Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, since the Federal Bureau of  Investigation launched the Crossfire Hurricane counterintelligence  investigation in July of 2016, there has been no shortage of media  coverage of Russia's involvement in our 2016 election. For the better  part of 3 years, there has been news; there has been speculation; there  have been rumors; there have been partisan accusations made about that  topic. 

  Trying to keep up with the names and the dates, the allegations left  you feeling like an old-school detective show--names and photos pinned  to a board, with strings of yarn connecting all the pieces. Everyone  expected the release of the special counsel's report to be the moment  when those dots were finally connected and it explained what happened  and who was responsible. 

  It is safe to say that did not happen. Even though the Mueller report  did not find any collusion or obstruction, there was a lot of  information that since has been made public about its origins, its  motivation, and the means by which that investigation occurred. In  fact, rather than settling the matter, these revelations have prompted  a whole new range of questions about the investigation itself. 

  First of all, we had Rod Rosenstein in the Judiciary Committee. He  was the Deputy Attorney General. I asked him whether he was aware of  any precedent for what happened in 2016 when, at the same time, both  major parties' political nominees for President of the United States  were the subject of open FBI investigations. He said: No, there is no  precedent for that. 

  First, of course, it was the Hillary email scandal, after which  Director Comey made another unprecedented move and had a press  conference saying that even though she had been essentially grossly  negligent in handling this private email server, he thought that no  reasonable prosecutor would bring charges against her. 

  As much as Secretary Clinton might have appreciated that  announcement, or not, a few weeks later, the FBI Director wrote another  letter and said: Hey, we have some Anthony Weiner emails that came up  on his laptop, so we need to reopen the investigation just a few days  before the general election. 

  Well, you can imagine Secretary Clinton didn't appreciate that. Many  people have said that it is because of the FBI's unprecedented  involvement in the middle of a Presidential election that it damaged,  if not decided, the election in 2016. 

  And then, of course, there is the Trump-Russia influence  investigation, better known as Crossfire Hurricane, leading up to the  Mueller investigation and where we are today. In the time since the  special counsel completed his investigation and issued his report more  than a year ago, we have learned more about the behind-the-scenes work  that guided the Russia probe. 

  Thanks to Inspector General Horowitz and his team at the Department  of Justice, thanks to the DNI, the Director of National Intelligence,  and others for declassifying important information, we have a whole lot  more insight and transparency into exactly what happened. But these  revelations have given all of us pause for grave concern. They have  highlighted a pattern of sloppiness and outright abuse of power at the  highest levels of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and beyond and  raised red flags that must be addressed. 

  In the Senate, it is our duty to get to the bottom of how and why  this happened. I can't imagine any Democrat, any Republican, any  American saying what happened in the 2016 election to Hillary Clinton  and to Donald Trump was OK. Our law enforcement agencies should not  play a starring role in an election leading up to the Nation's highest  office. 

  This morning, the first step in our investigation into the origins,  means, and methods of the Crossfire Hurricane investigation occurred in  the Judiciary Committee. That is where we heard from Deputy Attorney  General Rod Rosenstein. He wasn't the Deputy Attorney General until the  spring of 2017, but he did play a key role in the investigation. He  signed one of the applications for the Foreign Intelligence  Surveillance Act warrant that allowed the FBI to essentially surveil an  American citizen. He was the one who appointed Special Counsel Bob  Mueller. He ended up being not only an investigator but also a witness  in the process. 

  His account of what happened in the Crossfire Hurricane investigation  is important to understanding both the actions and the motivations that  drove that investigation. In fact, he said this morning, in response to  Chairman Lindsey Graham's question, if you knew then what you know now,  would you have signed, sworn to this verified application for a warrant  to surveil an American citizen, Carter Page? He said: No. To his  credit, he said no. ``If I knew then, what I know now.'' 

  Some of my greatest concerns stem from the Department of Justice  Inspector General's report about those FISA abuses, as they are  called--Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. This is extraordinary  authority given by Congress under very strict rules, and they are  supervised by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which was  established to provide oversight of these surveillance activities,  including surveillance of American citizens under very narrow and  restricted guardrails. 

  If the U.S. intelligence authorities, or law enforcement agencies,  believe surveillance is critical to a national security investigation,  they submit an application to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance  Court to receive that authorization. This is an important step in  protecting the rights of American citizens and making sure that our  intelligence and law enforcement authorities perform their job  consistent with congressional intent and direction. But these verified,  in other words, sworn documents are critical, in which accuracy is  paramount. That is why they are required to be verified--that is, sworn  to--by the top officials at the Department of Justice.  

  We now know that the applications of the former Trump campaign aide  Carter Page were riddled with errors. In the initial Carter Page FISA  application, Inspector General Horowitz identified what he called seven  mistakes. In the three renewals, he had found an additional 10. These  weren't necessarily honest mistakes. In fact, they included significant  and material errors, including the deliberate falsification, lying-- lying to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court about Carter  Page's past service to the U.S. Government. 

  To make matters worse, even as new and exculpatory material came to  light, this information was not reflected in renewal applications. It  was sort of a cut-and-paste job. Those agents who prepared those  materials that were signed by people like Rod Rosenstein lied to  deceive the court so they could continue to surveil, or spy, on an  American citizen--something we do not want to happen unless they are  truly an agent of a foreign power and there is probable cause to show  that they are such. 

  These revelations were very troubling in December of 2019, and they  are just as troubling today. It does also raise questions about the  motivations for the investigation, in the first place. Falsifying a  FISA application is clearly not an action one would take if you were in  pursuit of the truth. We need to know why the initial application and  three renewals were riddled with lies and omissions and how these  inaccurate applications were approved by high-ranking officials at the  Department of Justice. 

  Second, this raises serious questions about the way investigations of  average Americans are being handled. If these agents were able to break  every rule in the book to spy on a Presidential candidate--who  ultimately was elected--and are facing no consequences, no  accountability, what protections exist for the rest of us in America?  Who is going to notice their error-ridden FISA applications if it is  John or Jane Q. Public? 

  What is even more disconcerting is, if this happened once--and it did  happen more than once--what is to stop it from happening again? The  American people need and deserve answers to  these questions, and today's hearing in the Judiciary Committee was the  first step in getting the answers to those questions and hopefully  corrective action. 

  Chairman Graham has been clear that we will look at this  investigation from all angles--covering the FISA abuses, unmasking  requests, and the origins of both Crossfire Hurricane, and the  appointment of special counsel. 

  The trove of declassified transcripts that recently were released by  the House Intelligence Committee--actually, declassified by the  Director of National Intelligence--only underscores the important need  for oversight by the Senate and by the Congress. In reading these  transcripts, which were taken in secret, in a secure facility, and only  recently made public, I have been shocked at some of the statements  made by former Obama administration officials. 

  Based on the way Chairman Schiff repeatedly claimed to have direct  evidence, you would think these officials would provide the smoking gun  to the committee. But no--witness after witness confirmed they had no  evidence of collusion, coordination, or conspiracy between anyone in  the Trump campaign and Russia. What did they do? They walked outside of  that secure facility, and they spoke to the TV cameras assembled there,  and they lied. They misrepresented what was said during that classified  testimony. 

  This really begs the question: Why did this investigation begin and  how, without evidence, did it last for nearly 2 years? 

  Additionally, I have a lot of questions about the sloppy and  incomplete investigative work surrounding Crossfire Hurricane when it  came to the use of something called a confidential human source. 

  Christopher Steele, former intelligence officer from the United  Kingdom, was hired by Fusion GPS to do opposition research against the  Trump campaign for the Hillary Clinton campaign. Yet, at the same time,  he was considered by the FBI as a confidential human source. 

  Inspector General Horowitz's report makes clear Mr. Steele and his  FBI handler did not even agree on the terms of their arrangement.  Steele said: I am a businessman collecting information. The FBI said:  Well, this is just between us, and you can't talk to the public, which  he clearly did, and he did so at the same time he was supposed to be a  confidential human source. 

  The FBI background check into Christopher Steele was so sloppy, they  didn't even understand that his loyalties were not with the FBI and the  U.S. Government, they were with his paymaster--Fusion GPS, his  employer. That is one reason there were such inaccuracies throughout  this investigation, including in the FISA applications.  

  So we need answers, and we need accountability. Based on what I have  seen so far, one conclusion is that there was a coordinated effort to  manipulate our intelligence community and justice system for vindictive  and biased purposes against a Presidential candidate and elected  President of the United States. I realize that this is a grave and  serious charge, but I think it is one conclusion you could draw based  on what we know. 

  It is high time we learned the truth. If this kind of misbehavior and  deception becomes routine, it will jeopardize important legal  authorities that we rely on to protect our national security. It is  counter to our values and is a direct blow to the foundation of our  democracy. 

  I appreciate Chairman Graham's prioritizing these oversight hearings.  I know we have a lot of work to do in order to restore public  confidence in our justice system as well as in our intelligence  community--the people charged with protecting the American people. We  need to learn what really happened so we can make sure this never ever,  ever happens again. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT