Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, yesterday evening, Iran launched more than  a dozen ballistic missiles against military bases in Iraq, which house  U.S. troops. 

  After General Qasem Soleimani was killed in a targeted drone strike  late last week in an act of self-defense and to deter further  aggression against America and our allies, our forces were on high  alert for an Iranian attack. President Trump and our military leaders  emphasized that we would be prepared for whatever response Iran chose  to deliver, and by all accounts we were. 

  If the present circumstances hold, it appears that no U.S.  servicemembers were harmed during this attack last night by Iran, which  is the best outcome we could have hoped for. In addition, I am glad no  Iraqi troops appear to have been injured or killed in this strike as  well. 

  While the result of this provocation by Iran could have been a lot  worse, it does not diminish the fact that the world's leading state  sponsor of terrorism has a sophisticated and capable ballistic program.  We know that those capabilities only accelerated under the Joint  Comprehensive Plan of Action--the so-called nuclear deal during the  previous administration--as has the regime's pursuit of their nuclear  aspirations. 

  I am confident that this administration's maximum-pressure campaign,  combined with our unparalleled military capabilities, as well as the  President's decisive actions that have culminated in the airstrike last  week, have prevented a much worse outcome from this attack by Iran. 

  Last week, I had the opportunity to visit Strategic Command,  STRATCOM, in Omaha, NE, where their motto is ``strategic deterrence.''  I think that is an important goal to keep in mind; that is, having the  means and capabilities not only of hitting back but a message of  deterrence to our adversaries to dissuade them from initiating  hostilities in the first place. 

  President Ronald Reagan had his own notion of strategic deterrence.  He called it ``peace through strength.'' I believe that is something  the President's actions last week have begun to restore, no less a  luminary than former GEN David Petraeus, who said, after the Soleimani  attack, that perhaps--just perhaps--this would reestablish deterrence.  Indeed, based on the response by the Iranian regime last night, where  they obviously targeted uninhabited areas, and they wanted to save face  by showing that they were doing something to retaliate but not wanting  to escalate, I think General Petraeus is right on. What has happened,  to this point, is reestablishing some level of deterrence. 

  I applaud the President for speaking to the American people this  morning and making it clear that, under his watch, Iran will never ever  have a nuclear weapon. In my view, this is the single most important  policy objective for the United States and our allies in the Middle  East. 

  Deterrence through strength, combined with additional economic  sanctions, are designed to encourage and persuade the Iranian regime to  rejoin the community of nations, which will help pave the way for a  better way of life for the Iranian people and to give up these tools of  terror which have characterized the Iranian regime since 1979, since  the revolution--exporting that terror to other countries. There was no  one more responsible for doing that than General Soleimani, who was  taken out in an airstrike last week. 

  As we move forward, the United States and our allies can't turn back.  We can't relieve this maximum-pressure campaign, and we also must  remain cognizant of the dangers of creating power vacuums in the Middle  East. 

  I also hope our allies in Germany, France, and the United Kingdom  will work with us to persuade the U.N. to invoke the snapback  provisions under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action to restore  international sanctions and restrictions on the Iranian regime to  further persuade them to join us in negotiations, which will lead to a  better outcome for all. It will be helpful if our friends and allies in  the UK, France, and Germany will join us in that effort. 

  While the United States has not purposely sought out further conflict  that could lead to an unnecessary loss of life, we need to defend--we  must always defend American personnel and our interests in the Middle  East. 

  As the President has pointed out this morning, one of the things  that, historically, has given Presidents like Jimmy Carter the  determination to declare the blocking of the Strait of Hormuz as an act  of war during his administration was our overdependence on energy from  the Middle East. As the President pointed out this morning, thanks to  the creativity and innovation in places like Oklahoma, Texas, North  Dakota, and elsewhere, we are now largely energy independent and self- sufficient. We can now use this as a tool to engage other countries  that are completely dependent on countries like Russia, Iran, and  others in the Middle East for their energy needs. So this is changing  the geopolitics of the world. This is not just the President taking a  divisive action against the leading master of terrorism in the Middle  East; the geopolitics of the world have shifted, and I hope we will all  work together to take advantage of that. 

  As I said, I appreciate the President's courage and leadership. This  must have been no easy decision, to be sure. I continue to be proud of  our military leadership and the rank-and-file servicemembers who have  worked so hard to protect the United States and our national interests  in the Middle East and around the world.                            Senate Accomplishments  

  Mr. President, on another matter, I spoke last week on the Senate  floor about some of the great things that have been accomplished this  last year for our country, including my home State of Texas. 

  I pointed out that we notched a number of wins for the American  military as well as our veterans. We sent much needed assistance to  communities devastated by natural disasters, like Hurricane Harvey and  others. We confirmed more qualified judges to the Federal bench. We  invested heavily in securing America's elections from the sort of  interference we saw occur in the last Presidential election, and I am  proud to say we strengthened our fight to end the rape kit backlog.  

  We made strides, big and small, to improve the lives of the American  people, and I am eager to add more wins to that list this year. 

  Unfortunately, Congress is starting this year in a rather  inauspicious way, not designed to regain the confidence of the American  people and our ability to do what benefits them as opposed to  satisfying some partisan political interest. 

  High on that list of pretty embarrassing developments are the  Articles of Impeachment that the House passed. Three weeks after the  House said this urgent matter must be pushed through to protect the  country and defend the Constitution, Speaker Pelosi is still refusing  to send those Articles of Impeachment to the Senate, and we are  waiting. Now, I would be happy if she never sent the Articles of  Impeachment here and realizes the error of the House's ways, but I  don't expect that to happen. 

  In the meantime, we are going to continue to confirm well-qualified  nominees, as we are today, and hopefully we will be able to do work on  the USMCA--the U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement--which, as the  Presiding Officer knows, we voted out of the Senate Finance Committee  yesterday but which has to clear six other committees before it is  ready for floor action. Hopefully, we will be able to get that done  sooner rather than later. 

  With an impending impeachment trial consuming most of the oxygen here  in Washington, there is not a lot of opportunity, let alone political  will, to get actual legislating done. 

  There is a laundry list of bills we could add to our accomplishments  in 2020, but there is an opportunity cost when we are squandering our  time on this ill-considered impeachment mania. The time and effort we  are spending on that could well be used to pass these other pieces of  legislation, but these pieces of legislation wait in impeachment  purgatory. 

  At the top of my list this year is legislation to bring down  healthcare costs to the American people, particularly out-of-pocket  costs for prescription drugs--something I thought was a high priority  for Members on both sides of the aisle as well as the White House. 

  Over the summer, the Senate Judiciary, Finance, and Health,  Education, Labor, and Pensions Committees passed bipartisan bills which  deal with everything from high prescription drug prices to surprise  medical billing. While we knew there was still additional work that  needed to be done, everyone was somewhat optimistic that we could pass  some combination of these bills by the end of last year. Unfortunately,  that didn't happen. 

  Negotiations are continuing, but I had hoped we could make progress  on some noncontroversial bills in the meantime, like the one I  introduced to stop drugmakers from gaming the patent system. 

  I just read this morning that the manufacturer of HUMIRA, which is an  incredible drug and the most widely prescribed drug in America, is  raising their list price by 7 percent. This is a drug that has generic  competitors overseas, but they are not approved here in the United  States because HUMIRA has gamed the patent system by acquiring more  than 120 different patents on this drug, the same one that is being  sold cheaper and more widely available in Europe. 

  The bill I introduced with Mr. Blumenthal, the Senator from  Connecticut, to deal with that is called the Affordable Prescriptions  for Patients Act. It strikes a delicate balance of protecting  innovation while increasing competition. It would be a win for every  American who has felt the sticker shock at the pharmacy. This bill is a  modest bill, but it represents real progress. Bipartisan support--check  that box. I introduced this bill with Senator Blumenthal from  Connecticut, as I mentioned, and I am proud to have the support of the  minority whip as well as the ranking member of the Health, Education,  Labor, and Pensions Committee. This passed out of the Senate Judiciary  Committee unanimously. 

  Well, does it increase the deficit? No, it actually helps the  deficit, so we can check that box. The Congressional Budget Office  estimates the bill would save the government more than half a billion  dollars over the next decade, not to mention what it might do to  private insurance costs. 

  During simpler times, this bill would have been quickly approved by  the Senate and sent to the House for their consideration and the  President's signature. If we have learned anything these last few  years, it is that nothing is simple here in Congress or in Washington. 

  So, after waiting for months, I came to the Senate floor to ask that  the bill be passed. After all, it sailed through the process, and I  hadn't heard a single Senator with any substantive objection to the  bill. That is when the Democratic leader, the Senator from New York,  came down here to block it, and he did it not once but twice. He didn't  object on substance. In fact, he admitted it was a good bill. As I  said, it checks every box when it comes to good legislation, so it  certainly wasn't because it fell short there. 

  The only reason the Democratic leader objected to this legislation on  two separate occasions is because of politics. He has chosen to  participate in political games with a bill that is noncontroversial and  straightforward, which would stop Big Pharma from abusing the patent  system to increase their profits and increase prices to consumers. 

  At a time when he views his most critical priority as minority leader  to oppose the President and, in turn, Senate Republicans, he couldn't  stand to see a bill introduced by a Republican actually advance and  become law. I am sure his constituents in New York can't be too happy  about that because they are paying the high price of patent  gamesmanship too. I can guarantee you that Big Pharma is rejoicing over  his obstruction. 

  Well, as I said just this last week, big drug companies have already  begun to announce their price increases. According to their analysis,  445 different drugs have had their prices raised already by an average  of 5 percent, and we are only 1 week into the new year. 

  It is particularly maddening that even consensus legislation is  getting caught up in this hyperpartisan environment. But I am hoping  that, once this looming impeachment trial is behind us, we can find a  way to work together and make some progress. 

  Another bill that I am anxious to see pass this year is a  reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, which again has  gotten caught up in partisan gamesmanship. Last year the House passed  an ultrapartisan bill, which both parties knew would be dead on arrival  in the Senate. Our friends, the House Democrats, chose to include a  variety of poison pills in order to prove a point and perhaps gain some  political advantage rather than to actually get a bill to the  President's desk. 

  Well, that is where Senator Feinstein, the Senator from California,  and Senator Ernst, the Senator from Iowa, to their credit, tried long  and hard to try to come up with a bill that we could take up here on  the Senate floor, but all of a sudden, late in the game, our friends  across the aisle walked away from the negotiating table and chose to  introduce a near replica of the House's partisan piece of legislation. 

  Unfortunately, they succumbed to the politics of the moment rather  than solving the problem that would actually help support victims of  violence and reauthorize that legislation. Despite our Democratic  colleagues leaving those negotiations, though, our colleague from Iowa,  Senator Ernst, continued to work in good faith on a bill to reauthorize  the Violence Against Women Act, and I am proud to be a cosponsor. 

  I urge the majority leader to put that piece of legislation on the  floor and to do it at the earliest possible moment so that we can have  a vote, we can have a debate, we can offer amendments, but we can  actually get the job done rather than continuing to use this as a  political football. It sends more funding and resources than the bill  that the Democrats have proposed, and it authorizes the program for  twice as long. 

  It is not just an alternative; it is a better choice for victims of  sexual assault and violence. It includes a whole lot more than funding,  though. It addresses a number of horrific crimes that are being  committed against women and girls around the country, which are not  included in our Democrat colleagues' version. 

  I regret that we were unable to pass a reauthorization for the  Violence  Against Women Act, and I hope our colleagues across the aisle will  reconsider and come back to the negotiating table and work with us so  that we can finally reauthorize this program.                 United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement  

  Mr. President, finally, another priority that I alluded to a moment  ago that I hope we can get to soon is to pass the USMCA, the United  States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, which will succeed NAFTA and guide our  trading relationships with Mexico and Canada into the future. 

  NAFTA has been a boon for our economy--especially in my State, in  Texas--but it is time to bring this more than quarter-century-old  agreement into the 21st century. That is precisely what the USMCA will  do. It modernizes trade with our northern and southern neighbors and  lays the foundation for better economies, more jobs, and greater  prosperity for each of our countries. 

  The process of getting that bill across the Senate floor has been  more than a year in the making, but we are making some progress, as I  indicated, starting yesterday in the Senate Finance Committee. It was  reported out with a bipartisan vote of 25 for and 3 against. 

  I haven't been shy about expressing my concerns about how this  process has played out, especially cutting the Senate out of its  negotiating position under trade promotion authority, but I do believe,  on net, that this agreement is beneficial and will support it. 

  So I look forward to getting an opportunity, presumably once Speaker  Pelosi sends the Articles of Impeachment over here and it meets its  expected fate. Nobody I know expects 67 Senators to vote to convict and  to remove President Trump based on the thin gruel presented by the two  Articles of Impeachment that were voted on by the House in an  ultrapartisan manner. 

  Once we get past all of that, I hope we can continue along the series  of wins for our country in 2020, and I, for one, am eager to work on  that. I hope we will be able to chart a path forward on an impeachment  trial in the near future so that we can begin focusing on this  legislation that will help the American people over the next 12 months  and not squander a minute more than absolutely necessary. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT