Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, over the past couple of months, our  country has gone into a lockdown but then slowly but surely has begun  to adjust to the new normal brought on by COVID-19. 

  Many of us have been working safely from home, as kitchen tables have  been transformed into makeshift office spaces and, in many cases,  classrooms as parents and students navigate the challenges of remote  working and learning. But many of the most critical jobs in our country  can't be done with a laptop and an internet connection--defense  contractors, for example, the intelligence community, law enforcement  agencies, and, of course, our heroic healthcare workers. They have to  be on the frontlines doing their job each and every day no matter what  the risk is because their work is considered to be essential. 

  Our healthcare workers continue to fight this virus on the  frontlines, delivering lifesaving care and comfort to those isolated  from their loved ones. Our farmers and ranchers are producing the food,  truckers are transporting it, and grocery store employees are stocking  shelves so that amidst all of this uncertainty, we don't have to worry  about not having enough to eat. Then there are the postal workers, the  delivery drivers, the waste collectors, and an entire network of people  we depend on who are keeping the cogs of our society running. 

  Whether working from home or heading out the door each morning, these  men and women are doing their jobs, even when it isn't easy or  convenient, and they expect their elected officials to do the same  thing. 

  Just because a pandemic has brought our society to a screeching halt  doesn't mean the U.S. Congress should pack up shop. Just as the men and  women across the country continue to show up for work each day,  Congress should do the same. After all, our responsibilities during  this crisis have become more important, not less. That is why we moved  quickly to pass four coronavirus response bills, totaling nearly $3  trillion--something none of us imagined we would do just a couple of  months ago--and provided vital support for our country amidst so much  uncertainty. 

  This, of course, came in the form of additional resources, including  equipment for our healthcare workers and funding for ongoing research  into vaccines and treatments. We also sent aid for what I consider to  be a lifeline to those workers who, through no fault of their own, had  no job and no paycheck, and then we have also provided serious  resources to help small businesses and their workforce stay afloat. 

  A financial investment in our fight against this virus was  desperately needed, and that is precisely what we delivered on a  bipartisan basis, but our response to this crisis cannot begin and end  with blank checks. We need to ensure that taxpayer dollars are being  spent responsibly and that we are making the changes needed to recover  from this crisis. 

  Every day I hear--usually through a videoconference--my constituents  in Texas telling me how these bills are being implemented, what is  helpful, what isn't, and what is needed from Congress. This feedback  has been incredibly valuable as we look for more effective ways to  strengthen our response and speed our recovery. So the Republicans in  the Senate believe it is wise--it is prudent--to take stock of  everything we have done before passing another relief bill. 

  I believe the Presiding Officer and I heard the same report at lunch  today; that only about half of the money that we have appropriated is  actually out the door, and yet here people are clamoring for more and  more money. And Speaker Pelosi, in really an unfortunate act of  showmanship, rammed through a $3 trillion bill that has no prayer of  being passed or becoming law. It is safe to say that House Democrats  are taking a different approach than we are here in the Senate.  

  They passed the $3 trillion bill, and they call it the HEROES Act,  expressing their support for our Nation's healthcare heroes. We would  join them in that sentiment, but the fact is, their priorities are much  different. This bill mentions cannabis more times than it mentions  doctors, hospitals, and nurses combined. It is an interesting tribute,  if you ask me. 

  If this bill were to become law, taxpayers' money wouldn't be going  to coronavirus response; they would be funding a range of completely  unrelated pet projects like environmental justice grants, soil health  studies, and not one, but two studies on diversity and inclusion-- again, in the cannabis industry. It is interesting: two more studies on  diversity and inclusion in the cannabis industry. The list of  absurdities in this legislation is as big as this bill itself. 

  Here is another one. They want to make sure that the wealthiest  Americans pay less in taxes. This is from our Democratic friends who  say that the top 1 percent don't pay enough, yet they present them with  a huge tax cut for the wealthiest people in America. 

  It also would complicate the hiring that our struggling businesses  are already facing and rapidly dig our Nation deeper and deeper into  debt. Is this all to attack the coronavirus, to come up with a  treatment or a vaccine? No. This is a liberal wish list that has  consumed all the time and energy of House Democrats over the last  several weeks. This is what they think is more important. 

  Rather than returning to Washington for more than a drive-by, which  is what they did last Friday, to work on bipartisan legislation that  might actually have a chance of becoming law, they chose to put  together this partisan bill without consulting with the White House or  the Senate. It doesn't address the crisis at hand, let alone the  national security challenges that cannot be ignored. 

  The threats we faced before this virus ever reached our shores, both  on land and in cyber space, have not gone away. From Beijing to Tehran,  Moscow to Pyongyang, and in nearly every corner of the globe, our  enemies and adversaries are watching and continuing their efforts to  work against our interests. They are not going to politely pause their  efforts so that we can focus our efforts on COVID-19; if anything, they  are doubling their efforts. We cannot afford to be caught flat-footed. 

  Unfortunately, our counterintelligence and counterterrorism experts  are already without some of the key tools they need in order to carry  out their duties. In mid-March, the House refused to vote on a clean,  short-term extension of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act under  section 215 that would preserve these tools while we discuss long-term  changes that might need to be made. Had they agreed at that time in  mid-March, these authorities would still be intact through the end of  this month. Instead, House Democrats chose to let those authorities  lapse. For 2 months now, our counterintelligence and counterterrorism  experts have been forced to work without some of the most powerful  tools in their toolboxes. 

  Fortunately, last week, the Senate was able to pass a bill to  reauthorize these critical provisions that expired in mid-March. This  legislation would not only restore those authorities but  strengthen oversight of our Nation's intelligence activities at a time  when it is desperately needed. 

  This bill passed the Senate with broad bipartisan support, but we are  still waiting for the House to show up for work and to take it up and  pass it. They are not coming back until the 27th, I think, of this  month, after what can only aptly be described as a drive-by vote last  Friday after not having been in town for 2 weeks and leaving promptly  thereafter. 

  Now that they have completed their work on their $3 trillion wish  list, I hope we will see some action soon on things that will keep our  country safe. 

  That is only part of the critical national security work we have done  here in the Senate since we returned to Washington earlier this month. 

  I applaud Majority Leader McConnell for bringing us back. People are  hearing all sorts of scary things on social media and cable news and  even conscious disinformation campaigns by some of our adversaries  about this virus and about how we ought to conduct ourselves. The best  thing we can do as Members of the Senate is to demonstrate that with a  little bit of personal responsibility and respect for others-- maintaining social distancing, masking when you can--we can actually  still function. We can show up for work like those healthcare workers,  those law enforcement officers, and others I mentioned a moment ago. 

  One of the things our majority leader likes to say is that the Senate  is in the personnel business. Today, we confirmed a fellow member of  the Texas congressional delegation, Congressman John Ratcliffe, to be  the Director of National Intelligence. I have known John for about 10  years--or more maybe. He is prepared to continue the legacy of  outstanding leadership we have come to expect and count on in our  Director of National Intelligence. I am confident in his ability to  serve as a leader and advocate for the intelligence professionals in  the intelligence community. 

  We also confirmed other important nominees for critical positions,  including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the National  Counterintelligence and Security Center, and the Department of Homeland  Security. Just as the work of the country has waged on in the face of  these challenges, so must our work. 

  The American people are not just counting on healthcare workers and  first responders and farmers and deliverymen and grocery store  employees to do their jobs--as important as they are. They are counting  on us, too, not only to continue to respond to this pandemic--to stay  nimble and adapt, to watch and listen and learn on how we can do  better--but also to strengthen our national security, keep an eye on  our national debt, and do it all on a bipartisan basis. 

  Like workers across America, Congress needs to show up, especially  when it isn't easy or convenient. This pandemic may have temporarily  halted the daily functions of many people in this country, but it  cannot stop the critical work of the U.S. Congress on behalf of the  people we are privileged to represent. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT