Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, the Senate was gaveled out about 6 weeks  ago now. We passed the $2.2 trillion CARES Act on March 25, and here it  is May 4. Since that time, the global battle to defeat the coronavirus  has only intensified. 

  There have been some who questioned the wisdom of the Senate coming  back to Washington and convening, but I think we need to be here, and  we need to do our jobs. We know how to do this safely. We know how to  social distance. We know how to wash our hands and not touch our face.  Those are the responsibilities each of us bear to one another not to  spread this virus. 

  But if there is such a thing as essential and nonessential workers-- and I don't think that distinction is one we should discuss because 26  million Americans are not nonessential workers; they are absolutely  essential to our economy and to our way of life. But, make no mistake,  self-government is essential under any construction, under any  definition of that word. 

  Our system was not made to run on autopilot, so it is appropriate  that we show up and that we do our job and we protect the American  people and do everything we can to defeat this virus from a public  health standpoint but also to do what is necessary to maintain a  lifeline to the economy and the workers who are an essential component  of it so that, when we defeat this virus, we will be prepared for  people to go back to work in full and keep our economy and jobs growing  again. 

  We know that about 3.5 million cases have been confirmed worldwide,  and roughly a third of these cases are here in the United States.  Tragically, we have lost 65,000 Americans to this cruel virus, but,  heroically, our healthcare workers have been on the job each and  every day--like law enforcement and grocery clerks--doing their part to  help provide us the healthcare, the law enforcement, and the food that  is feeding our families. 

  We know, for weeks on end, our doctors and nurses and first  responders have put themselves in harm's way to save the lives of those  who have been affected by COVID-19. They are offering more than  lifesaving care. These men and women are a hand to hold, a friendly  voice, and a source of comfort to patients isolated from friends and  family because of this cruel disease. Our heroic healthcare workers are  physically and mentally exhausted from this fight. Yet they continue to  serve, day in and day out. 

  I want to express my gratitude, and I know I speak for others when I  say thank you for the heart that you have put into your job and for the  sacrifices you have made, spending time away from your families so that  you can help ours. 

  At the same time, we are seeing tremendous progress in a race to  develop both treatments and a vaccine. While there are plenty of  reasons to be optimistic about how this story ends, I know a lot of  work remains to be done. In addition to the physical toll this virus  has taken on the American people, it has wreaked economic havoc 

  In order to slow the spread of the coronavirus, stores and  restaurants have closed their doors, travel plans have been abandoned,  events have been canceled, and millions of Americans were suddenly  without a way to earn a living. In the past 6 weeks, 30 million  Americans have filed for unemployment--an absolutely staggering figure. 

  So far, Congress has passed four separate bills to address this  crisis from a public health standpoint as well as to ease its economic  impact. We have provided billions of dollars in funding to support our  hospitals, increase testing capacity, and ramp up the production and  acquisition of the personal protective equipment our medical workers  rely upon as well as the ventilators that many of the COVID-19 patients  will need. 

  We have provided unprecedented assistance for America's small  businesses, which employ about half of America's workers. The Paycheck  Protection Program has enabled small businesses to keep their employees  on the payroll and cover expenses until the smoke clears. 

  We have also sent vital funding to our State and local governments-- about $150 billion. We provided relief to student loan borrowers and  sent financial assistance to the American people in the form of direct  payments from the IRS. 

  Members of Congress came together to act quickly and decisively to  address this pandemic, and I am very proud of the work that we have  done together so far. 

  Over the past several weeks, like every Senator, I have had the  privilege of speaking with my constituents all across the State of  Texas about the impact of this virus as well as Congress's response. I  have spoken to doctors, nurses, and hospital administrators about the  strain on the personnel and the need for personal protective equipment. 

  I have talked to small business owners across the State about their  growing list of expenses and the lifeline that the PPE provided. 

  I have listened to our mayors and county judges, from our biggest  cities and smallest towns, who have talked about the mounting financial  burdens they are facing. I have talked with our farmers and ranchers  about the impact on everything from cattle to cotton and the need to  protect our food supply chain. 

  I am grateful for the men and women I have spoken with who have  shared their perspective and feedback about Congress's response to the  coronavirus. 

  Anytime a piece of legislation moves this quickly, as these bills  did, and are this big, there are bound to be gaps that need to be  filled, mistakes that need to be corrected, tweaks that need to be  applied. The Texans to whom I have spoken over these past several weeks  have pointed out some of those gaps and provided ideas for the  discussions we are now having about what comes next. 

  A few weeks ago, I spoke with representatives from the Texas Council  on Family Violence, the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault, and  more than a dozen organizations across the State that support survivors  of domestic violence. 

  When you think about the impact of the pandemic or any other major  crisis, for that matter, domestic violence isn't typically one of the  first issues that comes to mind, but the circumstances we are facing  today make these cases all too common. People are spending more time  isolated at home. They are dealing with a new range of stresses brought  on by this virus--more time with their partner, financial struggles,  teaching their children at home--and it is taking a devastating toll. 

  When Texas's stay-at-home order was first announced, many  organizations saw a spike in their hotline calls. What is more  frightening, once these orders were in place, the number of calls took  a sharp decline. In Tarrant County, which is where Fort Worth is  located, call numbers dropped by almost half. 

  With so much time isolated at home with an abuser, it may be more  difficult to reach out to friends or family or contact the National  Domestic Violence Hotline for assistance. When deciding whether to  leave, to go to a shelter, there is also the risk of the virus itself,  and many are faced with a lose-lose scenario: Do you continue living  under the same roof as your abuser or do you go to a shelter where you  or your children may come in contact with the virus? 

  These are not the only silent victims of this crisis. The fear and  anxiety brought on by this pandemic has taken a toll on America's  mental health. Most of us have never gone through something like this.  Maybe none of us has gone through something quite like this. Our daily  routines have been turned on their head. Isolated from friends and  family and between social media and a 24-hour news cycle, it can be  difficult to find a way to escape the constant barrage of bad news and  anxiety. 

  Compounding the problem even further is the financial strain on many  of the providers who support these individuals. A recent survey of  providers by the National Council for Behavioral Health showed that  more than 60 percent of mental health providers have already been  forced to close one or more programs--60 percent--and 62 percent of  providers cannot survive more than 3 months without emergency financial  assistance. 

  As we continue working to help the American people through this  difficult time, we cannot forget those who are suffering in silence. We  have a big job ahead of us. That is why it is so important that we are  here doing our job on behalf of the 330 million people in this country. 

  I returned back to the Senate with a long list of ideas and feedback  from the Texans who have been generous enough to spend time talking  with me over the past few weeks. I know all 100 Members of the Senate  are in a similar position, and I hope we can retain the same sense of  bipartisanship that has guided us through the legislation we have  passed so far. 

  If we are going to win this fight--and we will--it will not be  because of a Republican idea or a Democratic one; it will be because  every single person in this Chamber checked their political priorities  at the door and responded together--united--to confront and defeat this  virus and to help restore our economy and the jobs that go along with  it. 

  We have done it before. Let's do it again. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT