Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, like other Senators, around this time of  the year, I am used to being with folks from home who are traveling to  Washington, DC. Between spring break trips and industry fly-ins, spring  is normally a very busy season here at the Capitol. I always look  forward to seeing both new and familiar faces and spending time with my  constituents and talking about the challenges they are facing and the  changes they would like to see coming out of Congress. 

  Yet, as we all know, this is not a typical springtime in Washington.  Normally busy sidewalks and hallways are largely empty, as our  constituents hunker down at home while we continue working to get them  the help they need. Just as Texans have adopted new routines to meet  social distancing requirements, so have I, as have all of us. 

  I know I am not alone among my colleagues when I say that over the  last few weeks, I have logged some serious hours on phone calls and  video conferences with folks across Texas. Actually, I have been a  little bit surprised at how efficient it is in terms of reaching large  numbers of people, and I think it will probably change some of the ways  we work here and some of the ways we act with our constituents here in  the future. 

  I spoke with those in the medical field about the ongoing challenges  to our frontline healthcare workers, the progress toward developing a  vaccine, antibody tests, and the like. 

  I have talked with the Texas Farm Bureau, our farmers and ranchers,  our grocery store workers, and our food bank employees about the need  to make sure that all Texans can access the food they need, especially  during a time like this. 

  I have talked with mayors, county judges, and other leaders in our  communities about the work they are doing. 

  I was listening to our friend and colleague from Connecticut who  believes that the response needs to be coming out of Washington and  that we all need to simply fall in line according to the dictates of  the national government. Well, it raises interesting questions about  the Constitutional Convention and the agreement to have a Federal  system, not a national system. We have sovereign States that have their  own sphere of responsibility. Our cities and counties are best able, in  my view, to respond to local conditions. 

  Rather than a command and control response, what we have had in Texas  and I dare say in most other places has been a collaborative approach.  Working with the national government to provide the resources and some  of the guidance is very important. But our Governors, who control the  National Guard, which has come out to help do testing, help stock food  banks, and help build temporary hospital facilities, and our mayors and  county judges and local officials have really done an outstanding job.  I am very proud of the work they have done. We haven't just taken  orders on high from the Federal Government; we worked together, hand in  glove, with the Federal Government. 

  Of course, I talked to countless small business owners across our big  cities and small towns and everywhere in between about the financial  strain caused by the pandemic, and it is significant, to say the least.  Many, of course, were forced to close their doors or dramatically scale  back their operations, and many have had to make hard decisions to stay  afloat. 

  I was just emailing with a friend of mine in Dallas who has ownership  in a company that just declared chapter 11 bankruptcy. Our small  businesses are the heart and soul of our communities. They are our  favorite locally owned restaurants; the florists we call upon on  anniversaries, birthdays, and other holidays; the drycleaners, the  barbershops, the gyms, the pharmacies--all the places we have been  going for years. They feel like an extended part of our family. They  are part of what make our communities unique, and they are a huge  driver of our economy.  

  In Texas and across the country, small businesses employ nearly 50  percent of the local workforce. For many of these workers, the closures  and cancellations brought on by the coronavirus have put their  livelihoods in jeopardy, with many losing some or all of their income  and many, their jobs entirely. 

  As the Senate was working on our third response package back in  March, we knew that without a serious investment in our small  businesses, the result would be catastrophic. That is why we created  the Paycheck Protection Program through the CARES Act to provide cash  flow assistance for our small businesses. As we know, those low- interest loans can be used to cover everything from payroll, to supply  chain disruptions, to rent or mortgage. And if the employers are able-- I underline the word ``able''--if they are able to keep their employees  on the payroll until June, then much of those loans can be turned into  grants. 

  During my calls and video conferences with chambers of commerce and  small business owners throughout Texas, I have been able to talk about  the benefits of these loans and how to access them. Small Business  Administration staff have joined me on dozens of these calls to answer  technical questions about the loan program and other types of  assistance offered by the SBA, which has been really valuable and  appreciated by everyone. 

  Small businesses in my State have jumped at the opportunity to take  advantage of the PPP loans and start talking with their banks and  gathering up paperwork and going through the formal application  process. 

  As we know now, it became quickly obvious how popular the PPP program  was and that it would exceed the funding levels after 2 weeks. That  indicates the kind of demand and the kind of need and that our response  was actually hitting the target. But after 2 weeks, the first $350  billion was exhausted and depleted. From that first $350 billion,  135,000 small businesses in Texas received loans--more than any other  State. That program brought approximately $28.5 billion to Texas small  businesses and protected thousands of jobs. 

  Well, we know, after a little bit of jockeying back and forth with  the House, Congress finally replenished the Paycheck Protection Program  with an additional $320 billion, and that money is flying out the door  as we speak.  

  You don't have to look far to see why this program is so popular. 

  Valerie Gonzalez-Handly owns Delicious Tamales in my hometown of San  Antonio. Like other restaurants across the country, her business  struggled as the stay-at-home orders were put in place. Delicious  Tamales closed for 2 weeks last month but was able to reopen because of  the $232,000 loan they received through the Paycheck Protection  Program. All 38 employees returned to work. Valerie called the Paycheck  Protection Program a ``life saver.'' 

  For patients at a clinic in Tyler, TX--another PPP loan recipient-- these loans could be a literal life saver. Bethesda Health Clinic  provides healthcare services to low-income and uninsured Texans in the  Tyler area. The clinic doesn't receive State or Federal funding, and  one-third of their budget comes from the Hangers of Hope thrift stores  they operate, which were forced to close. The clinic had to furlough  their employees in order to survive the financial squeeze but was able  to take advantage of the Paycheck Protection Program. Krysti McWha is  the chief financial and operations officer, and she said this has  erased a lot of worry for the clinic and allowed the furloughed  employees to return to work. It has also enabled them to continue to  serve the public during a time of heightened healthcare concerns. 

  The Paycheck Protection Program has been vital to Texas small  businesses and I dare say to the Nation's small businesses. I am glad  Congress, working together as we should during a time of national  emergency, was able to provide this lifeline and replenish these funds  when they ran dry. 

  That is not to say, though, that this program has been implemented  without a hitch. When you do something this big and this fast, there  are bound to be some hiccups. We expected there would be these small  holes and gaps in what was needed, and over the last few weeks, those  have become pretty clear. 

  One of those issues is the tax deductible expenses for the businesses  that take advantage of these loans. Businesses are normally able to  deduct wages and other business expenses from their taxable income, but  the notice issued by the IRS said small businesses cannot deduct these  expenses, which is exactly the opposite of what we intended to do. Just  to give an idea of how harmful this could be, if a small business's  payroll during the 8-week period covered by a loan were $100,000, that  amount could not be deducted as a business expense when they file their  taxes. 

  Our goal with this legislation was to help--not hurt--to help small  businesses remain solvent and keep their employees on the payroll so  they can recover from this pandemic as soon as possible and be ready  for what I hope is a v-shaped bounceback in our economy once we defeat  this virus. We certainly didn't intend to make next year's tax season a  nightmare or to add to the burdens of these small businesses. Yet,  based on the IRS's guidance, that is the path we are headed down. 

  We have to right this wrong. Yesterday, I introduced the bipartisan  Small Business Expense Protection Act with the chairman and ranking  member of the Finance Committee, Senator Grassley and Senator Wyden,  along with Senator Rubio, who chairs the Small Business Committee, and  Senator Carper, who serves, as I do, on the Finance Committee. This  legislation will clarify that small businesses can still deduct  expenses that were paid for with a forgiven paycheck protection loan  from their taxes. Without this clarification, small businesses will be  up the creek without a paddle when they file their taxes next year. 

  This program was created to reduce the financial barriers our small  businesses are trying to overcome, not to add more. This bipartisan  bill has already received support of the American Institute of CPAs-- certified public accountants--and is critical to ensuring America's  small businesses receive the full benefits intended by Congress in the  Paycheck Protection Program. 

  As we continue to provide relief for America's workers and small  businesses, it is critical that this fix be included. Texas small  businesses saw the Paycheck Protection Program as a lifeline during  this incredibly challenging time. Let's not make them regret grabbing  ahold of it. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT