Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, let me join our friend and my friend,  the Senator from South Dakota, and say that I am glad to be back in  this Chamber doing the work of 29 million Texans. I see the Presiding  Officer and my partner, my fellow Senator from Texas, joining us as  well. 

  I was listening closely to the Senator from South Dakota's recitation  of all the things we have to do. There is no shortage of work for us to  do, and there is no reason for us to continue to curl up in a fetal  position in some undisclosed location and be afraid to go outdoors. 

  The fact is, the experts at the Centers for Disease Control, people  like Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx, whom we have seen on TV on a nightly  basis, tell us what we need to do in order to function safely. It is  the same thing that our grocery clerks and our doctors and nurses and,  frankly, our law enforcement personnel are doing. We know how to do  this and how to do it safely. 

  At the same time, we simply cannot hide out and not show up for work.  What kind of message does that send to the American people? 

  We know this is an extraordinary crisis, an unprecedented crisis, and  we have done some things we would never consider doing under normal  times--appropriating more than $3 trillion at warp speed. I, frankly,  think it is a good time for us to tap the brakes and to consider what  it is we have already done and where we need to make some corrections. 

  Anytime you do anything this big and this fast, you are going to make  some mistakes. We have seen that, and there have been corrections both  in terms of the way the Treasury is administering the program, but also  we have heard about gaps. For example, I have done a number of video  conferences with our chambers of commerce around the country, and they  ask me: Why did you leave the chambers out of the support under the  Paycheck Protection Program for nonprofits? I, frankly, don't have a  good answer for that. I said that is something we need to go back and  fix. If we can't do it by Treasury guidance, then we need to do it by  future legislation. 

  I have no doubt we will continue to legislate, but we need to do it  smartly. We need to be here in person so we can have the interaction  and deliberation and debates that are so important to coming up with a  good product. 

  We have done some pretty extraordinary work in the last 6 weeks or  so. Both Chambers have come together and quickly passed four separate  pieces of legislation to strengthen our response to the coronavirus. 

  We sent vital funding to our hospitals. Ironically, at a time when  our hospitals were the frontline of defense dealing with people with  COVID-19, many of them were laying off employees because we had asked  them to forgo elective surgery, which is one of the ways that they end  up paying the bills. 

  Then we learned, in the global competition for personal protective  equipment, literally every mayor, every Governor, every President,  every leader of every country around the world was in a global rush to  try to come up with personal protective equipment. 

  One of the things I have told my constituents and friends that I  think we have learned is we can't depend on China and on these  uncertain supply chains for things as important as personal protective  equipment--or pharmaceuticals, for that matter. So these are some of  the lessons and some of the feedback we have gotten as we have  interacted with our constituents. 

  We know that testing has gotten much more widespread, and we have  made tremendous advances in terms of treatment with all the clinical  trials that are underway--well over 70 of them--and now the hope of a  vaccine, hopefully sooner rather than later. Once we get a vaccine,  then hopefully this will be relegated to the same status as the  seasonal flu, for which we typically do have a vaccine, so the  particularly vulnerable individuals--the elderly, people with  underlying chronic disease--can be protected first and foremost. 

  We also sent funding to our State and local Governors: $150 billion.  Now, we have all talked to our mayors and our county judges--in Texas,  that is what we call our county leaders--and Governors. Obviously, the  sales tax revenue has fallen off a cliff because there is not much  business going on in our retail stores, to be sure, although there is a  lot going on online with deliveries and those sorts of orders. 

  But we know our State and local governments provide for law  enforcement and other essential services, so we felt it was important  to throw them a lifeline, too, to help them meet their budgets and  maintain those vital services. 

  Perhaps the most ambitious and the most popular thing we did is to  try to help our small businesses stay afloat through the Paycheck  Protection Program. Obviously, this was successful--or it is certainly  popular in that $350 billion was spent in 2 weeks. Then we had to come  back and replenish that with another $320 billion. But we know that  money is flying out of our local community banks and credit unions,  helping small businesses keep their employees on the payroll. And, if  they do that, then this low-interest loan will turn into a grant. 

  The goal, of course, is, once we defeat this virus--as we will--we  will then be in a position for those businesses to bring their  employees back, if they have furloughed them, to help us build out of  this recession in which we are currently involved. 

  We also provided critical funding for our farmers and ranchers and  other producers so they can keep our country fed. We have taken  unprecedented steps to minimize the impact of this virus on the  American people and our economy and tried to provide some modicum of  certainty amid so much uncertainty. 

  I don't think there is a single event in my lifetime that rivals the  breadth and depth of the crisis that we have reached. Certainly, 9/11  was a different type of crisis. The 2008 great recession--with the  meltdown of the banks on Wall Street and the great recession, those  were significant events to be sure, but nothing quite has rivaled what  the coronavirus has done to our public health and to our economy.  

  The cascading consequences of this virus have reached every  community, every sector of our economy, and every corner of the globe.  Every single American has experienced some sort of shift in their daily  routine as a result of the virus. Maybe ``shift'' is too tentative a  word. Actually, many of us have had our lives turned on their head. 

  For some, the changes were very significant. Think about those who  contracted the virus, the loved ones who couldn't be at their side, the  healthcare workers who were there and are helping them, those who are  sick. Then there are billions of Americans who have lost their jobs,  small business owners wondering whether they are going to cease to  exist and whether they can survive this current crisis, and then the  farmers seeing a glut of supply and reduced demand. 

  Now, many people have been able to safely work from home, and that is  wonderful, but often they end up pulling double duty as teachers for  their children with the schools having been closed, and others have  continued heading out to work every day to keep the cogs of our society  running--so-called essential workers. 

  By the way, I really don't like the designation between essential and  nonessential. I think, really, what we ought to call it is safe and  unsafe because all workers are, I believe, essential. 

  In ways big and small, this virus has affected everybody in this  country. While we must continue working to slow the spread and reduce  the economic impact, we cannot ignore the profound human impact it has  had. Many people have been isolated under very difficult circumstances,  not knowing whether they will still have a job to go back to. Many are  living with the uncertainty of this pandemic, perhaps in a crowded  house or apartment with children, maybe elderly parents and others, cut  off from the rest of society. 

  It is no secret that this pandemic is taking a toll on America's  mental  health. Last weekend, the family of a New York City emergency room  doctor released some devastating news. Dr. Lorna Breen had been in the  trenches battling this virus for weeks. She was working long hours, as  many of our healthcare providers are, and told her family about the  devastation that she was seeing every day. 

  She contracted COVID-19 and took a week and a half off to recover,  but then she went back to work, eager to help where she could. Shortly  after, Dr. Breen's family intervened and brought her home to  Charlottesville, VA, to rest and to spend a little time with her family  and for R&R. 

  Sadly, tragically, the struggles Dr. Breen was facing felt untenable.  After overcoming COVID-19, she ultimately took her own life by suicide. 

  Dr. Breen was a hero who devoted her entire life to caring for  others, to putting others before herself. While her tragic death cannot  be reversed, it should serve as a warning signal about the broader  impact of this virus. 

  In a recent poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation, nearly half of  Americans reported that coronavirus is having a negative impact on  their mental health--one-half. That is up from one-third in March. The  number of texts to the Federal Disaster Distress Helpline skyrocketed  in April--more than a 1,000-percent increase. 

  As we continue to discuss what future coronavirus legislation could  look like, we cannot ignore the mental health impact. Nationwide, we  rely on the community mental health centers and community behavioral  health organizations to support those battling mental health and  substance abuse disorders. As the need for these services has  increased, resources have actually decreased. More than 90 percent of  the community behavioral health organizations nationwide have been  forced to reduce their operations--reduce their operations at a time of  increased need and demand--and more than 60 percent of behavioral  health organizations project they can't survive financially for more  than 3 months under the current COVID-19 conditions. 

  Congress tried to do something to help. We provided $175 billion for  the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund to support  healthcare providers on the frontlines of this crisis. As this funding  is being distributed, mental health providers cannot be forgotten. 

  Along with 24 of our colleagues, Senator Stabenow and I have sent a  letter to Secretary Azar and Administrator Verma, urging them to  quickly allocate this funding and ensure that these mental health  organizations are included. Not only do they provide vital care and  support for individuals struggling with mental health issues; they also  are key to fighting addiction and substance abuse 

  Those struggling to overcome addiction are often living in a fragile  state, fighting each day to stay the course, but the current  circumstances have made those daily battles much more difficult. They  are isolated from their friends and loved ones, and they are dealing  with the anxiety caused by the virus and possibly--probably--facing  financial struggles. 

  The new stressors brought on by this virus are compounded by reduced  capacity for treatment. In-person support meetings are canceled,  treatment clinics and counselors are curtailing appointments, and the  barriers to overcoming addiction loom even larger. For those  individuals, treatment cannot simply be delayed. 

  Our country has made serious inroads in our battle against the opioid  epidemic. In 2018, overdose deaths were down 4 percent from the  previous year, the first decrease in nearly three decades. We can't let  the coronavirus derail the progress we have fought so hard to make. 

  The CARES Act--I am glad to say--does expand access to telehealth. I  think many Americans are experiencing the benefits of telehealth, and I  predict at some point this will change a lot of the ways that we  receive consultation by healthcare providers: not having to drive our  car and make appointments, pay for parking, spend a lot of time out of  our day. We can simply do it through video conference, conveniently and  effectively. But more must be done to support those battling addiction  and mental health challenges. 

  For those who are transitioning from the criminal justice system, the  need for additional resources and support is especially dire. Earlier  this year, Senator Blumenthal and I introduced the Crisis Stabilization  and Community Reentry Act to support those who have been a part of the  criminal justice system and to provide stable treatment for those with  mental illness. 

  Most prisoners who are receiving treatment for a mental health or a  substance use disorder are released without a plan to keep them on  their regimen. This often leads to higher recidivism rates,  unsurprisingly, which could be avoided. It also means that law  enforcement is, all too often, left to be the first responders for  those suffering a mental health crisis, which can escalate those  confrontations and put both the officer and the individual in that  crisis at risk. 

  This bill creates grants to connect law enforcement, State and local,  and community resources to help individuals who are either engaged in  the criminal justice system or have been released from prison and makes  it possible for them to access the resources they need to have a  successful reentry into civilized society. These grants connect those  services to make sure that people suffering from an acute episode can  access treatment without the risk of being reincarcerated. 

  We are facing a battle unlike any we have seen in my lifetime, and  the stress and the anxiety that come with it are taking a tremendous  toll on the American people. It is not just the virus and the threat of  catching the virus that are taking the toll. We need to look at this  holistically and realize, if you are a victim of domestic violence and  you are forced to be confined with your abuser and have nowhere else to  go and maybe have no money coming in the front door, only to have your  abuser abusing alcohol and perhaps becoming even more violent--there  are a whole catalog of problems associated with this virus and the  virus itself, the risk of infection being just one, and we need to look  at this holistically. 

  As our discussions continue this week on how to support the American  people during this unprecedented time, resources for mental health and  substance abuse treatment providers cannot fall by the wayside. 

  (Mr. CRUZ assumed the Chair.)    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT