Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, this week, the Senate will vote on two  bills that will protect our most vulnerable citizens--literally, our  babies. The first bill we will vote on is the Born-Alive Abortion  Survivors Protection Act, which was introduced by our colleague from  Nebraska, Senator Sasse. 

  This legislation is simple and straightforward. It requires  physicians and healthcare providers to treat babies who survive an  abortion with the same lifesaving care that other infants born at the  same stage receive. While you might be forgiven for wondering, why  would we need such a bill; surely, that standard must already exist in  our law--unfortunately, no. There are no Federal laws requiring  healthcare providers to care for abortion survivors, just as they would  for any other infant in their care. 

  One of the most notorious reasons why we need this law sits in the  Governor's mansion in Virginia. About this time last year, our country  was shocked and outraged by comments made by Gov. Ralph Northam--a  pediatrician, believe it or not--about what should happen when a baby  is delivered and survives an abortion. He said:  

       The infant would be delivered. The infant would be kept       comfortable. The infant would be resuscitated if that's what       the mother and family desired. And then a discussion would       ensue between the physicians and the mother.  

  Rather than immediately doing everything possible to save the baby,  to provide the same sort of care he would to any infant, he wants to  sit around and decide whether the baby will live or die. That is not  healthcare; that is infanticide. Voting for the Born-Alive Abortion  Survivors Protection Act is how each Member of this Chamber can go on  record to say they are against killing innocent babies. 

  While some are desperately trying to paint this as an anti-abortion  bill, which would infringe on women's reproductive rights, those claims  could not be further from the truth. There is nothing in this bill  about limiting access to abortion, no mention of first, second, or  third trimester abortions, nothing about overturning Roe v. Wade. 

  There is one goal with this legislation and one goal only: to give  every baby a fighting chance. In a rational world, we wouldn't be  having this discussion but would, rather, unanimously be condemning  this practice for the evil that it is. I am proud to be an original  cosponsor of the bill and, once again, vote to stop the practice of  infanticide and protect babies who survive abortions alive. 

  We will be voting on a second bill, which will provide protections  for unborn children that are practiced in almost all of the civilized  world. This is the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act that would  make it a crime for doctors to perform abortions on unborn babies at or  beyond 20 weeks. 

  There is significant medical research that shows that unborn children  at this stage experience pain. At 5 months into a pregnancy, these  babies are beyond halfway to delivery. 

  One of President's Trump's guests at the State of the Union a few  weeks ago was 2-year-old Ellie Schneider--one of the youngest babies to  survive in the United States. Ellie was born at 21 weeks and 6 days-- just 13 days beyond the point in time we are discussing. She weighed  less than a pound at birth and is living proof of the medical  achievements and advancements that have improved the chance of survival  for extremely premature babies. 

  Ellie and her mother Robin are an example of the impact this  legislation would have on the lives of many Americans families.  Unfortunately, just as our Democratic colleagues have tried to deceive  the American people about the purpose of the Born-Alive Abortion  Survivors Protection Act, they are trying to mislead everyone about  what this bill would do as well. 

  First, this bill would apply only to elective abortions, not those  involving rape or incest or where the life of the mother could be in  danger. It in no way places the mother in legal jeopardy for seeking an  abortion. It clearly and solely places responsibility on healthcare  providers.  

  Passing this legislation wouldn't make the United States an extreme  outlier when it comes to abortion practices. In fact, it would put us  in line with international norms. Currently, only seven countries in  the world allow elective abortions after 20 weeks. One, of course, is  the United States. The other countries on the list should make all of  us second-guess allowing abortions beyond 20 weeks--China, Vietnam,  North Korea. Countries with a history of human rights violations are  hardly the model we should aspire to. 

  It is time to give every baby a chance to live and stop doctors from  performing abortions on infants who feel pain. I am proud to be a  cosponsor of both of these bills and stand with my colleagues in the  fight for human life. 

  Our friend from Montana, Senator Daines, established the first-ever  Senate Pro-Life Caucus to fight for the lives of our most vulnerable  citizens. A couple of weeks ago, he said: ``These back-to-back votes  will present an opportunity for Senate Democrats and all of us to show  the American people whether there are any limits at all to radical  abortion extremism.'' We will soon learn the answer. 

  I appreciate our colleagues--Senator Sasse, Senator Graham, and  Senator Daines--for their leadership on this legislation and for  consistently fighting for the most vulnerable among us. I will be a  proud ``yes'' vote on both of these bills--yes to protecting newborn  babies, yes to equal medical care for all infants, and yes to a  fighting chance for all babies.                                 Coronavirus  

  Madam President, we are returning to Washington, DC, from time spent  in our States. I was happy, for one, to get time to spend in Texas with  constituents. I traveled the State, as I am sure many of us did,  traveling from Midland, to Ft. Worth, to Corpus Christi, and a number  of spots in between. Texas is a pretty big place, so it takes a little  time to move around, but it is really great to be able to hear from the  folks I represent--the folks we all represent--about what they care  about the most. 

  One of the most interesting things to me is how little they talk  about what is talked about inside the bubble here known as Washington,  DC. In San Antonio, for example, I met with State and local officials  to discuss their growing concerns over coronavirus. Lackland Air Force  Base is one of the designated locations where Americans evacuated from  overseas with suspected exposure to coronavirus are being held under  the first Federal quarantine in more than 50 years. Folks were  naturally concerned about the fact that these evacuees were scheduled  to be transported to local civilian hospitals for testing rather than  remaining on the base where they are quarantined. In our meeting, we  were able to speak with not only the mayor and two council persons, but  we were able to speak with officials from the Department of Health and  Human Services and the Defense Department about these concerns, and I  am glad we were able to come up with a better solution. The Department  of Health and Human Services has now updated their protocol to ensure  that testing for coronavirus will be conducted at Joint Base Lackland's  quarantine housing, so evacuees will not be sent to hospitals in the  area for their tests. 

  I appreciate my colleagues at the city who have been working overtime  to keep their residents there safe. I am grateful to the administration  for addressing our concerns and being responsive to those questions. 

  On the very day we met, 90 evacuees were released from quarantine,  and I am happy they are finally headed home. I am sure I am not as  happy as they are after being quarantined. We owe a huge thank-you to  the medical professionals who have and will continue to care for those  in quarantine and to the Bexar County and San Antonio officials who are  working to safeguard public health.                           Prescription Drug Costs  

  Madam President, I traveled up I-35 and was in Ft. Worth at the  Northside Community Health Center to hear about an entirely different  healthcare challenge, which is high prescription drug costs. 

  I met with local healthcare professionals, advocates, and patients to  hear about their experiences with these rising costs, and I have  introduced legislation to address them. For example, we heard from  Randall Barker and his daughter Emma, who both have diabetes. They need  insulin. They told me that one bottle of insulin costs upwards of $281.  Randall continues to make sacrifices to afford the lifesaving drugs he  and Emma need to lead healthy lives. 

  As I mentioned, to address the high costs of prescription drugs, I  introduced a bipartisan bill with our colleague, Senator Blumenthal  from Connecticut, called the Affordable Prescriptions for Patients  Act. The purpose of the bill is straight forward: to stop drug  companies from gaming the patent system to keep their profits high.  

  Patents, of course, are granted for scientific innovations in order  to encourage more of them. What happens under the period of a patent is  that whatever the item is--in this case, a drug--that company reserves  the right to sell it exclusively, without any competition, in order to  recoup its costs and incentivize innovation when it comes to these  drugs. But when companies game the system by establishing patent  thickets--multiple patents used to unfairly block competition--this  prevents new drugs, as well as competing drugs at a lower price, from  entering the market. 

  For example, the most widely prescribed drug in America is called  HUMIRA. It has more than 120 different patents, for no real purpose  other than extending that period of exclusivity as long as possible to  continue to make money. In Europe, there are five competing products,  but in America, there is only HUMIRA. That is a patent thicket. That is  gaming the system, and it is hurting American consumers. 

  I appreciate the support from healthcare providers and advocates and  patients I heard from in Ft. Worth. They encourage us to get our work  done sooner rather than later. 

  I have come to the floor twice and asked unanimous consent to pass  the bill. It was voted unanimously out of the Judiciary Committee. The  Democratic leader blocked it both times. I hope he will reconsider his  position. I am sure his constituents in New York would like a little  bit of a break when it comes to prescription drug costs. I happen to  think it has to do more with the upcoming election than it does the  merits of the legislation.                                 E-Cigarettes  

  Madam President, I traveled to a couple of other Texas cities, where  I was able to talk to people about the rise of e-cigarette use,  particularly among teens. In Corpus Christi along the gulf coast and in  Odessa in deep West Texas, I met with a range of local officials,  health professionals, and community advocates about the impact of teen  vaping. 

  One study found that in the Permian Basin, in the middle of the  Odessa area, about half of high school students used e-cigarettes and  25 percent of them had vaped in the past month. This study found that  in schools, the average age of first-time e-cigarette users is just 13  years old. E-cigarettes--even the closed systems, where you can't add  other ingredients, like the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, THC-- even in the closed systems that are designed to deliver only nicotine,  nicotine is an addictive drug. When children get access to these  addictive drugs, it may well end up being a gateway to other use-- whether it is tobacco or other drug use--later in life. It certainly  encourages them to remain a user of this nicotine delivery device. 

  I have introduced legislation called the Preventing Online Sales of  E-Cigarettes to Children Act, which would make it difficult for  children to get their hands on these devices, particularly when they  buy them over the internet. All it does is apply the same safeguards  already in place for online purchases of tobacco--it applies that to e- cigarettes. Customers would have to verify their age at the time of  delivery--a practice which, shockingly, does not currently exist. 

  A recent survey published in the American Journal of Health Promotion  found that 32 percent of underage e-cigarette users reported purchasing  products online, making online sales the single largest source of  purchases for underage users. We recently raised the age from 18 to 21  to get access to these e-cigarettes, but still, as these studies  indicate, use of e-cigarettes and vaping devices is epidemic in our  middle schools and our high schools. It is dangerous to the physical  and mental health of our children. That is something you would think we  would be able to address. If we are going to turn the tide on e- cigarettes and prevent more young people from facing their deadly  health consequences, passage of this legislation is a necessary first  step.                              State Work Period  

  Madam President, when I was home in San Antonio, I was able to help  celebrate the investiture of one of our newest Federal judges, Jason  Pulliam, who filled the vacancy in the Western District of Texas. Then  I got to spend a little time in Midland with folks and talk about the  importance of our oil and gas industry and why innovation in that space  and concern about conservation and the environment were not mutually  exclusive. 

  At each step along the way, I was able to hear from countless other  Texans about changes they would like to see coming out of Washington.  They encouraged us to try to work together and avoid some of the  partisan gridlock we have seen that characterized so much of the recent  impeachment proceedings. It was a great week recharging at home. I came  back ready to get back to work. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT