Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, about 4 weeks after the House voted on the  Articles of Impeachment, the House will name impeachment managers, and  we will see those Impeachment Articles delivered here to the Senate,  but for the impeachment managers' role in the Senate, that will  conclude the House's participation in the impeachment process, and  ours--the Senate's responsibilities--will begin. 

  As I said, this vote occurs 4 weeks after the House concluded its  whirlwind impeachment investigation. As I look more and more closely at  this, it strikes me as a potential case of impeachment malpractice, and  I will explain. 

  Four weeks after they passed these two Articles of Impeachment, 4  weeks after they concluded the President has acted in a way to invoke  our most extreme constitutional sanction that he should be removed from  office, they finally will send these Impeachment Articles to us. 

  As I look at the Impeachment Articles, I am astonished that even  though we heard discussions of quid pro quo, bribery, and other crimes,  the House of Representatives chose not to charge President Trump with a  crime. How you then go on to prove a violation of the constitutional  standard of high crimes and misdemeanors when you don't even charge the  President with a crime, I am looking forward to having the impeachment  managers and the President's lawyers address that. At least at first  blush, it does not appear to meet the constitutional standard of  bribery, treason, high crimes, and misdemeanors. 

  President Clinton was charged with a crime--the crime of perjury-- but, here, President Trump has not been accused of a crime. The vague  allegation is that he abused his office. That can mean anything to  anybody. Just think, if we dumb down the standard for impeachment below  the constitutional standard, what that does is it opens up the next  President, who may have a House majority composed of the other party,  vulnerable to charges of impeachment based on the allegation that he  abused his office, even if they did not commit a high crime or  misdemeanor. So impeachment becomes a political weapon, which is what  this appears to be, rather than a constitutional obligation for the  House and the Senate. 

  Last month, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Jerry  Nadler, said on national television it was a ``rock-solid case''  against the President--``rock-solid,'' but in the moments after the  House voted to impeach the President, there seemed to be a lot of doubt  about whether there was sufficient evidence to convict the President of  high crimes and misdemeanors; so much doubt, in fact, that it led the  Speaker of the House to withhold the articles until the Senate promised  to fill in the gaps left by the House's inadequate record. 

  She sought promises from Senator McConnell, the majority leader, that  the Senate would continue the House's investigation--continue the  House's investigation--the one which only a few weeks prior one of her  top Members said was a rock-solid case. Well, it either is or isn't. 

  I would say that the Speaker's actions and her cold feet and her  reluctance to send the Impeachment Articles here for the last month  indicate to me that she is less than confident that the House has done  their job. 

  As a matter of fact, in the second Article of Impeachment, they  charged the President with obstruction of Congress. Here is the factual  underpinning of that allegation: Chairman Schiff would issue a subpoena  to somebody who works at the White House. They would say: Well, I have  to go to court to get the judge to direct me because I have conflicting  obligations--a subpoena from Congress and perhaps a claim of some  privilege based on confidential communications with the President.  Rather than pursue that in court, which is what happened in the Clinton  impeachment and what should happen in any dispute over executive  privilege, Chairman Adam Schiff of the House Intelligence Committee  dropped them like a hot potato, and they simply moved on in their rush  to impeach without that testimony and without that evidence. So now  they want the Senate to make up for their failure here by calling  additional witnesses. 

  I sometimes joke that I am a recovering lawyer and a recovering  judge. I spent 20 years or more of my life either in courtrooms trying  cases or presiding over those cases or reviewing the cases that had  been tried based on an appellate record in the Texas Supreme Court. 

  Our system of justice is based on an adversary system. You have the  prosecutor who charges a crime--that is basically what the Articles of  Impeachment are analogous to--and then you have a jury and a judge who  try the case presented by the prosecution. We have a strange, even  bizarre, suggestion by the Democratic leader in the Senate that somehow  the jury ought to call additional witnesses before we even listen to  the arguments of the President, his lawyers, and the impeachment  managers who spent 12 weeks getting 100 hours or more worth of  testimony from 17 different witnesses.  

  So this discussion about whether there will be witnesses or no  witnesses is kind of maddening to me. Of course, there will be  witnesses--witnesses whom the impeachment managers choose to present,  maybe through their sworn testimony and not live in the well of the  Senate, but it is no different in terms of its legal effect, or  witnesses and evidence, documentary evidence, that the President's  lawyers choose to present. 

  I think the majority leader has wisely proposed--and now it looks  like 53 Senators have agreed--that we defer this whole issue of  additional witnesses until after both sides have had the chance to  present their case and Senators have a chance to ask questions in  writing. 

  This is going to be a very difficult process for people who make  their living talking all the time, which is what Senators do. Sitting  here and being forced to listen and let other people do the talking is  going to be a challenge, but we will have a chance to ask questions in  writing, and the Chief Justice will direct those questions to the  appropriate party--either the impeachment managers or the President's  lawyers--and they will attempt to answer those questions. 

  As I look at this record more, I am beginning to wonder whether the  basic  facts are really disputed. So when people talk about calling additional  witnesses, I think what they are more interested in is a show trial and  getting cameras and media coverage rather than actually resolving any  disputed facts and applying the legal standard--which is what the  Constitution provides--in order to decide whether the President should  be acquitted or convicted. That should be the role of the Senate  sitting as a jury. 

  The House, it seems, was under no deadline--other than an internally  imposed deadline--to complete their impeachment investigation. They  could have subpoenaed more witnesses. They could have waited for those  subpoenas to play their way out in court and held a vote once they  truly believed they had sufficient evidence to impeach the President,  enough evidence that they felt confident presenting at a Senate trial. 

  If a prosecutor were to do in a court of law what the House  impeachment inquiry did, they would be justly accused of malpractice.  To drop the witnesses rather than to actually go to court to try to get  the testimony you need in order to support the Articles of Impeachment,  that is malpractice because you know if this were a court of law, in  all likelihood, the judge would summarily dismiss the case, saying: You  haven't shown the evidence to support the charges that the grand jury-- in this case, the House--has made under the Articles of Impeachment. 

  We know that rather than develop the record that would be sufficient  to prove their case, Members of the House gave themselves an arbitrary  deadline for their investigation and made speed their top priority. Now  finding themselves with the short end of the stick, they are trying to  pin their regrets and their malpractice on Members of the Senate. 

  Our Democratic colleagues are trying to paint the picture in a way  that makes it look like Senate Republicans are failing in their duties,  but we will fulfill our constitutional role and duties. The only  question is, did the House perform their constitutional duties in an  adequate way to meet the constitutional standard? 

  Speaker Pelosi went so far as to say that failing to allow additional  witnesses would result in a ``coverup.'' I think I have heard that same  charge by the Democratic leader here. I don't really understand the  logic of that one. It seems like the only coverup happening is when the  Speaker is covering up her caucus's shoddy and insufficient  investigation. 

  She is trying to distract from the fact that there is very little, if  any, evidence to support the Articles of Impeachment. She is trying to  place the blame on the Senate--a strategy you don't have to have x-ray  vision to see through. 

  The Speaker went so far as to say last Sunday that Senators will  ``pay a price'' for not calling witnesses, but I think they are now  beginning to take the mask off and expose their true motivation. Based  on what we know now, this is no longer about 67 votes to convict and  remove President Trump; this is about forcing Senators who are running  for election in 2020 to take tough political votes that can be then  exploited in TV ads. That seems to me to demean this whole impeachment  affair. This is a thermonuclear weapon in a constitutional sense. To  accuse someone of high crimes and misdemeanors and to seek to convict  them in a court and remove them from office is a very serious matter,  but it has been treated and is being treated like a trivial political  matter, a political football.  

  Based on the way that Speaker Pelosi and others have characterized  the need for additional witnesses, you would think no one had testified  before or had been deposed. But that would be to ignore the House  Intelligence Committee's 298-page report--a 298-page report--detailing  their impeachment inquiry. It details the actions of the committee,  including dozens of subpoenas and the taking of more than 100 hours of  testimony from 17 witnesses. So when somebody says this is a question  of witnesses or no witnesses, I say that is not true. Those are not the  facts. We already have 100 hours of testimony that could be presented  in the Senate if it is actually relevant to the Articles of  Impeachment, to what is charged. 

  To be clear, all the information will be available to the Senate, and  the testimony of 17 of those witnesses will likely be presented by the  impeachment managers. 

  Again, our Democratic friends in the House apparently are having a  little bit of buyer's remorse, cold feet. Pick your metaphor. With 4  weeks of deep contemplation separating them from the impeachment vote  they took, they no longer believe, apparently, that they have enough  evidence to prove a high crime and misdemeanor, which is the  constitutional standard. As for that 298-page report that they were  once so proud of, apparently now they concede by their actions that it  falls short of that rock-solid case they promised. So rather than  taking responsibility for their own impeachment malpractice, rather  than admitting that they rushed through the investigation, skipped over  witnesses whom they now deem critical to the inquiry, they try now to  blame the Senate and put the burden of proof on our shoulders. Well, as  I said earlier, there is no question whether witnesses will be  presented. Some of them will be presented who testified in the House of  Representatives--the 17 witnesses who testified over 100 hours. 

  I think the Senate, based on the vote of 53 Senators, has wisely  deferred whether additional witnesses will be subpoenaed until after we  have had a chance to hear from the parties to the impeachment and an  opportunity by Senators to actually ask clarification questions. 

  Leader McConnell has been consistent in saying that we wouldn't be  naming witnesses before the start of the trial, in line with the  precedent set by the Clinton impeachment trial. Ironically, the  Democratic leader was in a position during the Clinton impeachment  trial that no additional witnesses should be offered and now finds  himself, ironically enough, in the opposite posture based on nothing  more than the difference in the identity of the President being  impeached. 

  To reiterate, we will have a chance to hear the arguments from both  sides, along with any documents they choose to present. We will move to  the Senators' questions, and then we will decide whether more evidence  is required. I personally am disinclined to have the jury conduct the  trial by demanding additional evidence. I think that is the role of the  impeachment managers and of the President's lawyers. I know fair-minded  people can differ, and if 51 Senators want additional witnesses under  this resolution, they will have an opportunity to have them subpoenaed. 

  This is going to be a fair process, unlike the House process, which  has been--well, I was going to say ``a three-ring circus,'' but that is  not fair to the circus. We are going to have a dignified, sober, and  deliberate process here, befitting the gravity of what we have been  asked to decide. No one, neither the prosecution nor the defense, will  be precluded from participating. As a matter of fact, they will drive  the process. That is the way trials are conducted in every courthouse  in America, and that is the process we should adopt here. 

  In stark contrast to the partisan chaos that consumed the impeachment  inquiry in the House, we are going to restore order, civility, and  fairness. Over the last 4 weeks, there has been a whole lot of talk but  not much action from our colleagues on the other side of the aisle in  the House. They have taken what should be a serious and solemn  responsibility in Congress and turned it into a partisan playground  less than a year before the next election, when tens of millions of  Americans will be voting on their choice for President of the United  States. 

  By needlessly withholding the Articles of Impeachment for 4 weeks,  the Speaker has all but ensured that the Senate's impeachment trial  will overlap with the Iowa caucuses. That is where our Democratic  friends will choose their Presidential primary winner, starting with  the Iowa caucuses. 

  This trial could even stretch into the New Hampshire primary or the  Nevada caucuses. I find it curious that the Speaker's decision will  force four Senators who are actually running for President in those  primary contests to leave the campaign trail in these battleground  States and come back to Washington, DC, and be glued to their seats,  sitting as jurors during this trial, when I am sure they would rather  be out on the hustings. Rather than  shaking hands with voters, they will be sitting here like the rest of  us. That will be a big blow to their election. Based on what we have  seen in the press, these four Senators aren't what I would call ``happy  campers,'' and I don't blame them. 

  You had better believe, though, that their competitors are  celebrating. They are going to have the Iowa caucuses, perhaps, and  maybe New Hampshire and Nevada all to themselves while these four  Senators who are running for President in the Democratic primary will  have to be here like the rest of us. 

  So, in holding the articles for 4 weeks, the Speaker just cleared out  some of the top contenders in the Presidential primaries--the early  ones--and it is pretty clear that the candidate who stands the most to  gain from their absence is former Vice President Biden. 

  The politics of this impeachment circus show that it was never a  serious one. A constitutional issue? Wrong. It was a political exercise  from the start, meant to hurt this President and help the Speaker's  party elect a Democrat in his stead in November--or at least Nancy  Pelosi's friends in the Democratic Party. 

  Over these last 4 weeks, we have been standing by, waiting to do our  duty, wasting valuable time, while the Democrats in the House try to  come to terms with their embarrassing and inadequate investigation, and  watching them as they try to figure out how they could possibly get  themselves out of this embarrassing box canyon they have walked into. 

  I know we are all eager for the process to finally shift from the  House's hands to the Senate, and I am hopeful that later this evening  we will finally be free from Speaker Pelosi's manipulative games when  it comes to impeachment.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT