Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, before Congress adjourned for the  holidays, our colleagues in the House of Representatives carried out  their sole priority for 2019, which was to impeach President Trump.  That was their No. 1 objective in 2019. While it is no secret that this  is something they have been dreaming of since the day President Trump  was inaugurated on January 20, 2017, it certainly took our colleagues  in the House on a roller coaster ride and the country as well. I liken  it, really, not to a roller coaster ride, but to a three-ring circus.  It did not reflect particularly well on their body or on the  seriousness of the process. 

  From March of last year, here is an important quote to remember.  Speaker Pelosi cast a lot of doubt that an impeachment vote would even  happen. This is from March 2019. She said:  

       Impeachment is so divisive to the country that unless       there's something so compelling and overwhelming and       bipartisan, I don't think we should go down that path,       because it divides the country. And he's just not worth it.  

  That is what Speaker Pelosi said in March of 2019. 

  As we have seen, it was only a matter of time before the radical  Members of her caucus forced Speaker Pelosi's hand and sent the House  down a partisan impeachment rabbit hole. That is where they ended up.  House Democrats dove head first into--as something our majority leader  has said here in the Senate--the most rushed, least fair, and least  thorough impeachment inquiry in American history. We have only been  through this three times before in American history. This is an  extraordinary undertaking under our Constitution, to seek to impeach  and remove a President less than a year before the upcoming election  over something that does not even allege any crime but rather a  disagreement with the way the President has conducted foreign policy,  which is his role under our Constitution. 

  For as long as Democrats have been dreaming about this moment, you  would think they would be well prepared for a thorough investigation  and a presentation of their case to the Senate. Well, as it turns out,  that is not even close. They moved through closed door depositions,  public hearings, and a vote at an alarming pace, all to ensure that  they could wrap up the process by the end of the year. Before the clock  struck midnight, they managed to get it done. 

  Despite Speaker Pelosi's insistence less than a year ago that  impeachment should be a bipartisan process, the House passed Articles  of Impeachment with votes from just one party, which is the definition  of partisan, not bipartisan. 

  In spite of the partisanship that has ensnared this process in the  House of Representatives, we in the Senate have vowed to follow the  framework set by the only modern precedent for an impeachment trial in  the Senate, and that is of President Bill Clinton. In 1999, all 100  Senators, including both the current majority and minority leaders,  voted in support of a pretrial resolution that laid the foundation for  the trial ahead--this was in fairness to all concerned--so that the  Senate could know how this would proceed and what they would be called  upon to do. 

  Back in 1999, all 100 Senators decided to begin with opening  arguments, to move to Senators' questions, and then to vote on a motion  to dismiss. This would provide an opportunity to hear the case  presented by the parties before the decision was made whether to hear  from additional witnesses. I might add that I believe the House heard  from 17 different witnesses. 

  All of the testimony certainly could be presented by the impeachment  managers in the Senate. Sometimes, I hear people talking about whether  we are going to have any witnesses or not. Well, of course, but  witnesses come in different shapes, sizes, and form. There could be a  live witness. There could be a witness's sworn testimony presented in a  hearing or at a deposition outside of the Chamber and excerpts are read  into evidence in the impeachment trial. This is not a question of  whether we are going to have any witnesses or no witnesses. This is  going to be a question of whether we are going to allow the impeachment  managers from the House and the President's lawyers to try their own  case. In an ordinary civil or criminal case, you don't have the jury  trying the case for the prosecution or the defense or for the plaintiff  or the defendant. The role of the jury is to sit and listen and then to  decide after the evidence is presented. 

  Well, when the time came to vote on the motion to dismiss, during the  Clinton trial, every single one of our Democratic colleagues who were  here in 1999 voted to dismiss the charges--every single one. That was  the Clinton trial in 1999. Then, when Members voted on whether or not  to hear additional witnesses, every single one of our Democratic  colleague who were here in 1999 voted no--no additional witnesses.  Everyone voted no. That includes our friend the minority leader,  Senator Schumer, who said on the Senate floor yesterday that everyone  who is opposed to additional witnesses is participating in a coverup.  Talk about a change of heart. You know that is the danger here in the  Senate. If you have been here long enough, you can find yourself on the  opposite side of almost any question that could come up. Certainly,  Senator Schumer has found himself, first, saying in President Clinton's  case no additional witnesses and, now, in the case of President Trump,  he has changed the standard and says, if you don't vote for additional  witnesses, you are somehow engaged in a coverup. 

  Well, I think people are smart enough to understand what that  represents. It represents not only a change of heart, but it represents  hypocrisy and a double standard. 

  When President Clinton was on trial, Democrats had zero interest in  hearing from additional witnesses beyond that presented by the  impeachment managers and the President's lawyers or spending more time  on the trial. The way they saw it, all the information had been  presented, and so they voted to throw the charges out. Now, I am not  faulting them for that, per se. All 100 members agreed to the process  that gave them the opportunity to make that vote, and they had every  right to do so. Now that a Republican President is on trial, instead of  a Democrat, our Democratic colleagues say the same process is not good  enough. In other words, what was good enough for President Clinton is  not good enough, in their opinion, for President Trump. 

  Instead of following the exact same framework used in the Clinton  impeachment trial, they want to set the rules for the entire trial  before we have even had a chance to hear the opening arguments. Here,  again, I realize we have a lot of type-A personalities here--people who  like to take charge--but that is not the role of the Senate during an  impeachment trial. We are here to listen to the case presented by the  impeachment managers from the House and the President's own lawyers,  not to try to take over the process. In fact, the hardest thing a  Senator is going to have to do during this impeachment trial is to sit  and be quiet and let the parties present their case.  

  Well, our Democratic colleagues are even going so far as requesting  specific  witness lists even before Nancy Pelosi has sent the Articles of  Impeachment over. They obviously are having buyer's remorse about  voting out Articles of Impeachment now and essentially admitting that  the evidence is so flimsy that it needs to be bolstered by additional  witnesses here in the Senate. Well, I am sure it comes as no surprise  that Senate Republicans are not on board with this partisan approach to  impeachment. 

  As you can imagine, Nancy Pelosi isn't happy that the power to make  this decision is in the Senate's hands. One thing I have learned here  in the Senate and in the Congress is that the Senate and the House are  pretty jealous about the prerogatives of their body to be able to make  decisions for themselves. The last thing the House ordinarily wants to  do is have the Senate tell them what to do. Certainly, the opposite is  true. The last thing the Senate wants to do is to have the House try to  direct how the impeachment trial is conducted here in the Senate. Well,  that is not the way it works, and that is not going to happen. 

  The Speaker has pulled the emergency brake on this rushed impeachment  process and is refusing to send the Articles of Impeachment over here  to the Senate because she doesn't think the framework used in the  Clinton trial is good enough. She is now trying to use her role as  Speaker of the House--admittedly, a very powerful position in our  Congress--to try to make the rules of the Senate. She wants to set the  parameters for what the Senate's trial will look like, which is not in  her job description. I know it is a terrible revelation, but it is  beyond her authority, beyond her power, and it ain't going to happen. 

  The way I see it, this dogged determination to interfere in the  Senate process isn't because the framework we are planning to use is  unfair or partisan. Obviously, all the Democrats who were here during  the Clinton trial agreed to a similar process then, and now they want  to change the rules for President Trump. 

  Speaker Pelosi also wants the Senate to do the work that Members of  her caucus were either too rushed or too lazy to do for themselves.  Ordinarily, if the charges are going to be brought, let's say, in a  criminal case, there would be an indictment, and then the case would be  presented. It would rise or fall based on the presentation of the  prosecutors. 

  Well, here, I think the analogy is apt that it is the responsibility  of the House to prove the Articles of Impeachment that they have  charged. It is their responsibility, not ours. We are supposed to be  the jury. 

  Speaker Pelosi knows, as we do, that the House did not do a good job  in investigating the facts, and she thinks the Senate should mop up  after the House created the mess that they did. That is not going to  happen. 

  The House had ample opportunity and time to look at all the facts.  The problem the House has is that the facts they have discovered and  alleged simply don't represent a high crime and misdemeanor, much less  bribery or treason, which are the constitutional standards for an  impeachment. What they have is a disagreement on the manner in which  foreign policy was conducted with a President whom they hate. That is  the reason they have impeached President Trump. It is not because of  any bribery, treason, or high crimes and misdemeanors. As a matter of  fact, they don't even charge a crime. What they do is charge  obstruction of Congress. 

  Here is what happened. Adam Schiff, the chairman of the Intelligence  Committee, issued subpoenas to certain witnesses. The White House said:  Hey, wait a minute. We believe we have a valid claim of executive  privilege. Ordinarily, that would then go to a court, and the court  would say yes or no or cut the baby in half. 

  But when the witnesses said we need to go to court for direction,  Adam Schiff dropped them like a hot potato and didn't even bother to  call the witnesses or go to court to pursue the testimony he said was  important. Now, that is on him. That is not on President Trump. To  claim that their own mismanagement of the impeachment inquiry is  grounds to impeach the President for obstruction of Congress would be  laughable if it weren't so serious. 

  At their own volition, they rushed through the impeachment inquiry  with reckless abandon, and it is not the Senate's job to reopen and  redo their inglorious investigation. 

  The Senate's role, as I said, is to take the evidence compiled by the  House and presented by the impeachment managers and conduct a trial  based on the evidence that they present, not to somehow initiate a new  investigation before we have even heard from the impeachment managers  from the House, or to somehow say: Well, we are going to essentially  become the impeachment managers ourselves, a role that the Constitution  gives to the House and not to the Senate. 

  The Senate's role is to listen and to decide, not to try to hijack  the process and to try to do something for the House that they have  been unable to do themselves. Once the Speaker transmits the Articles  of Impeachment to the Senate, the House's role as a body is done, and  they speak and act through the impeachment managers, who will be  presenting the case on behalf of the House. 

  When the Speaker decides to send the Articles of Impeachment to the  Senate, we will be prepared to do our job. And unlike the House, we  will do so in a serious and deliberative fashion and perform our  constitutional duties under the Constitution and the rules of the  Senate with regard to impeachment trials. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT