Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, over the last months, our country has  been consumed by a single word, one that we don't use often in our  ordinary parlance. That word, of course, is ``impeachment.'' It has  filled our news channels, our Twitter feeds, and dinner conversations.  It has led to a wide-ranging debate on everything from the  constitutional doctrines of the separation of powers to the due process  of law--two concepts which are the most fundamental building blocks of  who we are as a nation. It has even prompted those who typically have  no interest in politics to tune into C-SPAN or into their favorite  cable news channels. 

  The impeachment of a President of the United States is simply the  gravest undertaking we can pursue in this country. It is the nuclear  option in our Constitution--the choice of last resort--when a President  has committed a crime so serious that Congress must act rather than  leave the choice to the voters in the election. 

  The Framers of the Constitution granted this awesome power to the  U.S. Congress and placed their confidence in the Senate to use only  when absolutely necessary, when there is no other choice. 

  This is a rare, historic moment for the Members of this Chamber. This  has been faced by the Senate only on two previous occasions during our  Constitution's 232-year history--only two times previously. We should  be extraordinarily vigilant in ensuring that the impeachment power does  not become a regular feature of our differences and, in the process,  cheapen the vote of the American people. Soon, Members of the Senate  will determine whether, for the first time in our history, a President  will be removed from office, and then we will decide whether he will be  barred from the ballot in 2020. 

  The question all Senators have to answer is, Did the President  commit, in the words of the Constitution, a high crime and misdemeanor  that warrants his removal from office or should he be acquitted of the  charges made by the House? 

  I did my best to listen intently to both sides as they presented  their cases during the trial, and I am confident in saying that  President Trump should be acquitted and not removed from office. 

  First, the Constitution gives the Congress the power to impeach and  remove a President from office only for treason, bribery, and other  high crimes and misdemeanors, but the two Articles of Impeachment  passed by the House of Representatives fail to meet that standard. 

  The first charge, as we know, is abuse of power. House Democrats  alleged that the President withheld military aid from Ukraine in  exchange for investigations of Joe and Hunter  Biden. But they failed to bring forward compelling and unassailable  evidence of any crime--again, the Constitution talks about treason,  bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors; clearly, a criminal  standard--and thus failed to meet their burden of proof. Certainly, the  House managers did not meet the high burden required to remove the  President from office, effectively nullifying the will of tens of  millions of Americans just months before the next election. What is  more, the House's vague charge in the first article is equivalent to  acts considered and rejected by the Framers of our Constitution. 

  That brings us to the second article we are considering--obstruction  of Congress. During the House inquiry, Democrats were upset because  some of the President's closest advisers--and their most sought-after  witnesses--did not testify. To be clear, some of the executive branch  witnesses were among the 13 witnesses whose testimony we did hear  during the Senate trial. But for those witnesses for whom it was clear  the administration would claim a privilege, almost certainly leading to  a long court battle, the House declined to issue the subpoenas and  certainly did not seek judicial enforcement. Rather than addressing the  privilege claims in court, as happened in the Nixon and Clinton  impeachments, the Democratic managers moved to impeach President Trump  for obstruction of Congress for protecting the Presidency itself from a  partisan abuse of power by the House. 

  Removing the President from office for asserting long-recognized and  constitutionally grounded privileges that have been invoked by both  Republican and Democratic Presidents would set a very dangerous  precedent and would do violence to the Constitution's separation of  powers design. In effect, it would make the Presidency itself  subservient to Congress. 

  The father of our Constitution, James Madison, warned against  allowing the impeachment power to create a Presidential tenure at the  pleasure of the Senate. 

  Even more concerning, at every turn throughout this process, the  House Democrats violated President Trump's right to due process of law.  All American law is built on a constitutional foundation securing basic  rights and rules of fairness for a citizen accused of wrongdoing. 

  It is undisputed that the House excluded the President's legal team  from both the closed-door testimony and almost the entirety of the  House's 78-day inquiry. They channeled personal, policy, and political  grievances and attempted to use the most solemn responsibility of  Congress to bring down a political rival in a partisan process. 

  It is no secret that Democrats' crusade to remove the President began  more than 3 years ago on the very day he was inaugurated. On January  20, 2017, the Washington Post ran a story with the headline ``The  campaign to impeach President Trump has begun.'' 

  At first, Speaker Pelosi wisely resisted. Less than a year ago, she  said, ``Impeachment is so divisive to the country that unless there is  something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan, I don't think  we should go down that path because it divides the country.'' And she  was right. But when she couldn't hold back the stampede of her caucus,  she did a 180-degree about-face. She encouraged House Democrats to rush  through an impeachment inquiry before an arbitrary Christmas deadline. 

  In the end, the articles passed with support from only a single  party--not bipartisan. The bipartisanship the Speaker claimed was  necessary was actually opposed to the impeachment of the President;  that is, Democrats and Republicans voted in opposition to the Articles  of Impeachment. Only Democrats voted for the Articles of Impeachment in  the House. 

  Once the articles finally made it to the Senate after a confusing,  28-day delay, Speaker Pelosi tried to have Senator Schumer--the  Democratic leader here--use Speaker Pelosi's playbook, and he staged a  number of political votes every Member of the Senate knew would fail,  just so he could secure some perceived political advantage against  Republican Senators in the 2020 election. 

  What should be a solemn, constitutional undertaking became partisan  guerilla warfare to take down President Trump and make Senator Schumer  the next majority leader of the U.S. Senate. 

  All of this was done on the eve of an election and just days shy of  the first primary in Iowa. 

  Well, to say the timing was a coincidence would be laughable. This  partisan impeachment process could not only remove the President from  office, it would also potentially prevent his name from appearing on  the ballot in November. We are only 9 months away from an election--9  months away from the American people voting on the direction of our  country--but our Democratic colleagues don't trust the American people,  so they have taken matters into their own hands. 

  This politically motivated impeachment sets a dangerous precedent.  This is a very important point. This is not just about President Trump;  this is about the Office of the Presidency and what precedent a  conviction and removal would set for our Constitution and for our  future. If successful, this would give a green light to future  Congresses to weaponize impeachment to defeat a political opponent for  any action--even a failure to kowtow to Congress's wishes. 

  Impeachment is a profoundly serious matter that must be handled as  such. It cannot become the Hail Mary pass of a party to remove a  President, effectively nullifying an election and interfering in the  next. 

  I believe--I think we should all believe--that the results of the  next election should be decided by the American people, not by  Congress. 

  The decision to remove a President from office requires undeniable  evidence of a high crime. That is the language chosen by the Framers of  our Constitution. But despite our colleagues' best attempts, the facts  they presented simply don't add up to that standard. 

  House managers failed to meet their heavy burden of proof that  President Trump, beyond a reasonable doubt, committed a crime, let  alone a high crime; therefore, I will not vote to convict the  President. 

  I hope our Democratic colleagues will finally accept the result of  this trial--just as they have not accepted the result of the 2016  election--and I hope they won't take the advice of Congresswoman  Waters, Maxine Waters in the House, and open a second impeachment  inquiry. It is time for our country to come together to heal the wounds  that divide us and to get the people's work done. 

  There is no doubt, as Speaker Pelosi observed in March of 2019, that  impeachment is a source of division in our country, and it is also a  period of great sadness. If this partisan impeachment were to succeed,  my greatest fear is it would become a routine process for every  President who serves with a House majority of the opposite party, and  we would find ourselves in a recurring impeachment nightmare every time  we elect a new President. 

  Our country is deeply divided and damaged by this partisan  impeachment process. It is time for us to bring it to a close and to  let the wounds from this unnecessary and misguided episode heal. 

   This statement seeks to supplement the remarks       that I made on the Senate floor on Wednesday, February 5,       2020. It includes some of my observations as a former judge       on some of the complicated constitutional, legal, and factual       issues associated with this impeachment proceeding and its       implications for future presidential impeachments.      (1) What is the Constitutional standard? 

       In America, all government derives its power, in the words       of the Declaration of Independence, ``from the consent of the       governed.'' \1\ This is not just a statement of national       policy, but a statement about legitimacy. 

       Elections are the principal means of conferring legitimacy       by the consent of the governed. Impeachments, by the House       and tried in the Senate, while conferring authority on 535       Members of Congress to nullify one election and disqualify a       convicted President from appearing on a future ballot,       exercise delegated power from the governed, much attenuated       from the direct consent provided by       an election. It seems obvious that an impeachment of a       President during an election year should give rise to       heightened concerns about legitimacy. 

       While there was extensive argument on what the Framers       intended the impeachment standard to be, suffice it to say,       they believed it should be serious enough to warrant removal,       and disqualification from future office, of a duly elected       President. 

       The role of impeachments in a constitutional republic like       the United States was borrowed, to some extent, from our       British forebears. But it was not a wholesale acceptance of       the British model, with its parliamentary system where entire       governments can be removed on a vote of no confidence, but       rather a distinctly Americanized system that purposefully       created a strong and co-equal chief executive, elected by the       people for a definite term, with a narrowed scope of       impeachable offenses for the President. 

       Under the U.S. Constitution, Presidents may be impeached       for ``treason, bribery, and other high crimes and       misdemeanors.'' Due to the rarity of presidential       impeachments (three in 232 years), the age of some precedents       (dating back to the Johnson impeachment of 1868), and the       diversity of impeachment cases (and in particular, the       significant difference between the impeachment of judges and       Presidents), there remains quite a bit of debate about       precisely what actions by a President are impeachable. 

       Some argue a crime is not required, although all previous       presidential impeachments charged a crime. Some argue that       not all crimes are impeachable, only serious crimes can be       ``high'' crimes. Some categories, including ``malversation,''       ``neglect of duty,'' ``corruption,'' ``malpractice,'' and       ``maladministration'' were considered and rejected by the       Framers.\2\      (2) Abuse of power 

       The President's lawyers charge that ``abuse of power''       alleged in the first Article of Impeachment is not a crime,       much less a ``high'' crime, nor a violation of established       law. This argument raises Due Process of Law concerns with       regard to notice of what is prohibited. As Justice Antonin       Scalia observed shortly before his death in the criminal       context, ``invoking so shapeless a provision to condemn       someone . . . does not comport with the Constitution's       guarantee of due process.'' \3\ 

       Moreover, they argue that ``abuse of power'' is tantamount       to ``maladministration,'' which was rejected by the Framers.       There is little doubt that a vague and ambiguous charge in an       Article of Impeachment can be a generalized accusation into       which the House can lump all of their political, policy, and       personal differences with a President. This should be       avoided. 

       The House Managers say no crime is required for       impeachment, and that abuse of power, which incorporates a       host of nefarious acts, is all that is required. No violation       of criminal statutes is alleged, nor required they say, and       they disagree that abuse of power equates with       ``maladministration.'' They point to Alexander Hamilton's       statement in Federalist 65 that impeachable offenses are       ``those offenses which proceed from the misconduct of public       men, or, in other words, from the abuse or violation of some       public trust.''      (3) Obstruction of Congress. 

       The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence issued       dozens of subpoenas and heard testimony from 17 witnesses. As       to other witness subpoenas issued to members of the Trump       Administration, White House Counsel Pat Cipollone argued in       his October 8, 2019 letter to Speaker of the House Pelosi       that any subpoenas issued before passage of a formal       resolution of the House establishing an impeachment inquiry       were constitutionally invalid and a violation of due process.       The House Managers rely on the Constitution's grant of the       ``sole power of impeachment'' to the House and argue that no       authorizing resolution was required. Essentially, they argue       that under the Constitution the House can run an       impeachment inquiry any way the House wants and no one can       complain. 

       No committee of the House was officially delegated the       House's impeachment authority until October 31, 2019, when       the House passed House Resolution 660 directing ``the       Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committees       on Financial Services, Foreign Affairs, the Judiciary,       Oversight and Reform, and Ways and Means to continue their       ongoing investigations as part of the existing House of       Representatives inquiry into whether sufficient grounds exist       for the House of Representatives to exercise its       constitutional power to impeach Donald John Trump, President       of the United States.'' 

       Neither the House's theory that it could act without a       delegation resolution, nor the White House Counsel's argument       that subpoenas were void without one was presented to a court       during this impeachment inquiry.\4\ In fact, the House       intentionally avoided litigation because, as House Manager       Adam Schiff stated, it would slow down their inquiry. 

       One example makes this point. Charles Kupperman was a       deputy to former National Security Advisor John Bolton. Other       than Bolton himself, Kupperman was one of the officials most       likely to have direct knowledge of an alleged quid pro quo on       aid to Ukraine. But after the House subpoenaed him last fall,       Kupperman went to court and asked for a resolution of the       competing claims between the President and the House. Rather       than wait for a judicial determination in this interbranch       dispute, the House withdrew its subpoena and affirmatively       disclaimed any desire to pursue Kupperman's testimony in the       future.\5\ The House also decided not to subpoena Bolton or       any other key witnesses in the administration. 

       Instead, the House elected to push through impeachment with       an abbreviated period of roughly three months and declared       any delay by President Trump, even to seek judicial review,       to be obstruction of Congress and a high crime and       misdemeanor. The Administration is currently in court       challenging demands for witnesses and documents. Just a       couple weeks ago, the Supreme Court accepted such cases for       review and stayed the lower court decisions ordering the       production of President Trump's financial records from third       parties.\6\ Still, the House impeached President Trump before       the Supreme Court or other federal courts could rule on the       merits of claims of presidential privileges and immunities in       this impeachment inquiry. 

       The essence of the House's second Article of Impeachment is       that it is Obstruction of Congress to decline to voluntarily       submit to the House's inquiry and forgo any claims of       presidential privileges or immunities. One interpretation of       these facts is that the House simply gave up pursuing the       testimony in the interest of speed. While undoubtedly       litigation would have delayed for a time the House's       impeachment inquiry if they were determined to secure the       testimony they initially sought, it is clear that the       President, and not the witnesses, would assert claims of       executive privilege or absolute testimony immunity to protect       the Office of the Presidency. These claims are       constitutionally based in the separation of powers, long-      recognized by the Department of Justice's Office of Legal       Counsel, and repeatedly asserted by both Republican and       Democratic Administrations in countless disputes with       Congress. And since the House did not pursue the testimony       originally subpoenaed, the issue of presidential privileges       or immunity was never decided.\7\ 

       But that is not all. Representative Eric Swalwell recently       declared that not only should a sitting president be       impeached if he or she goes to the courts rather than submit       to Congress, but that contesting demands for evidence is       actually evidence of guilt on all of the charged offenses.       Congressman Swalwell claimed ``we can only conclude that you       are guilty'' if someone refuses to give testimony or       documents to Congress.\8\ So much for the presumption of       innocence and other constitutional rights encompassed by the       Constitution's guarantee of Due Process of Law. 

       It is an odd argument that a person accused of running a       red light has more legal rights than a President being       impeached.      (4) The House's impeachment inquiry 

       The House Managers argue that since Article 1, Section 2 of       the Constitution gives the House the ``sole power of       impeachment,'' the President cannot question the procedures       as a denial of Due Process of Law or authority by which that       House produced the Articles. What they don't explain is how       House rules can preempt the Constitution. They can't. As       Chief Justice John Marshall wrote in Marbury v. Madison,       ``the Constitution is superior to any ordinary act of the       legislature, [and] the Constitution, and not such ordinary       act, must govern the case to which they both apply.'' \9\ 

       While the Constitution gives the House the ``sole power to       impeach'' it gives the Senate the ``sole power to try all       impeachments.'' Some have analogized the House's role to a       grand jury in criminal cases. Generally speaking, a grand       jury may issue an indictment, also known as a ``true bill,''       only if it finds, based upon the evidence that has been       presented to it, that there is probable cause to believe that       a crime has been committed by a criminal suspect. 

       But impeachment is not, strictly speaking, a criminal case,       even though the Constitution speaks in terms of       ``conviction'' and the impeachment standard is ``treason,       bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.'' Contrast       that with Article 1, Section 3, Clause 7: ``the Party       convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to       Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to       Law.'' In other words, the constitutional prohibition of       double jeopardy does not apply. 

       Neither are Senators jurors in the usual sense of being       ``disinterested'' in the facts or outcome. Senators take the       following oath: ``Do you solemnly swear that in all things       appertaining to the trial of the impeachment of Donald John       Trump, President of the United States, now pending, you will       do impartial justice according to the Constitution and laws,       so help you God?'' 

       Hamilton wrote in Federalist 65 the Senate was chosen as       the tribunal for courts of impeachment because: 

       ``Where else than in the Senate could have been found a       tribunal sufficiently dignified, or sufficiently independent?       What other body would be likely to feel confidence enough in       its own situation, to preserve, unawed and uninfluenced, the       necessary impartiality between an individual accused, and the       representatives of the people, his accusers?'' 

       Because impeachment is neither civil nor criminal in the       usual sense, it must be something different. President       Trump's counsel referred to the Senate role as sitting in a       ``High Court of Impeachment,'' and ``Democracy's ultimate       court.'' Hamilton, in Federalist 65, called it ``a method of       national inquest.'' 

       One of most significant disputes in the Senate impeachment       trial of President Trump was the duty of the House to develop       evidence during its impeachment inquiry and the duty of the       Senate when new evidence is sought by one or both parties       during the trial. In addressing this issue, it is helpful to       remind ourselves that the American system of justice is       adversarial in nature. That is, it is a system that       ``resolves disputes by presenting conflicting views of fact       and law to an impartial and relatively passive arbiter, who       decides which side wins what.'' \10\ This system ``consists       of a core of basic rights that recognize and protect the       dignity of the individual in a free society.'' \11\ 

       The rights that comprise the adversary system include . . .       the rights to call and to confront witnesses, and the right       to require the government to prove guilt beyond a reasonable       doubt. . . . These rights, and others, are also included in       the broad and fundamental concept [of] due process of law--a       concept which itself has been substantially equated with the       adversary system.'' \12\ 

       The adversarial nature of these proceedings means that the       House Managers were obligated to develop their case,       including the evidence, in the House inquiry, and not rely on       the Senate to do so. In typical court proceedings, the       failure of the prosecutor to present sufficient evidence at       trial results in dismissal, not in open-ended discovery or a       re-opened investigation. 

       President Trump's lawyers argued that there were three main       errors in the House proceedings: 

       (1) The House did not initially authorize the impeachment       inquiry, thus delegating its ``sole power'' to the       Intelligence Committee, which issued dozens of subpoenas the       President deemed invalid; 

       (2) Numerous due process violations during the Intelligence       Committee's proceedings, including denial of notice, counsel,       cross examination, and the opportunity to call witnesses; 

       (3) And, finally, that as an interested fact witness       regarding Intelligence Committee contacts with the       whistleblower, Chairman Schiff could not be said to have       fairly conducted the House investigation. 

       Again, the House Managers argue that the method by which       the Articles of Impeachment were approved in the House cannot       be challenged in the Senate trial given the House's ``sole       power to impeach.'' 

       Ominously, the President's lawyers argue that whatever       precedent was set by the Senate in this trial would be the       ``new normal'' and govern not just this trial but all       impeachment trials in the future. They also argue that to       make impeachment ``too easy'' in the House will result in       more frequent presidential impeachments being approved by       this and future Houses, which the Senate would then be       obligated to try. Similarly, they argue that the Senate       should not reward the failure of the House to litigate       questions of presidential privileges and immunities in their       impeachment inquiry and transfer that burden to the Senate.       An important difference between the House and Senate is that       House inquiries can be delegated to committees while the       House conducts other business; not so in the Senate, which       must sit as a court of impeachment until the trial is       completed. 

       Thus, during a Senate impeachment trial, absent unanimous       consent--unlikely given the contentious nature of the       proceedings--the Senate is precluded from any other business,       even during delays while executive privilege and similar       issues are litigated in the courts. Given that the House       chose to not seek judicial enforcement of subpoenas during       its impeachment inquiry because of concerns about delay, the       question is do they have a right to do so during the Senate       trial? If so, the President's lawyers claim, such an outcome       would significantly protract a Senate trial and permanently       alter the relationship between the House and Senate in       impeachment proceedings. Indeed, there is a strong textual       and structural argument that the Constitution prohibits the       Senate from performing the investigative role assigned to the       House. 

       The House Managers contend that Chief Justice John Roberts       could rule on questions of privilege while presiding over the       impeachment trial, avoiding delay during litigation, but the       Chief Justice made clear his was not a judicial role in the       usual sense.\13\ When the issue of whether the Chief Justice       would be a tie-breaking vote came up during the trial, he       said: ``I think it would be inappropriate for me, an       unelected official from a different branch of government, to       assert the power to change that result so that the motion       would succeed.'' So it is that the Senate, not the Chief       Justice presiding in an essentially ceremonial role during       impeachment trials, determines disputed issues. This       conclusion is further supported by the rule that a majority       of Senators are empowered to effectively ``overrule'' an       initial determination by the presiding officer. In the words       of Senate Impeachment Rule Seven: ``The presiding officer       may, in the first instance, submit to the Senate, without a       division, all questions of evidence and incidental questions;       but the same shall, on the demand of one-fifth of the members       present, be decided by yeas and nays.'' The unseemliness of       imposing this role on the Chief Justice is obvious and should       be avoided.      (5) The Facts 

       Of course, the main factual contentions of the House       Managers involve President Trump's interest in an       investigation of Hunter and Joe Biden's role in Ukraine. They       allege the President's ``corrupt'' motive to dig up dirt on a       potential political rival is an abuse of power. The       President's lawyers argue that it is clearly within the       President's authority to investigate corruption and leverage       foreign aid in order to combat it. Even if it incidentally       helps the President electorally, they argue it is not a       ``high crime and misdemeanor.'' 

       But there are more basic factual conundrums. Any       investigations discussed in the July 25 conversation between       Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and President Trump       never occurred. And the foreign aid, including lethal       defensive aid and weapons, was paused for just a short time       and delivered on September 11, 2019, before the deadline of       September 30. 

       The abuse of power alleged was based on desired       investigations and the withholding of foreign aid. But       neither, ultimately, occurred. This is similar to an       ``attempted'' offense under the criminal law. Indeed, the law       criminalizes a host of attempted offenses. But the Articles       of Impeachment do not charge President Trump with any crimes,       including any ``attempted'' offenses.      (6) Burden of Proof 

       President Trump's counsel argued that the appropriate       burden of proof in this quasi-criminal trial is ``proof       beyond a reasonable doubt.'' This point was not seriously       contested by the House Managers who repeatedly claimed the       evidence in support of the Articles of Impeachment was       ``overwhelming.'' Manager Jerry Nadler went further and       claimed, repeatedly, that the evidence produced was       ``conclusive'' and ``uncontested.'' Manager Zoe Lofgren       argued that Senators could use, literally, any standard they       wished. 

       This is significant on the issue of the President's motive       in seeking a corruption investigation from President       Zelensky, one that included former Vice President Biden and       his son, Hunter, and the company on whose board he served,       Burisma. The House Managers argued, repeatedly, that       President Trump did not care about Ukrainian corruption or       burden sharing with allies and that his sole motive was to       get information damaging to a political rival, Joe Biden. 

       President Trump's lawyers contend that he has a record of       concerns about burden sharing with allies, as well as       corruption, and produced several examples. At most, they say,       his was a mixed motive--partly policy, partly political--and       in any event it was not a crime and thus not impeachable. 

       Therefore, the question arises: did the House Managers       prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the sole motive for       pausing military aid to Ukraine was for his personal benefit?       Or, did they fail to meet their burden?      Conclusion 

       Ultimately, the House Managers failed to prove beyond a       reasonable doubt that President Trump's sole motive for       seeking any corruption investigation in Ukraine, including of       Hunter Biden, was for a personal political benefit. This is       particularly true given the evidence of President Trump's       documented interest in financial burden sharing with allies,       and the widely shared concerns, including by the Obama/Biden       Administration, with corruption in Ukraine and the need to       protect American taxpayers. 

       Even if President Trump had mixed motives--a public       interest combined with a personal interest--the fact is the       investigations never occurred and the aid to Ukraine was       paused but delivered on schedule. 

       Moreover, none of the above conduct rises to the level of a       ``high crime and misdemeanor.'' The first article, Abuse of       Power, which charges no crime or violation of existing law is       too vague and ambiguous to meet the Constitution's       requirements. It is simply a conclusion into which any       disagreeable conduct can be lumped. 

       Finally, the second article, Obstruction of Congress,       cannot be sustained on this record. The President's counsel       argued persuasively that its subpoenas were largely       unauthorized in the absence of a House resolution delegating       its authority to a House committee. What's more, the House       never sought to enforce its subpoenas in the courts,       essentially giving up efforts to do so in favor of expediting       the House impeachment inquiry. The desire to meet an       arbitrary deadline before Christmas was prioritized over a       judicial determination in the interbranch dispute.                                   endnotes  

       1. See Declaration of Independence (``We hold these truths       to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they       are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights,       that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of       Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments are       instituted among Men, deriving their powers from the consent       of the government.'') 

       2. See The Records of the Federal Convention of 1787 (Max       Farrand, ed., 1911). 

       3. Johnson v. United States, 135 S.Ct. 2551, 2560 (2015).       Chief Justice Roberts similarly relied on Justice Scalia's       views when he raised due process concerns in the context of       an amorphous definition of corruption in the criminal       prosecution of public officials. McDonnell v. United States,       136 S.Ct. 2355, 2373 (2016). 

       4. A variation of these arguments came up in active       litigation related to the House's access to testimony and       evidence connected       with Special Counsel Mueller's investigation. The district       courts rejected the White House Counsel's position. See House       of Representatives v. McGahn, No. 1:19-cv-02379-KBJ, 2019 WL       6312011 (D.D.C. Nov. 25, 2019) and In re Application of House       of Representatives for Release of Certain Grand Jury       Materials, No. 1:19-gj-00048, 2019 WL 5485221 (D.D.C. Oct.       25, 2019). But those decisions are now on appeal, and the       D.C. Circuit heard argument in those cases on January 3,       2020. 

       5. See Kupperman v. House of Representatives, 1:19-cv-      03224-RJL, 2019 WL 729359 (D.D.C. Dec. 30, 2019). 

       6. See Order of Supreme Court dated December 13, 2019       granting certiorari in Trump v. Mazars USA, 940 F.3d 710       (D.C. Cir. 2019); Trump v. Deutsche Bank, 943 F.3d 627 (2d       Cir. 2019), and Trump v. Vance, 941 F.3d 631 (2d Cir. 2019).       The Supreme Court will hear argument in these cases on March       31, 2020. 

       7. Issues associated with executive privilege were       litigated and resolved in the courts well in advance of the       Nixon and Clinton impeachments. 

       8. See December 17, 2019 Interview of Congressman Eric       Swalwell by CNN's Wolf Blitzer (``Unless you send those       [witnesses] to us, we can only conclude that you are guilty,       because in America, innocent men do not hide and conceal       evidence. In fact, . . . they do just the opposite, they are       forthcoming and they want to cooperate, and the President is       acting like a very guilty person.'') 

       9. See Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137, 138 (1803) (``An act       of congress repugnant to the constitution cannot become a       law.'') 

       10. Monroe H. Freeman, ``Our Constitutionalized Adversary       System,'' 1 Chapman Law Rev. 57, 57 (1998). Justice Scalia       noted that the adversarial system is founded on ``the       presence of a judge who does not (as the inquisitor does)       conduct the factual and legal investigation himself, but       instead decides on the basis of facts and arguments pro and       con adduced by the parties.'' McNeil v. Wisconsin, 501 U.S.       171, 181 n.2 (1991). 

       11. Id. 

       12. Id. 

       13. As even one of the witnesses who testified in the House       has recognized, the Constitution designates the Chief Justice       to serve as presiding officer of the Senate for presidential       impeachments because the Framers understood the obvious       conflict of interest and tension in allowing the Vice       President to preside over the trial of the President. Michael       Gerhardt, The Constitutional Limits to Impeachment and Its       Alternatives, 68 Texas Law Review 1, 98 (1989).  

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT