National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695530/national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, it seems these days--and this is not a  great development, but it seems these days as if Democrats love to hate  anything that Republicans--and particularly President Trump--suggest or  propose or do, especially when it comes to ways to try to shrink the  size of our government and rightsize bloated Federal programs.

They have spent a lot of time and energy catastrophizing about all  the supposed dangers of the One Big Beautiful Bill--one of the most  important achievements of this administration and Congress so far. The  truth about the One Big Beautiful Bill is that it prevented the largest  tax hike in American history and puts more money back in the pockets of  hard-working Americans.

Now, you would think that alone would be a good reason to support the  One Big Beautiful Bill, but there is more.

The main way they have opposed that bill is by mischaracterizing it  and outright misrepresenting what is contained in it. One of the  accusations made is that it will take away healthcare coverage from  people who need it.

Democratic Leader Senator Schumer said of the bill:

There is nothing beautiful about stripping away people's       healthcare, forcing kids to go hungry, denying communities       the resources they need, and increasing poverty.

Minority whip Senator Durbin claimed that we are going to be taking  coverage away from 16 million families.

Now, if true, these accusations would be serious, but they are not  true. In the more than 2 months since the One Big Beautiful Bill became  law, the Congressional Budget Office has shed some light on this matter  and I think done a tremendous job of truth-telling, and it is important  to delve deeper into what they have said about this so the American  people can know what the truth is.

CBO estimates that 10 million people will lose coverage due to the  One Big Beautiful Bill. Now, again, that estimate without context seems  pretty serious, but we have to ask, who are these 10 million people?  Are they elderly grandmothers? Are they disabled citizens? Are they  children? people who have no access to other resources? In fact, they  are not. And I have no doubt that my colleagues will argue that they  are in the coming months. In the coming months, ahead of the midterm  elections, we will hear more about that, which is one reason why I  wanted to come in and present the facts.

According to the Congressional Budget Office, 3.7 million of this 10  million--3.7 million of this 10 million--already had access through  another form of federally subsidized healthcare. That is more than a  third of that 10 million.

When we take this examination of the facts a step further, we see  that the Congressional Budget Office estimates that 5.3 million  Americans out of that 10 million are individuals who choose not to  work, which is one of the new requirements of the One Big Beautiful  Bill.

These programs are supposed to go to the deserving and the needy, not  to people who like to sit on the couch and play video games or  otherwise not contribute to their own welfare. Work requirements for  able-bodied adults were an important provision that I championed in  this bill, and I am glad we  got it done as part of this legislation. So able-bodied adults who  willingly refuse to work shouldn't expect a handout from the Federal  Government or the taxpayers who do work. It is only right that those  who are able to work do so or at least demonstrate they are actively  looking for a job or participating in some sort of job training or  volunteer services.

Those are other alternatives to work: looking for a job or  volunteering or training for work. Seems like a reasonable requirement  to me.

There is just no reason for taxpayers to continue to pick up the tab  for able-bodied Americans who choose not to enter the labor force.

And the truth is, we need them in the workforce. We need more people  in the workforce, which is one of the issues I hear people talk about  as I travel my State and around the country. We need the workforce to  be able to keep our economy going and to provide for those who need  help.

So able-bodied adults who are choosing not to comply with these work  requirements make up more than half of those 10 million who will lose  coverage, but they can change that. They can simply choose to work or  study or go to school or volunteer, and they would get those benefits.  But if you consciously choose not to, it makes sense to me that  taxpayers should not be required to subsidize that.

Next, the CBO also estimates that 2\1/2\ million of the 10 million  are not actually eligible for the program to begin with. That is a  quarter of that 10 million aren't even eligible.

If we want to make sure that our safety net programs work and are  stable, we have to ensure the benefits are actually going to people  whom Congress has made eligible for these programs in the first place.

As the Presiding Officer knows, one of the biggest issues confronting  our country is that we are $37 trillion in debt, and we can't just keep  printing money and spending money and bankrupting our country and  threatening the welfare of future generations. We have a present-day  responsibility to address that, and we know that the status quo was not  sustainable.

Assuring those who do not actually qualify are not taking benefits  away from those who do is only common sense. It is the least we can do.

But that is not all. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that  1.4 million of those who would lose coverage are actually not citizens  in the first place, which is another category of ineligible  individuals. So Congress has never authorized federally subsidized  health coverage for noncitizens.

I don't think the American people who voted overwhelmingly for  President Trump last November did so because they want to see taxpayers  subsidize illegal aliens' healthcare.

In addition to the categories I just mentioned, the Congressional  Budget Office estimates that the remaining loss of coverage will be the  result of reducing waste, fraud, and abuse within these programs-- again, something that is not particularly controversial, and I can't  think of a single Texan I have talked to who was supportive of spending  more of their hard-earned money for fraudulent or wasteful programs. In  fact, the opposite is the case.

So at the end of the day, when we look at the numbers from the  Congressional Budget Office that keeps the official scorecard for the  U.S. Government, the story it tells is far different from the tale that  our Democratic colleagues are trying to tell the American people.

The One Big Beautiful Bill is not taking healthcare coverage away  from grandmas who are on a fixed income or single mothers. Rather, the  reforms to the Medicaid Program in the One Big Beautiful Bill will  ensure that the money that is spent goes to people who are eligible and  who need it the most. That is the truth about the One Big Beautiful  Bill.

So as much as my Democratic colleagues love to hate it, at the end of  the day, this single legislative achievement of President Trump's  second term of office delivers necessary reforms that will make life  better for the American people.

Republicans will continue to never mind the naysayers and keep  telling our constituents the truth about the One Big Beautiful Bill.