Paycheck Protection Program


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, on to another matter, I was glad to be  able to get back home to Texas this last week, where our communities  are slowly coming out of a coronavirus shutdown. Churches have begun  safely welcoming worshippers, restaurants are beginning to safely seat  customers, albeit with the appropriate social distancing, and retailers  are now beginning to safely reopen their doors. After weeks and in some  cases months of hunkering down, it is a welcome sign of our progress in  the fight against the coronavirus and the first step in our economic  recovery. 

  When stay-at-home orders were first put in place, small business were  worried--understandably so--about their ability to survive. Many said  they couldn't survive more than a couple of weeks under those  circumstances. 

  Back in March, Fort Worth chef Tim Love described the situation as  ``Armageddon.'' He said:  

       It's worse than a tornado, it's worse than a hurricane,       it's worse than a fire. This is going to destroy everything       that I have built.  

  But the restaurants weren't alone; I heard similar concerns from  countless other small business owners across nearly every sector of the  economy--hospitality, tourism, retail, manufacturing, and the list goes  on. 

  Keeping our small businesses open means much more than having another  restaurant to eat in or a shop to buy from on Main Street; it is one of  the most effective ways to support our economy, by protecting those  jobs. Across the country, small businesses have employed nearly half of  all U.S. workers. They are the lifeblood of our local economies and  provide critical services to each of our communities. 

  Without customers coming through the front doors each day, it is hard  to cover your business expenses and keep employees on the payroll. In  fact, it is not just hard, it is impossible. 

  Whether you are a new business just starting out or a decades-old  community staple, the financial squeeze caused by this virus and the  mitigation efforts that ensued are unavoidable. 

  As we worked on coronavirus response legislation here in March, we  knew that small businesses needed our support. That is why we  established the Paycheck Protection Program and initially funded it  with $350 billion. This funded loans that were available for these  businesses to keep their employees on their payrolls and cover other  necessary expenses, and if they did so, that loan would turn into a  grant. 

  It was so popular--and it's not hard to see why--and the need was so  great that that initial funding ran out in about 2 weeks, so we wisely,  in my opinion, decided to replenish it with another $320 billion. 

  An IT and document management company in Sugar Land, TX, called  Function 4 was one of the recipients of one of those PPP loans. One of  the partners, Bill Patsouras, said that if it wasn't for the PPP, they  would ``absolutely have to start letting people go.'' But instead of  layoffs, all 89 employees of Function 4 are still employed and still  working. 

  This is a familiar story, I am sure, not just in Texas but elsewhere.  As of May 23, small businesses in Texas have received more than 350,000  PPP loans totaling more than $40 billion. That is an average loan size  of less than $115,000. These are for small and medium-size businesses. 

  In speaking to my community bankers last week, I learned that one  bank had approved a loan request for as little as $300. So while the  average loan was $115,000, some businesses needed far less than that,  including this one loan for $300. 

  No matter how large or small, these loans have allowed businesses,  churches, nonprofits, and some of our most  valuable community institutions to survive. That is not to say, though,  it was perfect--at least to start with. When it was first established,  no one expected the rollout to be perfect. I think that would be an  exercise in hope over experience because no government program this big  and created this fast--and we knew both of those were important. We  needed to go big, and we needed to deal with the need urgently. We knew  there would be some problems. A brand-new loan program drafted and  passed in such a short timeframe is bound to have some hiccups. 

  So over the last several weeks, I have been working and talking to my  constituents--as we all have--to identify what needs to be fixed or  improved, what gaps need to be filled; figure out what is working, what  isn't, and how we can make it even more effective. Well, I heard  repeatedly that the biggest need was for flexibility in the use of  those funds, and that is where they are needed the most. 

  The main goal of the Paycheck Protection Program is right in the  name--protecting paychecks. That is why we said that 75 percent of the  money needed to be used for payroll; otherwise you were going to have  to pay the money back. We said originally that the remaining 25 percent  could be used for a range of other expenses, like rent or utilities.  But based on the feedback I have gotten--and I am confident that I am  not alone--we missed our mark by establishing that 75-percent  requirement. For many who had no business because they were shut down  as part of the mitigation efforts, their payroll expenses--they  couldn't use the three-quarters of the loan for payroll--at least not  in the short timeframe we allowed for. They needed to be able to spend  more on other expenses, like rent and mortgage. 

  The company owned by Tim Love, whom I mentioned a moment ago, who  described this crisis as Armageddon, received a PPP loan and so far has  been able to hire back 80 percent of their 490 employees. A couple of  weeks ago, he participated in a roundtable at the White House, and he  asked for adjustments to give businesses more flexibility. He said:  

       We're not asking for more money. We're just asking for the       opportunity to spend it the way that you want us to spend it,       the way it was intended; to take care of our employees when       we're able to open up.  

  That is precisely what we are working to do, and I hope we can get  legislation to the President's desk this week to make those needed  changes. 

  Last week, the House passed a bill to provide that flexibility for  small businesses to use these funds where they are needed most. This  effort was spearheaded by a fellow member of the Texas delegation,  Congressman Chip Roy, and it passed by a vote of 417 to 1--a rare feat  these days in the House of Representatives. 

  The bill will reduce the level of funds that must be used on payroll  from 75 percent to 60 percent. This will make sure that the bulk of the  funding continues to protect jobs and support workers, while giving  businesses the flexibility they need to stay viable. 

  This legislation also gives borrowers another valuable asset, and  that is the asset of time. The PPP as originally written gave borrowers  8 weeks to use these funds, and I have repeatedly heard from my  constituents that 8 weeks is simply not enough. For those who received  these loans at the outset in early April, their window to use the PPP  loan is quickly closing, and although businesses are now just starting  to safely reopen, it is going to take some time before we find our new  normal. 

  I don't think we want a situation where, after being back at work for  8 weeks, employees are let go because of an administrative policy that  makes no sense. It is completely arbitrary, and that is exactly what  could happen if we don't act. The bill passed by the House would extend  that period of time to 24 weeks for borrowers to use those funds. It  will ensure that businesses and nonprofits have the time to safely  reopen and rebuild their operations while using the PPP to help cover  payroll and other business expenses. This would be a win-win. I rarely  have heard from my constituents back home that we have done anything  that has been so universally appreciated as the PPP program, or the  Paycheck Protection Program.  

  This legislation that has passed the House and I hope we will take up  and pass this week extends the benefits of this incredible program and  provides more stability for small businesses without spending anymore  taxpayer dollars. It doesn't cost us anything. Giving small businesses  and nonprofits more flexibility to use this money when and where it is  needed is important to our long-term recovery. 

  I have heard very positive feedback about these changes from the  small business owners I represent, and I am eager to support the  passage of the latest House bill here in the Senate. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT