Paycheck Protection Program


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, my home State of Texas is a great place  to do business. We keep taxes, government spending, and regulations at  a rational minimum in order to give people and businesses the freedom  to pursue their dreams and prosper. Texas is consistently ranked on the  list of the ``Best States for Business,'' the ``Best States to Start a  Business,'' and the ``Best States for Female Entrepreneurs.'' 

  According to the Small Business Administration, there are more than  2.6 million small businesses throughout the State, accounting for 99.8  percent of all Texas businesses. Those businesses employ nearly half of  our State's workforce and account for the massive portion of our Texas  economy. 

  To say that the small businesses are an economic force in Texas would  only paint half the picture. In big cities and in small towns alike,  these businesses play a critical role in our communities--the locally  owned restaurants and bars we visit, the gyms that are part of our  regular routine, the dry cleaners, the pharmacies and the hardware  stores we stop at when we run errands. But our small businesses aren't  just employers or generators of sales tax. They are owned by our  friends and our neighbors and are part of the very fabric of our  community. 

  Right now, they are under severe stress and in real jeopardy. The  coronavirus has kept Texans at home and put our small businesses into  serious financial trouble. When stay-at-home orders were put in place,  many were forced to close their doors outright. Over the last several  weeks, like many of my colleagues, I have held innumerable video  conferences with chambers of commerce, small business owners, and  others who have told me about the difficult decisions they have been  forced to make in the wake of this virus. 

  Without any demand, without an opportunity to sell their services or  the food or other material they provide, they had to lay off employees  or reduce their pay, and some were more concerned that they couldn't  survive more than a few weeks because they still had to pay the rent  and their overhead. 

  Those struggles are familiar for businesses across the country, and  that is why we, together--literally, unanimously, in the Senate-- created the Paycheck Protection Program. This new loan program was  designed to help America's small businesses and their employees manage  these uncharted waters by providing 8 weeks of cash flow assistance to  cover payroll and other business-related expenses. 

  As we now know, it was so popular and so needed that the initial $350  billion we funded ran out in less than 2 weeks. From that batch of  funding bill, Texas received more loans than any other State. Nearly  135,000 small businesses benefited from the Paycheck Protection  Program--a sum total of  28.5 billion. That is just from the first $350 billion we appropriated.  It became obvious that there was more demand than supply, and so we had  to then replenish the program with an initial $320 billion. So far,  $670 billion has gone into the Paycheck Protection Program. These are  astronomical numbers, but, obviously, the need was serious, and this  appears to be meeting a very real need to keep these businesses afloat,  along with their employees. 

  Since our small businesses have gotten these funds, there is no  shortage of stories about the positive impact they have had in my  State, and I am sure each of us can tell similar stories. 

  One of the recipients of a PPP loan is Sevy's Grill, which has been a  favorite in Dallas for more than two decades. Like other restaurants  throughout Texas, the stay-at-home order put them in a very tough  financial spot, and the restaurant closed in March without an end in  sight. Then a lifeline came in the form of the Paycheck Protection  Program. 

  A Facebook post from the restaurant read: ``We are blessed to be a  part of the Paycheck Protection Program to help fund our comeback.'' 

  They reopened at the end of April with a ``Valet-to-Go'' program,  just in time to celebrate their 23rd anniversary last Friday and  Mother's Day over the weekend. 

  There is also another company called JuiceLand, an Austin-based  company with locations in Dallas and Houston as well. Matt Shook is the  founder and CEO. He says they were preparing for a busy spring, but  instead of having their nearly three dozen locations full of customers,  he had to close 25 stores and lay off 300 employees. He said: ``Every  day it's like being at a poker table and getting bad hands every  hand.'' 

  But Matt was then dealt with a few good cards. JuiceLand received its  Paycheck Protection Program loan. He began to reopen the stores and to  hire back his employees. He said that this loan is going to be the  difference in keeping his company afloat. 

  The businesses that have received these loans were in danger of  drowning until Congress, working together in a bipartisan way, threw  them a lifeline. But now they are facing another risk that could bring  a second wave of devastation and danger. Across the country, we are  starting to see coronavirus-related litigation filed by the hundreds of  cases--patients or their families suing doctors, students suing  universities, employees and customers suing businesses--and this is  just the beginning. As more States begin to restart their economies, we  can expect a tidal wave of lawsuits to follow. 

  And while there is and should absolutely be legal recourse for those  with legitimate claims, there are serious concerns about the number of  frivolous claims and nuisance lawsuits we are expecting to see. 

  Imagine you are the owner of a small restaurant. Once stay-at-home  orders were put in place, you did it the way you were asked, and you  tried to keep your business going and your employees on payroll. You  received a PPP loan, which helped you and your workforce survive until  you could reopen your doors. And once that happened, you took every  precaution and followed every guideline to protect your employees and  your customers. 

  You did your best to follow all government guidelines and regulations  to a T. You stayed in close communication with your employees about  their health and required anyone who was not feeling well to stay home.  Your employees wore masks and gloves and had their temperatures checked  at the start of each shift. You did your best to clean high-touch  surfaces, maintained social distancing in the restaurant, and had hand  sanitizer available for customers and employees. But then you find out  you are being sued because someone claims that they contracted the  virus at your place of business and they claimed that it happened  because of your negligence and either you knew or you should have  known. The legal nightmare you are about to enter could have your  business filing for bankruptcy by the end of the year, even if the  claim proved to be without merit. 

  The expense and the time and the effort that we want people putting  back into the business to help rebuild our economy--they are going to  have to use that to defend a nuisance lawsuit and perhaps pay money  just so they don't have to continue to pay a lawyer to defend them in  court. 

  Without action in this Congress, this is going to be a familiar story  for small business owners, doctors, nurses, first responders--anyone  and everyone who could potentially be blamed for another person  contracting the virus. 

  We are all familiar with those who are ready to jump at the  opportunity to file a suit over this and similar matters, whether or  not their case has legs. You can imagine the TV ads and the highway  billboards we will see encouraging you to call some 1-800 number if you  have been impacted by the coronavirus, only to be connected with a  lawyer to file a lawsuit--again, regardless of merit. 

  Let me be clear. As a recovering lawyer myself, I don't think all  lawyers are bad, but we do know there are venal people who will take  advantage of the opportunity. 

  Again, let me just say I have no doubt there have been and will be  legitimate lawsuits targeting bad actors. If there is willful or  reckless disregard for the person affected, they should have every  right to sue and be made whole. But we need to take action against  these frivolous lawsuits tying up our courts, bankrupting our  businesses, and discouraging our economy from reopening. 

  This is not without some precedent. In the past, Congress has  provided similar protections for businesses and workers who followed  guidelines and acted in good faith. For example, there was the  Volunteer Protection Act of 1997, which provided legal protection for  volunteers who worked at nonprofits. There was the Y2K Act of 1999,  which gave protections to businesses if they followed government  guidelines in good faith with regard to Y2K computer glitches. There  was the Coverdell Teacher Protection Act of 2001, which gave protection  to teachers and educators. 

  It is simply time for Congress to once again exercise our  constitutional authority to provide reasonable liability protections  for employers and workers who are operating in good faith and following  government and public health guidelines. 

  There is no effort to allow bad behavior or protect those who are  grossly negligent, period. In fact, if you think about it, providing a  safe harbor for those businesses that follow public health and  government guidelines will actually encourage them to do so, which will  actually further protect the public and their employees. 

  The types of liability limitations my colleagues and I are interested  in providing would simply prevent frivolous and nuisance lawsuits from  harassing our frontline healthcare workers and small businesses which  were acting reasonably and complying in good faith with health  guidelines. 

  If you are a business owner debating whether to reopen once you are  able, this lawsuit frenzy could be the deciding factor. You may just  decide to throw in the towel, and we all would be losers, not the least  of whom would be the employees who get their jobs from that employer. 

  Would you risk a potential lawsuit that would tie you up in courts  for months, if not years, on end and bankrupt your business even though  you are prepared to follow health guidance? Well, I think many will not  be inclined to open up under those circumstances. 

  Without limiting liability for our small business owners and workers,  our economic recovery will be stunted as a result of the fear of the  negative impact of these frivolous lawsuits. That is the situation we  need to address and prevent. 

  Congress has taken unprecedented steps to strengthen our Nation's  response to the coronavirus and minimize the economic fallout, and we  have done that together. The tidal wave of lawsuits that could come and  will come unless we act to limit that liability will undo every bit of  progress we tried to make. We can't allow our doctors and nurses and  first responders and small businesses to survive the pandemic, only to  find themselves battling a second crisis in the courtroom, an  existential crisis. 

  In order to strengthen our response to this pandemic, we must protect  those who are doing everything in their power to keep us safe while  following the guidelines their government provides them, and we need to  keep them  from having to suffer and perhaps not survive this second pandemic that  will be caused by opportunistic litigation. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT