Protecting Pain-Capable Unborn Children


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, earlier this week the Senate Judiciary  Committee held a hearing to discuss the level of care babies who are  born alive should receive. You heard me correctly. We had a hearing in  the Senate Judiciary Committee to discuss the level of medical care a  baby that is born alive should receive. 

  As heartbreaking as it is to even ask that question--as if there were  more than one option--this is a real debate and something that needs to  be paid attention to. 

  There are actually some folks who think it is appropriate for doctors  to provide something less than the highest standard of care to babies  who survive abortions, and there are those who believe babies who  survive abortions should receive the same level of medical assistance  as any other baby. That is certainly where I stand. I believe that all  life is precious and that every baby deserves a fighting chance.  

  I can't imagine that there is a divergence of view on this topic. Of  course, public opinion polling, for what that is worth, shows that the  vast majority of Americans agree. Last year, a poll found that more  than three-quarters of Americans support providing medical support for  babies who survive abortions. It is hard for me to believe that there  would be 25 percent on the other side of that, but, suffice it to say,  the vast majority of people agree with the proposition that the same  medical standard of care should apply. 

  Unfortunately, there are people who make up that 25 percent in  government who are in high-ranking positions and who wield a great deal  of influence on this question. Take, for example, Virginia's Governor  Ralph Northam. About this time last year, he made  comments which were deeply disturbing about how to care--or rather, not  care--for certain newborn babies. 

  He was caught during an interview. I would like to think he misspoke,  but he certainly didn't claim that. This was actually his view. He said  that after the baby was delivered, it would be kept comfortable. The  baby ``would be resuscitated if that's what the mother and the family  desired, and then a discussion would ensue between the physicians and  the mother.'' 

  What would be the subject of that discussion, whether the baby would  live or die? Presumably so. Instead of providing prompt care to save  the baby, Governor Northam--who is, by the way, a pediatrician, of all  things--believes that you should sit down and decide whether to let the  child live or die. That is not healthcare. That is infanticide. 

  In response to Governor Northam's comments--which, apparently, he  spoke not just for himself but for a significant segment, maybe the 25  percent in that poll I mentioned earlier--our colleague from Nebraska,  Senator Sasse, introduced a bill called the Born-Alive Abortion  Survivors Protection Act. This legislation is very straightforward. It  would require doctors who treat babies who survive an abortion with the  same lifesaving care that other infants receive. It sounds like common  sense, right? Well, common sense apparently is not all that common in  some quarters. 

  You might think that surely there are already protections that exist  for that newborn baby. That has to be the law already, right? Sadly  not. There are no Federal laws requiring healthcare providers to care  for these babies just as they would any other infant in their care. 

  Sadly, many of our Democratic colleagues in the Senate are just fine  with that. When the Senate voted on this legislation last year, 44  Democrats voted against it--against it. But for those of us who are  aligned more with the 75 percent of Americans who believe all babies  deserve that care, we are not fine with that. 

  This legislation would build on the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act  of 2002, which actually passed the Senate unanimously at the time. That  bill clarified that any infant born alive at any stage of development  is a person--again, a statement of the obvious--regardless of the  manner in which they were born. 

  Now it is time to clarify that each person will receive appropriate  medical care, no matter what their circumstances and how they happened  to be delivered and born. 

  One of our witnesses in today's and Tuesday's hearings was Dr. Robin  Pierucci, a neonatologist at Bronson Methodist Hospital. Dr. Pierucci  discussed the medical standard of care for babies born alive and  concluded that ``we are always obligated to care, whether or not we  have the ability to heal.'' 

  I agree with her. There should only be one side to this question--the  side that advocates for equal medical care for newborns, the side that  believes that all infants deserve a fighting chance, the side that  believes that life is precious and must be protected. 

  When I attended this hearing, it reminded me of an article that was  written back in 2004 by one of my favorite writers, Peggy Noonan. She  was talking about a Presidential candidate, General Wesley Clark,  running that year for the Democratic nomination for President. She  quotes an interview that General Clark had with the publisher of the  Manchester Union-Leader, Joseph McQuaid. Here is how the conversation  went. 

  General Clark says: I don't think you should get the law involved in  abortion. 

  McQuaid said: At all? 

  Clark said: Nope. 

  McQuaid said: Late-term abortion? No limits? 

  Clark said: Nope. 

  McQuaid said: Anything up to delivery? 

  Clark said: Nope, nope. 

  McQuaid: Anything up to the head coming out of the womb? 

  Clark said: I say it is up to the woman and her doctor, her  conscience. You don't put the law in there. 

  Back when the Supreme Court decided Roe v. Wade, it made clear that  at some point, once the fetus is viable, you are dealing with more than  just the interest of the mother. I know the whole debate over abortion  is divisive in this country, but at some point you have to realize you  are not just talking about one person but two people, and each of those  individuals has rights, and the State certainly has an interest in  protecting a vulnerable child. 

  In my State of Texas--and I dare say in Florida and in every other  State in the country--we have child protection laws in place which say  if you witness child abuse or neglect, you have a legal duty to report  it. Again, the law says, if you see a child that is being abused or  neglected, you have a duty to report it, and if you don't do it, you  are guilty of a crime. 

  How in the world we could reconcile these ideas that it is somehow OK  to deliver a child, even though it is a botched abortion, and not have  a legal, much less a moral, duty to care for that child is  irreconcilable. 

  I think it is really important for the Senate to stand on the side of  life. This is not an abortion issue. This is a matter of equal  protection under the law and whether we are going to fulfill our duty  to protect the most vulnerable among us--the children, who might  otherwise be abused or, certainly, neglected. 

  I am proud to cosponsor this legislation and to stand up firmly on  the side of our most vulnerable citizens. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT