Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services Relating to ``Patient Protection and Affordable Care


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, my Republican colleagues and I spent a  great deal of time this Congress focused on securing justice for  victims of crimes committed by illegal aliens.

Unfortunately, during the last administration, the Biden  administration was completely what I would call willfully blind to the  threat posed by people coming unvetted across our borders.

From Laken Riley, to Kayla Hamilton, to Jocelyn Nungaray, the victims  of illegal aliens are numerous and must not be forgotten. What makes  these tragedies so heartbreaking is the knowledge that many of these  victims could have lived but for the Biden administration's open border  policies and its failure to act responsibly and enforce the law. These  good Americans died at the hands of criminal aliens who should never  have set foot in our country.

But there is another category of illegal alien criminals who perhaps  are not so widely known, largely because the mainstream media outlets  refuse to report on the many heinous crimes committed by illegal aliens  each year. These are individuals who have endangered Americans by drunk  driving.

Every 42 minutes, someone dies in a crash involving alcohol. As we  have seen in the news, many of these crashes  have been caused by illegal aliens who jeopardize the safety of law- abiding Americans. They have killed or severely maimed U.S. citizens  and other lawful residents, depriving families of their loved ones and  causing untold human misery. Some of these aliens have driven with  expired licenses, suspended licenses, or no license at all and have  shown complete disregard for the danger this may pose.

Last January, two college students in Illinois named Katie Abraham  and Chloe Polzin were killed in a hit-and-run crash involving an  illegal alien who was drunk driving. Their killer, an illegal alien  from Guatemala, was charged with leaving the scene of a crash resulting  in death, aggravated driving under the influence of alcohol, and  reckless homicide.

Last October, Secretary Noem highlighted more than 140 illegal alien  truckdrivers who were arrested in Northwest Indiana during Operation  Midway Blitz. These aliens were found guilty of numerous crimes,  including driving under the influence, drug trafficking, theft,  burglary, assault, child abuse, domestic battery, prostitution, and  fraud. More than 40 of them had been issued a commercial driver's  license by States like California, Illinois, and New York. It is clear  that these States are not conducting due diligence if they are issuing  commercial driver's licenses to illegal aliens who threaten the safety  of American citizens on our roads and highways.

Of course, Texans have not been spared the harm committed by such  aliens, as we saw in the case of Arturo Cruz-Badillo. Cruz-Badillo is a  Mexican national who had seven--seven--DWI convictions, a conviction  for battery, and was removed from the United States three separate  times. But despite all of these criminal convictions and removal for  illegal entry in the United States, he was once again found reentering  illegally last August, hiding in a commercial cargo trailer. He was  sentenced to jail earlier this year for his crimes.

On top of the revolving door of removals because of how different  States treat DUI and DWI offenses, some aliens are convicted multiple  times but never removed from the United States.

As recently as last month, ICE arrested 118 illegal aliens in  California, including pedophiles, burglars, domestic abusers, and  serial drunk drivers. One of these offenders had four separate DUI  convictions, including one that caused bodily injury. He was also  convicted of driving with a suspended driver's license. Another was  convicted of a DUI, a hit-and-run, and driving without a license. Yet  another was convicted of causing injury to a child, a hit-and-run  causing property damage, and two DUIs, driving under the influence.  Finally, one of these criminals was convicted of DUI causing great  bodily injury, a hit-and-run causing property damage, and a separate  DUI.

Consider how devastating a car accident can be even if there are no  physical injuries. These accidents cause not only bodily injury but  property damage to a person's car, and it must either be repaired or  replaced, often costing hundreds or even thousands of dollars.

In the case of a hit-and-run, the situation is even more difficult  because the victim cannot get the insurance information, if it exists,  from the driver at fault in order to have the damage paid for.

For the one in four American households who lives paycheck to  paycheck, an unexpected car accident might mean having to choose  between repairing their car or paying their rent.

Of course, if the driver at fault is an illegal alien, it is more  likely to be a hit-and-run because they don't want to be detained or  deported. And even if they are caught, they are not likely to have  insurance.

As a father of two daughters, I believe the danger illegal aliens  pose to the safety of Americans is simply unacceptable. It ought to be  unacceptable to all of us and not tolerated. For this reason, I am  introducing the Stop Illegal Aliens Drunk Driving Act to address this  discrepancy in Federal law where these DUIs--repetitive driving under  the influence, driving while intoxicated--are simply winked at or  ignored.

This bill would make DUI and DWI offenses that result in death or  bodily injury an aggravated felony under the Immigration and  Nationality Act. Aggravated felons are subject to mandatory detention.  They are also ineligible for most immigration benefits.

Furthermore, this bill would ensure that any illegal alien removed  from the United States as an aggravated felon due to a DUI or DWI who  attempts to reenter illegally is subject to a penalty of up to 20 years  in prison.

Americans deserve to be safe while driving on our roads. Parents  should not have to worry, when they give their 16-year-old the keys to  the car--who has learned how to drive or is just getting their first  driver's license--they shouldn't have to worry whether an illegal alien  driving under the influence of alcohol is going to cause them bodily  harm or kill them outright.

We simply cannot continue the status quo of allowing aliens who  entered our country illegally or were allowed by the Biden  administration's open border policies and who decide to drive drunk or  under the influence--we can't allow them to continue to endanger the  American public in this way. For this reason, I hope all of my  colleagues will join me and support the Stop Illegal Aliens Drunk  Driving Act.