Senate Agenda


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697200/senate-agenda


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, on another matter, we have only three  scheduled workweeks before Christmas. Compared to what the Senate had  left on its plate last year, I think a great deal of praise is in order  for our leadership--Senator Thune and Senate Republicans generally--for  getting so much done in the last 11 months.

We started the year off with an impressive clip, confirming President  Trump's Cabinet at a record speed. We successfully passed a  reconciliation package, which will extend President Trump's tax cuts  for working families, known as the One Big Beautiful Bill or the  Working Families Tax Cuts Act, which contains far more than just tax  relief for the American people. We passed our first draft of the  National Defense Authorization Act in the Senate.

In addition to these impressive accomplishments, the Senate has also  passed the first tranche of government funding bills and a continuing  resolution to keep the lights on through January. While it may seem odd  to commend Congress for just doing its job, this has become a notable  achievement because it means we will not be here on Christmas Eve  voting on a massive omnibus spending package. That, unfortunately, has  happened too often in the past.

Suffice it to say, the first year of the 119th Congress, led by  Republicans, has been far more productive than recent years, but now we  have more work to do because we are not quite finished. We have a few  more tasks to complete before Saint Nick comes to fill up our  stockings.

First and foremost, we need to finish the National Defense  Authorization Act. This is a must-pass piece of legislation. It is  absolutely critical to providing the men and women who protect this  country with the finances and the resources and the training they need  in order to do their job.

The House and the Senate have passed their own respective versions,  which means now, the task is for a conference between those two  versions to reconcile any differences and pass that version in both  Chambers. Then the final version, of course, as we all know, can go to  President Trump.

As part of the process to finalize the NDAA this year, I remain  adamant in my provisions to address outbound foreign investments that  they be included in the final version.

We all know that the Chinese Communist Party is the greatest national  security threat--not just to the region but globally--at this time.  What many of us did not fully appreciate is how American investors are  directly supporting the Chinese economy and the Chinese military  through outbound investments to the tune of billions of dollars.

The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission noted that the  United States is ``the most important single source of investment to  semiconductors, quantum computing, and AI in China.'' In other words,  we are funding our principal competitor, and that competitor is not  only an economic competitor but is vying for hegemony in the Indo- Pacific and threatening a military conflict to take Taiwan any day,  week, or month in the future.

So why in the world would we engage in willful blindness, not knowing  what American investors are doing to help prop up the Chinese economy  and the Chinese military?

Failure to address outbound investment transparency is to pretend  that national security doesn't matter. And we don't have any more time  to procrastinate. The best time to act on this was years ago when my  initial outbound investment legislation was proposed and passed as part  of the Senate NDAA, but now, we need to finish the job we started back  then in this year's NDAA.

The last item on our plate, in addition to securing our national  defense, is to address our Nation's healthcare. The so-called  Affordable Care Act--better known as ObamaCare--was as dubiously named  as the Inflation Reduction Act, which did not reduce inflation, just  like the Affordable Care Act did not make healthcare affordable.

When ObamaCare was crafted, debated, and passed, Democrats refused to  work with Republicans to make it a bipartisan law.

So this failed experiment in ObamaCare that is now proposing 18  percent premium increases in places like the State of Texas this  upcoming year has been a complete failure.

President Obama said that if you like your doctor, you can keep your  doctor; he said that if you like your healthcare plan, you can keep  your healthcare plan; and he also said that it would reduce healthcare  costs by an average of $2,500 per American consumer--none of which has  proven to be true. Democrats preferred to write the bill all by  themselves and then misrepresent to the American people about their  being able to keep their doctor or existing insurance plans.

ObamaCare was a massive failure that left Americans disappointed and  our healthcare system virtually bankrupt. Ignoring this reality,  Democrats came back for more during the COVID pandemic, using a  national healthcare crisis as an opportunity to serve up more of the  same bad recipe for our healthcare needs.

Of course, we all know the Senate's secret sauce is deliberation and  debate. That is what we are supposed to do. The Senate is a forum where  colleagues  who may have different party affiliations and different ideas about how  we should solve problems can come together to try to build consensus  and to work through our differences to arrive at a policy framework  that gets at least 60 percent support in this body. The result of that  process is a product that has been stress-tested by Members on both  sides and one that works out better in the long-term for the American  people.

But with the COVID-era enhanced ObamaCare credits set to expire  according to a timetable set by Democrats since no Republican voted for  it in the first place--instead of working through the regular order to  come up with a bipartisan solution, the Senate Democrats have chosen to  play hardball. They shut down the government, denying paychecks to  millions of Americans, in an attempt to beat Republicans into accepting  their terms unilaterally. This is simply not the way the Senate is  supposed to work.

The Democrats' use of a government shutdown as a tactic to get what  they wanted--to extend this failed policy in ObamaCare--is a shameful  tactic, but now that the shutdown is over, Democrats have an  opportunity to reconsider and do the right thing.

President Trump has already given us some great ideas about how to  accomplish this and made the point, which I think is an important one,  that rather than send the money to insurance companies that have, by  the way, done very, very well and made a lot of money, let's send the  money directly to the consumer so they can choose what suits their  needs the best.

There are many good ideas that have been circulated. Senator Bill  Cassidy, a physician from Louisiana and a member of the Finance  Committee, has put forward a framework based on the administration's  proposals--bypassing the insurance companies and sending the money  directly to the consumer. I know others who have a lot of experience in  the healthcare field, like Senator Rick Scott of Florida, have  introduced legislation as well. So there are a lot of great ideas out  there.

We know that ObamaCare itself has failed and is unsustainable in its  current form, so we have a lot of work to do and not much time to get  it done. The goal, of course, is to make sure that everybody in America  can get access to healthcare and to make sure we don't bankrupt the  country in the meantime.

So all these ideas are a solid step in the right direction toward  righting the wrongs of ObamaCare and ensuring we put dollars in the  hands of the consumer or American families rather than in the coffers  of insurance companies and insurance company executives.

But to actually solve the healthcare challenges that this country  faces, we need to have a robust debate between our Members, and I hope  our colleagues on the other side of the aisle will approach this  discussion in good faith. Based on history, I am not overly confident  that will happen, but I remain hopeful.

So I look forward to working with all of our colleagues, as well as  President Trump, to come up with the right solution for healthcare that  actually relieves the burden of rising health costs on American  families, primarily caused by the abomination known as ObamaCare.