Senate Passes Cornyn, Burr, Warner's Secure 5G and Beyond Act


U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-NC), and Vice Chairman Mark Warner (D-VA) issued the following statements after the Senate passed their legislation, the Secure 5G and Beyond Act, yesterday to require the President to develop a strategy to ensure the security of next-gen mobile telecommunications systems and infrastructure in the United States, as well as assist allies in maximizing the security of their systems, infrastructure, and software:

"As our telecommunications technology advances, we must have plans in place to keep it secure from foreign interference," said Sen. Cornyn. "I'm grateful to my colleagues for recognizing the risks that come along with the rewards of 5G technology, and I urge the House to pass this legislation as soon as possible."

"It's imperative we not only understand the revolutionary value of next-gen communications, but also the security measures required to ensure the deployment of safe and secure 5G networks," said Sen. Burr. "I'm proud to work with my colleagues on this important legislation, which will bring together a variety of industry experts, further protect Americans' privacy rights, and better equip our nation with a comprehensive strategy as we continue to be a global leader in technology."

"5G promises to usher in a new wave of innovations, products, and services. At the same time, the greater complexity, density, and speed of 5G networks relative to traditional communications networks will make securing these networks harder and more complex. It's why we need a coherent, national strategy to harness the advantages of 5G in a way that addresses those risks," said Sen. Warner. 

Background on the Secure 5G and Beyond Act:

-Requires the President to create an inter-agency strategy to secure 5th generation and future generation technology and infrastructure in the United States and with our strategic allies.-Designates NTIA to coordinate implementation of the plan in coordination with: the Chairman of the FCC, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense.-Ensures that the strategy and implementation plan do not include a recommendation to nationalize 5th generation deployment or future generations of mobile telecommunications infrastructure in the United States.