Supreme Court


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, yesterday our colleague, the senior  Senator from New York, headed across the street to join a pro-abortion  rally outside the Supreme Court Building, where he made deeply  disturbing comments about two of the Justices sitting on the Supreme  Court. He said these words:  

       I want to tell you, Gorsuch. I want to tell you, Kavanaugh.       You have released the whirlwind, and you will pay the price.       You won't know what hit you if you go forward with these       awful decisions.  

  He certainly didn't mince words. The minority leader of the U.S.  Senate threatened two sitting Supreme Court Justices based on the  potential outcome of a case they are considering. That is the only way  to interpret what he said. 

  It is no surprise to any of us that the Senator from New York is no  fan of the two most recent additions on the Court, but a fiery floor  speech and a downright threat of violence are two very different  things. 

  We have heard some of our Democratic colleagues voice their  misgivings about the Court, but no one, to my knowledge, has sunk so  low as to threaten sitting Justices. As you would expect, the shock and  outrage were immediate. Liberal legal scholar Laurence Tribe denounced  Senator Schumer. Even Chief Justice Roberts issued a rare public  rebuke, calling the comments not only inappropriate but dangerous. 

  The simple end to this story would be that our colleague would  apologize to Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, and to the American  people, but instead of doing that, he has doubled down. His office has  accused the Chief Justice somehow of bias and said Senator Schumer was  referring to Republican lawmakers, not the Associate Justices, as if  inciting violence against Republican lawmakers is somehow acceptable,  too, in the wake of what happened to   Steve Scalise and other  Members of Congress just a short time previously. But the minority  leader did not fumble over words. He clearly named Justices Gorsuch and  Kavanaugh in his threat, and when it caught the inevitable firestorm,  his office deliberately tried to mislead the American people about what  he said. 

  ``[P]ay the price. You won't know what hit you''--those are not the  types of statements we need from any elected official, let alone one of  the highest ranking Democrats in the country, nor are they a good  example because others--maybe vulnerable persons--who hear words like  that may become incited to take things into their own hands in  innumerable ways that we can't anticipate. 

  Unfortunately, some of our colleagues on the other side, including  the junior Senator from Rhode Island, fell in line and chose to echo  the minority leader in criticizing the Chief Justice. 

  It doesn't matter what case is before the Supreme Court or what  ruling is ultimately handed down; congressional leaders must set an  example for the American people and respect the independence of the  judiciary and the three coequal branches of government. We have had  innumerable discussions about hate speech and threats of violence  against our leaders and politicians. The last thing we need is one of  the most powerful men in the country making a threat against Supreme  Court Justices. It doesn't matter whether you are a fourth grader on  the playground or a U.S. Senator--our lesson should be that violence is  never the answer and that words matter. 

  The simple end of this would be for Senator Schumer to apologize to  the Justices for his attacks, by name: Justice Gorsuch, Justice  Kavanaugh, and Chief Justice Roberts.                                 Coronavirus  

  Mr. President, on another matter, at the beginning of February, the  Air Force announced that my hometown, San Antonio, would be one of the  quarantine sites for Americans evacuated from China due to the  coronavirus. Lackland Air Force Base is home to an incredibly dedicated  and talented group of airmen, and I thank the Air Force for their  assistance in housing these American evacuates during their quarantine  period. Also, the State of Texas and the city of San Antonio have many  hard-working medical professionals, and I have no doubt that these  patients who developed symptoms have received top-notch care while at  Methodist Hospital and the Texas Center for Infectious Disease. 

  But there was and still is serious concern about the larger public  health impact this virus could have. A couple of weeks ago, I brought  together the city of San Antonio officials, like the mayor and two  members of city council, for meetings with the Department of Health and  Human Services and the Defense Department to discuss the ongoing  mission concerns and challenges. The mayor and the city council had  some legitimate questions and concerns they needed answered. 

  I felt like, at the time, the meeting was a positive step to help  encourage coordination between local officials and their Federal  partners, but now there is even higher concern after we learned one  patient was released only to later find out the test result indicated  her virus was still active. At the end of her treatment, in accordance  with CDC guidelines, the patient was tested on two occasions with a 24- hour intervening period, which was protocol at the time, and she was  ultimately released. Following her release, though, a test that the CDC  was unaware was conducted returned results indicating the patient was  still a weak positive for the virus. At that point, she was returned to  isolation, after spending about 12 hours in the broader San Antonio  community, including time at a shopping mall and a hotel. 

  While I am glad this mistake was caught and corrected, it raises  serious questions that need to be answered to ensure the continued  protection of the American people. 

  Earlier this week, Senator Cruz and I sent a letter to the Director  of the Centers for Disease Control, Dr. Robert Redfield, asking him to  explain how this incident happened and how it could be avoided in the  future. Now that the majority of the individuals who had been evacuated  from the Diamond Princess cruise ship, as well as from Wuhan Province-- repatriated Americans--have been released from quarantine, what steps  is the Centers for Disease Control taking to ensure they are truly  clear of the virus? How are they monitoring those released from  quarantine, and what public health risks does the larger population  face after their release? 

  After a lot of conversations, we also asked Director Redfield if  additional evacuees will be brought to Texas for quarantine and what  will happen if San Antonio's health resources reach their maximum  capacity. 

  I think it is fair to say that my hometown is carrying more than its  fair share of this international outbreak, and its residents deserve  answers. As we continue to see headlines about the spread of the virus  in Washington State, New York, California, and others, it is clear that  time is of the essence. 

  As we seek those answers, I encourage all of my constituents and all  Americans to read the best guidance on how to keep themselves and their  families safe. While this is a new virus, the same old techniques that  your mother taught you while you were growing up apply: Wash your  hands, disinfect commonly touched household surfaces, and avoid contact  with those who are sick. That is just common sense. Try to avoid  touching your face, be sure to cover your cough or sneeze, and stay  home if you are not feeling well. Those are the commonsense ways we can  protect ourselves. 

  I am incredibly grateful to the healthcare workers around the world  who are battling this virus and the dedicated scientists who are  working hard to develop a vaccine. 

  In the past few days, I have spoken with President Trump, Secretary  Azar, and my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee--who did good  work on this supplemental appropriations we just voted on--about the  need for additional coordination and resources, and I thank each of  them for their commitment in keeping Americans and Texans safe. 

  In this supplemental appropriations bill that we just voted on, I  requested funding for State and local communities--including San  Antonio--which have been at the forefront of this battle, and today we  delivered a big win for them. The supplemental funding bill we just  passed will make $950 million available for reimbursement for the costs  Texas and other States across the country have incurred while  monitoring and treating individuals exposed to the coronavirus. 

  I want to thank Senator Shelby and the ranking member, Senator Leahy,  for their work on this, and I am glad this much needed relief is now on  the way. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT