Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698578/trump-administration


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, we are back for a short workweek,  following the holidays, and, boy, is our plate full. But I think it is  appropriate to take just a few minutes to reflect on the incredible  progress we have made last year under the leadership of President  Trump, Senate Majority Leader Thune, and Speaker Mike Johnson.

Of course, one of the most important things we had to do in the  Senate was to confirm the President's Cabinet and various nominees. Of  course, our Democratic colleagues resisted at every turn, requiring  that we actually change some of the rules of confirmation to allow the  President to fulfill his mandate following his election and to get his  team on the field. Democrats not only were sore losers when it came to  the election of President Trump, but they wanted to deny him the team  he needed in order to actually do what the American people elected him  to do.

The most important piece of legislation we passed--actually, there  are a couple that come to mind, but one is the working family tax cuts  act. I heard the Democratic leader talk about all sorts of  ``affordability'' issues, and, of course, that has now become the  buzzword. Affordability is really nothing new in politics, as the  Presiding Officer knows. It is all about kitchen table issues. That is  what people care the most about. And there are a lot of things that we  have already done, without any Democratic help, to try to make life  more affordable for working families in Texas, in Nebraska, and across  the Nation.

But, obviously, we have a lot of work left to do. First, we have to  finish a full year of government funding. Democrats have prevented us  from passing normal appropriations bills, which have caused us to lurch  from potential shutdown to shutdown. And, indeed, they ultimately  pulled that trigger to the detriment of the American people and shut  down the government for a historically long period of time.

And for what effect? Well, a lot of people got hurt. A lot of people  got inconvenienced. Many people didn't get paid.

And what did the Democrats get? A talking point about healthcare.  That is all they care about. They did not care about solving any of  these problems, working together in a bipartisan way, which is what I  believe we should do, but rather to try to score political points and  try to embarrass the Trump administration and Republicans.

But we have to finish that full year of funding because we do have  another short-term continuing resolution deadline that expires on  January 30. But I know Senator Collins, chair of the Senate  Appropriations Committee, and Senator Murray and their counterparts in  the House have been working very diligently to try to get the first  tranche of appropriations bills across the floor so we can avoid  staring another government shutdown in the face on January 30.

Can you imagine how much actual work we could get done if we didn't  exhaust ourselves in the fights over shutdowns and lurching from one  deadline to the next? Well, maybe that is something we ought to think  about, and that is the opportunity cost of going from shutdown to  shutdown and all the spending cliffs.

I would hope our Democratic colleagues have learned a lesson from  their last misadventure, which resulted in the shutdown, and I hope  they will spare the American people and a lot of folks who didn't get  paid, who were inconvenienced, and for no real reason other than to  provide them a talking point in the upcoming election.

Again, we are happy to solve problems--that is why we serve here--and  even on a bipartisan basis, but we are not interested in government  shutdowns, which do nothing but try to advantage the Democratic Party  in pursuing a talking point leading to the midterm elections.

We have a lot of things to do between now and November of 2026. On  the healthcare front, we offered an alternative to the disaster known  as ObamaCare. There is incredible fraud against U.S. taxpayers in the  ObamaCare subsidy regime and, particularly, the enhanced subsidies that  were bumped up during the Inflation Reduction Act as part of the COVID  era.

But, unfortunately, insurance companies got rich, and the American  people were not well served when it came to access to their healthcare.  And the taxpayers were positively gouged by the fraud and mischief that  occurred under the ObamaCare enhanced subsidy regime.

We offered an alternative. President Trump said the money shouldn't  go to insurance companies; it ought to go to the consumer, because who  knows better than the consumer what they actually need in terms of  their health insurance coverage.

But, of course, our Democratic colleagues wouldn't countenance that.  They don't actually believe in consumer choice. They don't believe in  free enterprise. What they believe in is more government, more  expensive government, and we know that is not the answer to the  challenges that face working families when it comes to access to  healthcare.

Having choice to make a decision, not making young people subsidize  old people, not making people buy something they don't need, and not  foisting the bill on taxpayers by extravagant subsidies which do  nothing but enrich insurance companies.

Well, we know we have got a lot of work to do in that area, and we  stand ready to work in good faith to come up with a workable bipartisan  solution that will lower the cost of healthcare in the long term, if  our Democratic colleagues are willing.

Suffice it to say, we have our work cut out for us, though, in the  Senate. While this year has barely started, President Trump has lost no  time in defining the year with his usual strength and decisiveness.

You know, back in the Federalist Papers, they debated what the Office  of President should look like. And one of the things they talked about  is the need for an energetic President and head of the executive  branch. And, I must say, that is exactly what we got with the election  of Donald J. Trump to his second term of office--a President who does  what he says and is willing and has the courage to act decisively in  the face of various threats.

And, of course, the one that is now looming large is Operation  Absolute Resolve. This past weekend, in the middle of the night, in  Caracas, Venezuela, our brave servicemembers successfully accompanied  law enforcement personnel in detaining the illegitimate President of  Venezuela, someone who had become the head of a drug cartel and who was  working with our most concerning adversaries all around the world,  whether it is Cuba, whether it is Iran, whether it is Russia or China.

And, in fact, Venezuela had become a hub for illegal drug  trafficking, along with everything else that goes with that. And it  also had become a foothold for Iranian terrorist organizations like  Hezbollah and was using the money they were able to raise from illicit  drug trafficking to then send it to terrorist organizations in the  Middle East and to threaten peace around the world.

I want to say that what we saw demonstrated by the U.S. military,  working in cooperation with the intelligence community and the  Department of Justice and law enforcement personnel, was nothing short  of magnificent. It gives me a great deal of pride to know that only the  United States could have pulled off such an operation and brought  someone so despicable as Nicolas Maduro to justice in a Federal court  in Manhattan.

I wanted to thank all of our personnel who participated in the  operation. I hope and wish and pray for the speedy recovery of the  handful who were injured, and I think it is a proud day for the United  States.

It was a challenging decision, I am sure, to make, and there will be  many hard days ahead as Venezuela has to correct its course of actions.  And under President Rodriguez, hopefully, with the levers that are  available to the Trump administration and our friends and allies, they  will learn from some of their mistakes and allow a transitional  government, which will then be able to represent the hopes and the  dreams and the aspirations of the Venezuelan people.

President Trump's New Year's message to friends and enemies could not  be more clear. American strength is back, and we will stop at nothing  to ensure that the American people are safe from foreign threats and  especially here in our own hemisphere.

Walter Russell Meade put it well when he recently wrote:

The operation was a dazzling and magnificent act, and the       competence and resolve that it demonstrated will do more to       shore up American power and world peace than all the best       speeches President Obama ever made.

President Trump has made it clear to dictators around the world that  if they try their hands at making mischief, there will be consequences.  And I can guarantee that the illegitimate heads of the governments of  Nicaragua, Cuba, and others in the region took note of what the U.S.  Government is capable of doing if it is determined to do so under the  leadership of a decisive, energetic President like President Trump.

And I think it sends an enormous message of deterrence to adversaries  around the world and potential adversaries like China, North Korea,  Iran, Russia. When they see a demonstration of competence and  professionalism that is really second to none in the world, I think it  sends an enormous message of deterrence and helps make our country  safer and helps keep the peace.

But, of course, this represents a stark contrast with the status quo  under the previous administration. I think that is one of the things  that makes this so startling to so many people. After all the words  with no action, all the breast-beating about America under President  Biden, to see what President Trump is able to do, with the incredible  contributions made by the intelligence community, our military, and law  enforcement, has got to get the attention of our adversaries around the  world. We know, during the Biden administration, the world had become a  much more dangerous place because when our adversaries sense weakness,  it is actually an incentive for them to act.

I think it has been said before, and I think it is true, that Putin  would not have invaded Ukraine again if President Trump had been in  office. But with President Biden and then previously with President  Obama in office, he knew that paper tigers weren't going to hold them  accountable, and so they kept coming and taking whatever they could  grab. That makes the world a much more dangerous place.

From the first year of his Presidency, President Biden signaled  weakness and incompetence on the world stage, especially with his  disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan. His failure to secure the  southern border in Texas and in New Mexico and California and Arizona  invited the drug trafficking crisis that is continuing to have  downstream effects in our country even today. Hundreds of thousands of  Americans have lost their lives to the illegal drug trafficking coming  across our southern border.

And these failures, of course, do not happen in a vacuum. Our friends  and enemies around the world are watching--our friends to see whether  they can rely on the United States and our enemies to see whether we  will stand up for ourselves and defend our interest and our values.  And, of course, that shapes their actions and their decisions.

In February 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine, escalating a war that had  started back in 2014 and continues today with massive casualty figures  on both sides now ranging into the millions. October 7, 2023, Hamas  terrorists,  who are Iranian proxies, launched the deadliest attack in history  against the nation of Israel.

And all the while, China prepares for war. They have actually  threatened to forcibly take Taiwan. President Xi has ordered the  People's Liberation Army to be ready to do so by 2027, of course,  escalating tensions in the Indo-Pacific and engaging in provocative  joint military exercises with Russia.

Notwithstanding the chaos around the world, America was suffering  direct consequences from the drug war, as I alluded to a moment ago.  Cartels in Mexico and Latin America took advantage of President Biden's  open border policies and refusal to act where action was required. Of  course, they made untold millions of dollars selling these drugs and  transporting them beyond their borders into the United States, taking  countless lives and inflicting untold misery.

Now the Department of Justice has charged Maduro and his  coconspirators with transporting tons of cocaine into the United States  by moving the drug under the protection of Venezuelan officialdom,  including the law enforcement and their military, by providing  diplomatic passports to drug traffickers and facilitating diplomatic  cover from planes to move drug proceeds from Mexico to Venezuela.

Iran, through its proxy Hezbollah--which operates primarily in  Lebanon, north of Israel--they were embedded in Venezuela working with  the Maduro administration and helped collaborate to provide those  elaborate trafficking networks. And, of course, Hezbollah used the drug  trafficking proceeds to finance their own nefarious activities around  the world.

Back in 2022, Venezuela signed a 20-year economic cooperation  agreement with Iran, the No. 1 state sponsor of international  terrorism, an agreement between two of the most heavily sanctioned  regimes in the world, all designed to defy the United States and expand  their criminal enterprise.

In a hearing before the Senate Caucus on International Narcotics  Control that I chaired late last year, one of our witnesses described  Venezuela as playing a very important role in what they called the  ``axis of evasion,'' a global sanctions-defying network that also  includes Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea.

And, of course, Maduro was an important part of that within this  ``axis of evasion'' because he is the one that gave them a foothold in  our backyard in the Western Hemisphere.

And, of course, all of this went on during the Biden administration  and right under their nose, but they did nothing--virtually nothing-- about it. President Biden and Secretary Mayorkas turned a blind eye,  allowing these illicit happenings to continue while drugs poured into  the United States and totalitarian dictators and terrorists enriched  themselves and spread their misery.

But President Trump has now begun to turn the tide. He began on day  one of his administration with an aggressive immigration enforcement,  rounding up and deporting members of MS-13, one of the most dangerous  gangs in the world; Tren de Aragua, another dangerous Venezuelan gang;  and other criminal networks who had set up shop here in the United  States in our neighborhoods and in our communities.

Given the vast networks of these international gangs, it became clear  to President Trump that it was not enough to simply send them back from  where they came so they could regroup and reorganize. President Trump  and Secretary Rubio and President Trump's administration, rightly,  determined that further action was necessary. And, of course, that  began, most notably, with a series of strikes on drug boats in the  Caribbean designed to deter the cartels and disrupt their evil trade.

Now, by capturing Maduro, by enforcing an indictment made by a U.S.  grand jury in a Federal court in Manhattan, President Trump has shown,  without a doubt, that he means business.

Of course, the radical left is losing their mind, as they usually do  every time President Trump acts decisively and with boldness.  Protestors outside the courthouse held signs reading ``Free President  Nicolas Maduro'' and ``Hands Off Venezuela.''

I guess any jurisdiction that would elect a new mayor like a  democratic socialist, Mamdani, that is probably what you would expect.  So I don't think anyone was surprised.

But the message of Operation Absolute Resolve to our allies and  adversaries around the world could not be more clear: America is back.  The Trump administration will act with boldness and decisiveness. And  if you threaten the American people with drugs or terrorism or any  other sort of criminal or military attack, you better watch your back  because you could be next.