Ukraine


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690955/ukraine


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, America is an exceptional nation:  freedom of religion, freedom of speech and of the press; private  property rights; free and fair elections; the rule of law and an  independent judiciary. All of these help make us exceptional, but we  Americans often take this for granted because these principles, these  values, are so ingrained in our way of life. That is who we are. But it  also makes it more challenging for us to understand how different other  countries may be from us. It shouldn't be a surprise, though, if you  think about it. History, culture, economics all matter, but, sadly,  this is a lesson that seems like we and others need to learn over and  over again.

When it comes to Russia, it is worth recalling Churchill's  description of the former Soviet Union. He called it a riddle wrapped  in a mystery inside an enigma, but when it comes to negotiating peace  in Ukraine, we might be tempted to assume that Vladimir Putin is  working from the same playbook as other stakeholders. But that is  simply not the case. The fundamental differences between Russia and the  West have become all that much more apparent in the negotiations to end  the war in Ukraine. This is precisely what has made it such a difficult  challenge to end the war, and that is what makes President Trump's  efforts all that much more noble when we consider the monumental task  that he is seeking to accomplish.

As I have said before--and I will say it again--I am grateful to  President Trump for his leadership and his efforts to end the conflict  that has lasted far too long--for more than 3 years now. During his  first 100 days, President Trump has done more than President Biden did  in 4 years. He has made clear to the Europeans that they need to step  up and assume greater ownership of their continental security, and he  successfully persuaded them to increase their defense spending and  enhance deterrents against future aggression.

The President's representatives have led several rounds of  negotiations between the Ukrainians and the Russians--something that  President Biden did not even attempt--and President Trump has secured a  key critical minerals deal with Ukraine, which will help fund the  reconstruction of that country. It will help compensate America for its  investments in Ukraine's defense and dissuade future Russian  aggression.

But there is one significant obstacle in achieving a lasting end to  this conflict, and that, of course, is Vladimir Putin.

Succinctly stated, Vladimir Putin's Russia is a police state. In  Russia, people who buck the government mysteriously disappear or fall  out of windows to their deaths or are poisoned, imprisoned, or die of  suspect causes like Alexei Navalny. In Russia, the government targets  religious minorities, imposing fines and criminal charges. In Russia,  the government controls the media. Independent media outlets are  censored, suppressed, or shuttered if they do not conform to the party  line. Under Vladimir Putin, government redistributes private property  based on political loyalties, giving rise to the oligarchs that we have  heard so much about.

Then there are the alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity  committed by Russia during its invasion of Ukraine. Take, for example,  the bombing of Ukraine's civilian energy infrastructure during the  first winter of Russia's full-scale invasion or consider the mass  abduction of Ukrainian children. Thousands of Ukrainian children have  been deported to Russia since the start of the full-scale invasion,  with many having been adopted into Russian families or sent to camps,  where they are subjected to ideological indoctrination designed to  erase their Ukrainian identity.

The bombing of Ukraine's power grid, which was part of a state policy  of widespread attacks on the civilian population, further illustrates  the point.  One particular event in Bucha stands out. Russian troops intentionally  massacred more than 400 civilians, apparently as part of a systematic  clearing operation to secure their path to the capital, Kyiv. Russian  paratroopers from the 234th Guards Air Assault Regiment interrogated  and executed unarmed men of fighting age and killed people who  unwittingly crossed their paths, whether it was children fleeing with  their families or locals hoping to find groceries or people simply  trying to get back home on their bicycles. The victims of this massacre  were of all ages and professions. This massacre would be deemed a war  crime under international humanitarian law, and because of their  systematic and widespread nature, the killings in Bucha could also  amount to crimes against humanity.

So the Russian Federation under Vladimir Putin is nothing like the  United States or Europe, for that matter. Russia, of course, has its  own history, culture, and form of government, and I said earlier, it  can be easy for the West to assume, as we have done before, that our  values are shared by other countries, but that is most decidedly not  the case with Putin's Russia. Putin has made his unwillingness to end  this unprovoked and barbaric war as plain as day. He has shown no  remorse that his country is nearing 1 million casualties. He clearly  doesn't care about the Russian people, who have been sacrificed to his  fantasy of an empire restored, and his tolerance for casualties appears  without limit.

In fact, Putin has done nothing to justify the hope that he might be  persuaded to end this war. To the contrary, despite Putin's declared  cease-fire over the Easter holiday, Russia then proceeded to launch  attacks into Ukraine that killed innocent civilians. More recently,  Russia launched two ballistic missiles and 165 drones, wounding 11  people, including 2 children.

One 54-year-old Kyiv resident, whose car caught fire during the  attack, expressed frustration at the lack of progress for peace,  saying:

They can't agree on anything, and we are the ones who       suffer the consequences.

An 18-year-old student said:

People are just suffering all the time . . . It's still       very hard to see our country constantly being destroyed.

President Trump noted in a statement on Truth Social:

There was no reason for Putin to be shooting missiles into       civilian areas, cities and towns, over the last few days.

The President went on to suggest that Putin may not actually be  trying to stop the war. I agree with President Trump. There is no  indication he is trying to stop the war. Vladimir Putin is making a  grave mistake in stringing the President of the United States and the  rest of the world along while innocent lives are being taken.

In order to achieve peace, President Trump needs a good-faith partner  both in Ukrainian President Zelenskyy and Russian President Putin.  Notably, while Zelenskyy has met with the President several times, most  recently at the Vatican, Putin has not. Instead of working for peace,  Putin recently threatened to use nuclear weapons in Ukraine in order to  bring the war, in his own words, ``to a logical conclusion with the  outcome [that] Russia requires.''

How does this relate to President Trump's peace efforts? Well, we  should listen to Putin's own words. In a speech he delivered to the  Russian Foreign Ministry last year, Putin argued that peace with  Ukraine would require a removal of Ukrainian troops from the southern  and eastern part of that country, the demilitarization and  denuclearization of Ukraine, a neutral and non-NATO Ukraine, and the  removal of all Western sanctions.

The hard reality is that Putin sees this conflict not just as a war  between Russia and Ukraine but as a war between Russia and the West.

In this same speech, he says the West is primarily at fault for the  conflict in the world today and that it was the West that incited a  Ukrainian coup in 2014 and further unrest in Eastern Ukraine in 2022,  which necessitated Russian military action to liberate the people of  Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. Putin says that the war would have ended  long ago, in March 2022, had it not been for the West's supplying  Ukraine with weapons and political support and extending the conflict.

Likewise, Putin sees Ukraine's prospective association with NATO or  European peacekeeping forces an inherit extension of Western  imperialism, which he cannot tolerate. He even goes as far as to say  that Russia could not accept a cease-fire since it would give time for  Ukraine to rearm.

Finally, Putin shares a vision for a multipolar world to counter what  he perceives as Western imperialism and Russia's efforts to use  security and economic agreements toward these ends.

In sum, Putin does not see this negotiation as a means to bringing  about an end to the conflict in Ukraine; he sees it as a key piece to a  larger war against the West. In essence, this negotiation is much  bigger than Russia and Ukraine. We need to listen to what Putin says  but also watch what he does as he attempts to stall peace negotiations  while attempting to achieve his larger aims.

Putin's invasion of Ukraine just over 3 years ago is an obvious  violation of another international agreement that Russia was a party  to--the 1994 Budapest Memorandum. Under this agreement, Ukraine  willingly gave up its arsenal of nuclear weapons--the third largest in  the world--in exchange for security assurances by Russia and other  signatories. Russia went on then to violate the Budapest Memorandum in  2014 when it invaded Crimea and annexed the Crimea Peninsula. Then, as  we all know, Russia violated the Memorandum for a second time in  February 2022 with its invasion of Ukraine proper.

If Russia were unwilling to honor the commitments enshrined in the  Budapest Memorandum in 2014 and 2022, how, then, can Ukraine or the  rest of the world, for that matter, be assured that they will honor a  peace agreement brokered in 2025?

And, once again, Putin is threatening nuclear war if he does not  receive the guarantees of a further demilitarized Ukraine.

But if he thinks these threats are an effective method of  intimidating the United States and President Trump, he is mistaken.  President Trump has made very clear that he will not allow Russia to  continue doing what he calls ``tapping us along.''

Putin may well have been able to dupe Obama. He may have been able to  intimidate Biden. But any attempt to fool or strong-arm President Trump  will not succeed. If Putin thinks he is going to pull the wool over his  eyes or box him into a corner, Putin is in for a very rude shock.