Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, both at home and around the world, the  fight to defeat the coronavirus seems all consuming. It has changed  virtually every part of our lives, from the way we work to how we  grocery shop. It dominates our conversations, our news cycles, and  social media feeds. It is easy to feel like this is the only threat  that the world is facing right now, but even a pandemic isn't enough to  stop those who want to bring harm to our country or to the American  people. As our fight against the coronavirus wages on, our dedicated  counterterrorism and counterintelligence experts continue their  critical work to identify potential threats against our country and to  prevent them from being successful. 

  One of the most powerful tools in their toolbox is the ability to  covertly gather information about bad actors. That is absolutely  critical to national security. Yet our commitment to public safety can  be at odds with privacy and individual liberty. So we, as a country,  must have sincere trust in both the people and the processes that  govern that activity. That is why I fear that recent events have put  our trust of both in grave jeopardy. 

  Last December, the inspector general for the Department of Justice  released his report on the FBI's counterintelligence investigation of  the Trump campaign and its purported contacts with Russia. This 480- page report outlined a pattern of concerning behavior by those who were  charged with protecting and defending the United States and upholding  our laws. The inspector general has detailed a number of truly  disturbing and alarming facts about how the Russia investigation was  conducted, specifically when it has come down to the abuse of the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. He has identified 7 mistakes--I  think he was being generous in calling them mistakes--in the initial  Carter Page FISA  application and an additional 10 mistakes, or errors, in 3 renewals. 

  Now, these were not typos or misspelled words. These were significant  and material errors that misled and affected the independent judgment  of the FISA Court, or the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. In  other words, they presented erroneous information--sometimes by  omission, sometimes by commission--which may have affected the decision  of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. 

  To make matters worse, even as new and exculpatory information came  to light, this information was not provided to the FISA Court. In a  nutshell, this report raised a big red flag and led to the inspector  general's conducting a subsequent audit on unrelated cases to see how  widespread the problems were, but that audit revealed even more  problems. 

  The inspector general recently released an interim report based on a  sample of 29 FISA applications. For four of these, the FBI could not  even locate the Woods files, which were meant to include supporting  documents for the claims made in the sworn applications. For the  remaining 25 applications, an average of 20 ``issues'' were found in  each, with 1 application having 65 ``issues.'' You might as well use  the word ``errors.'' This is alarming and absolutely unacceptable. 

  The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act has been amended several  times over the more than 30 years that it has been law, particularly  since 9/11. In light of these developments, it is time to, once again,  strengthen the oversight of our Nation's intelligence activities and  restore trust in our critical institutions. 

  FISA reform is part of the congressional ``to do'' list. It has been  for some time, and it still is. Before key provisions could expire last  year, Congress extended these authorities through mid-March to provide  time for a debate over future reforms. Of course, back then, no one  suspected that we would be working on a pandemic response when that  deadline arrived. With the coronavirus spreading across the country, it  was hardly the time to debate the long-term changes that should be made  to this program. So the Senate passed a short-term extension. Had our  colleagues in the House passed that bill, those authorities would have  still been intact through the end of the month. 

  Unfortunately, as we know, that is not what happened. The Foreign  Intelligence Surveillance Act's authorities expired nearly 2 months  ago, and now our national security experts are without the tools they  need to keep the American people safe. That must change. 

  The bipartisan bill that we are considering today would reauthorize  certain FISA provisions that are important to our national security  while it would make significant reforms to prevent future abuses like  we saw in 2016. At a time when it is clearly needed, this bill would  strengthen the congressional oversight of the FISA process. It would  also take steps to prevent future abuse of the FISA Court by requiring  transcripts of court proceedings and increasing penalties for those who  knowingly abuse the process for inappropriate reasons. 

  One of the most significant changes we would see as a result is an  end to the call detail record, or CDR, program. This program was  created in 2015 to replace bulk collection with a more targeted  approach, but the program has been riddled with issues from the start.  Two years ago, the National Security Agency said that ``technical  irregularities'' made it difficult to actually implement the program.  The National Security Agency received a jumbled mess of call detail  records from phone companies, and it was not able to separate the data  records it should have received from the ones it should not have  received. As a result, it ended up deleting all of the records dating  back to 2015 when the CDR program was established. Clearly, this  program was not delivering the targeted approach it was intended to  provide. In fact, it just created more work--all to end up empty handed 

  This legislation will put an end to the CDR program. The National  Security Agency has said the cost simply outweighs the benefit, but we  want to make sure we are also not wasting valuable human resources on a  program that is failing to achieve its intended purpose. Above all,  this legislation will restore authorities our counterintelligence and  counterterrorism experts need to protect the American people. 

  In order for these authorities to protect the American people and  serve their intended purpose, we need trust--trust in the FISA Court,  trust in our congressional committees, and trust in the professionals  who actually work with these authorities. The USA FREEDOM  Reauthorization Act will go a long way to restoring that trust while we  continue to work on longer term reforms and empower our intelligence  officials to carry out their sworn duties. 

  This bill received broad, bipartisan support in the House, and I hope  it will enjoy similar support in the Senate. This legislation will  ensure that these critical national security tools remain intact while  it takes serious quality control measures to prevent abuse. 

  We can't have a repeat of the disastrous FISA abuse in 2016, and we  cannot allow these critical surveillance authorities to disappear. The  best of tools can be misused by people who are intent on abusing their  power. That is what happened when the inspector general revealed the  FISA warrants that were issued against the Trump campaign and Trump's  associates in an effort to try to come up with some evidence of  collusion and obstruction. In the end, not even the special counsel was  able to find enough evidence to be able to make those cases. 

  We shouldn't confuse the tools with the people who abuse those tools.  We know that the Attorney General, William Barr; Chris Wray, the FBI  Director; and Mr. Durham, the U.S. attorney who has been deputized by  the Attorney General, are currently conducting investigations that  will, perhaps, even lead to criminal charges, indictments, and  potential convictions of those who abused these authorities in the  past. 

  That should not change our attitude toward providing these necessary  tools--things like business record collection, roving wiretaps, and  lone wolf authority. By and large, these are tools that are used by law  enforcement on a daily basis for domestic critical cases. Yet we are  going to deny those tools to our counterintelligence officials? It  makes no sense whatsoever. Our counterintelligence and counterterrorism  experts rely on those authorities to keep us safe, and it is time we  return this critical tool to their toolbox. I look forward to  supporting this legislation and to restoring these lapsed authorities,  which are critical to our national security. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT