Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I am very happy that our first votes, not  only of the session but of this decade, are going to be focused on  supporting small businesses. 

  In America, we tend to speak about businesses with a sense of  reverence that I think is absent in other countries, and there is good  reason for that. So many of the great companies in this Nation started  out as small businesses, and some of the greatest companies in America  today are small businesses. We also have just under 60 million  individuals who are employed by over 30 million small businesses  throughout the country. 

  The Small Business Administration can play a very important role in  our success and in the success of these businesses by providing  entrepreneurs and firms with technical assistance and access to  capital, so it is critically important for the country. 

  Today, as we consider the nomination of Jovita Carranza to serve as  the SBA Administrator, I thought it was an important point to make.  There are some additional points I would like to make. 

  First of all, the position of Administrator is really crucial to  ensuring that the agency is functioning well and is successful. It is  also important that the Administrator be someone who is open to and  supportive of the need to modernize the Small Business Administration  and its many programs. 

  As we move into this new decade, it is really important that the  agency evolve to meet the unique and special needs of the entrepreneurs  of today at a time in which we have ever-changing and increasing global  and business climate adjustments that are occurring. 

  I think we sometimes forget that businesses today face a very  different environment than we saw 10, 20, or 30 years ago. So as we are  aware of these changes, it is important that, as policymakers, we have  an obligation to identify the goals that achieve our national interests  and that provide for our national defense, that create good jobs for  American workers, and then that organize the laws that we propose and  the reforms that we propose around those important items of national  interest and how to achieve furthering them. 

  The last time the Small Business Administration was fully  reauthorized was 20 years ago, in the year 2000, when just 42 percent  of households, for example, had internet access. Nearly everyone was  still using dial-up phones for access. It would be another 6 years  before the iPhone even existed. Back in 2000, Americans bought fewer  than 10,000 hybrid electric cars. From 2000 to 2020, those are the  changes we have undergone, and that was the last time the SBA was  reauthorized. 

  By the way, it also happens to be the year when China became a member  of the World Trade Organization. I say that because, today, American  small businesses--if you think our big businesses face unfair  competition, imagine the unprecedented threat in competing against the  Chinese Government and its Communist Party's systematic industrial  espionage and coercion, its large-scale subsidies for their own  industries, and its sweeping obstruction of market access to its own  country.  The challenges are extraordinary, and they require resources that allow  our small business sector to compete against these conditions and to  operate dynamically, to grow, to be innovative, and to be creative. 

  Small businesses need access to services and programs that better  position them to support not just our Nation's competitiveness on an  international scale but particularly with regard to Beijing's continued  economic aggression toward our Nation. 

  Just as the SBA was critical in building the technologies and helping  to spur the creation of the technologies that allowed us to be  successful both in the space race and, ultimately, in the Cold War, I  believe the SBA can play an important role in our efforts to compete  with Chinese economic hostility. 

  In that regard, it is important to note that the status quo is just  not enough. We need an agency that incorporates new and creative  programs, that focuses on spurring investment, supporting advanced  manufacturing, promoting innovation, and expanding our export  opportunities. 

  It is important to note, as I said earlier with regard to the SBA's  role during the space race and the Cold War, that innovation  breakthroughs we have often seen in our history have often been  contingent on private-public collaboration, especially in the space  program that also happens to have a commercial obligation and also  furthers our national security. 

  Small businesses and startups have historically always been essential  to developing the technologies and the commercialization of products  that often come out of those partnerships. But unlike what we have seen  in Silicon Valley--startups that venture capital firms tend to  gravitate toward over there--these technologies--the ones that are in  our national interests, which I just spoke about--require significant  time and resources to finance. 

  So on the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, we are going  to continue to work toward a comprehensive reauthorization of the Small  Business Act and the Small Business Investment Act to achieve these  ends that I have just outlined. But the leadership and the guidance of  a forward-thinking SBA Administrator is going to be essential, not just  to get it passed but to make sure that modernization works. 

  As the chairman of the committee, I am very eager to see the position  of Administrator be filled. President Trump nominated Ms. Carranza to  serve in this critical role back in August of last year. She has a long  and successful career, having spent many years in both the private  sector and government service. 

  She started her service at UPS. After 29 years, she retired from  there as vice president of air operations. Then she was nominated by  President George W. Bush and was confirmed by this body--the Senate--to  serve as SBA's Deputy Administrator back in 2006. She served there for  2 years and then went back into the private sector until returning in  June of 2017, when President Trump named her Treasurer of the United  States. 

  Last month, the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee  held a hearing to consider this nomination, and we voted favorably to  report her nomination to the Senate floor. 

  In that hearing, Ms. Carranza made a commitment to work with  Congress--to work with each of us--on the pressing issues that are  facing the SBA and the program. She assured us--myself, ranking member,  Senator Cardin, and other members of the committee--that she would  address the management challenges in the Office of Investment and  Innovation to ensure the integrity of its programs but, most  importantly, that she would appear before the committee after her  confirmation to provide an update on how she is addressing these  challenges. 

  She has committed to do other things that are important: to assess  the far-reaching rule governing the agency's critical access to capital  programs so that it is not restricting access to capital for small  businesses; to be communicative and transparent with us on the subsidy  models and calculations they are using for the Federal credit programs;  to fill the backlog of staff that is needed to properly run the SBA's  innovation programs; to ensure that Federal grant dollars are being  properly used--the dollars especially associated with the  entrepreneurial development programs to modernize the agency's disaster  loan programs; and to establish better controls to prevent waste,  fraud, and abuse. She committed to expeditiously establish a women- owned small business certification program and to provide responses to  Congress on several of our past communications to the agency outlining  proposals to aid small businesses against cyber threats, which is a  critical threat facing many of the small businesses in this country  today. 

  In the business meeting we had after the hearing, we considered her  nomination. I was pleased to see that the overwhelming majority of our  members on both sides of the aisle, including the ranking member,  supported sending the nomination to the full Senate because there is a  lot of work to be done. Restoring and expanding the SBA's historic  legacy of assisting businesses and meeting the international challenges  at hand are very important and very crucial. 

  I look forward to working with Ms. Carranza to modernize our existing  programs to meet the challenges we have before us and working toward  solutions that ensure that small businesses have access to the  resources they need to start, to grow, and to empower our Nation at  large. 

  I urge all of my colleagues to support this nomination when we have a  vote in a few minutes. 

  Thank you. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT