Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, voting to find the President guilty in the  Senate is not simply a finding of wrongdoing; it is a vote to remove a  President from office for the first time in the 243-year history of our  Republic. 

  When they decided to include impeachment in the Constitution, the  Framers understood how disruptive and traumatic it would be. As  Alexander Hamilton warned, impeachment will ``agitate the passions of  the whole community.'' 

  This is why they decided to require the support of two-thirds of the  Senate to remove a President we serve as a guardrail against partisan  impeachment and against removal of a President without broad public  support. 

  Leaders in both parties previously recognized that impeachment must  be bipartisan and must enjoy broad public support. In fact, as recently  as March of last year, Manager Adam Schiff said there would be ``little  to be gained by putting the country through'' the ``wrenching  experience'' of a partisan impeachment. Yet, only a few months later, a  partisan impeachment is exactly what the House produced. This meant two  Articles of Impeachment whose true purpose was not to protect the  Nation but, rather, to, as Speaker Nancy Pelosi said, stain the  President's record because ``he has been impeached forever'' and ``they  can never erase that.'' 

  It now falls upon this Senate to take up what the House produced and  faithfully execute our duties under the Constitution of the United  States. 

  Why does impeachment exist? 

  As manager Jerry Nadler reminded us last week, removal is not a  punishment for a crime, nor is removal supposed to be a way to hold  Presidents accountable; that is what elections are for. The sole  purpose of this extraordinary power to remove the one person entrusted  with all of the powers of an entire branch of government is to provide  a last-resort remedy to protect the country. That is why Hamilton wrote  that in these trials our decisions should be pursuing ``the public  good.'' 

  Even before the trial, I announced that, for me, the question would  not just be whether the President's actions were wrong but ultimately  whether what he did was removable. The two are not the same. It is  possible for an offense to meet a standard of impeachment and yet not  be in the best interest of the country to remove a President from  office. 

  To answer this question, the first step was to ask whether it would  serve the public good to remove the President, even if the managers had  proven every allegation they made. It was not difficult to answer that  question on the charge of obstruction of congress. The President  availed himself of legal defenses and constitutional privileges on the  advice of his legal counsel. He has taken a position identical to that  of every other administration in the last 50 years. That is not an  impeachable offense, much less a removable one. 

  Negotiations with Congress and enforcement in the courts, not  impeachment, should be the front-line recourse when Congress and the  President disagree on the separation of powers. But here, the House  failed to go to court because, as Manager Schiff admitted, they did not  want to go through a yearlong exercise to get the information they  wanted. Ironically, they now demand that the Senate go through this  very long exercise they themselves decided to avoid. 

  On the first Article of Impeachment, I reject the argument that abuse  of power can never constitute grounds for removal unless a crime or a  crime-like action is alleged. However, even if the House managers had  been able to prove every allegation made in article I,  would it be in the interest of the Nation to remove the President?  Answering this question requires a political judgment--one that takes  into account both the severity of the wrongdoing they allege and the  impact removal would have on the Nation. 

  I disagree with the House Managers' argument that, if we find the  allegations they have made are true, failing to remove the President  leaves us with no remedy to constrain this or future Presidents.  Congress and the courts have multiple ways by which to constrain the  power of the Executive. And ultimately, voters themselves can hold the  President accountable in an election, including the one just 9 months  from now. 

  I also considered removal in the context of the bitter divisions and  deep polarization our country currently faces. The removal of the  President--especially one based on a narrowly voted impeachment,  supported by one political party and opposed by another and without  broad public support--would, as Manager Nadler warned over two decades  ago, ``produce divisiveness and bitterness'' that will threaten our  Nation for decades. Can anyone doubt that at least half of the country  would view his removal as illegitimate--as nothing short of a coup  d'etat? It is difficult to conceive of any scheme Putin could undertake  that would undermine confidence in our democracy more than removal  would. 

  I also reject the argument that unless we call new witnesses, this is  not a fair trial. First, they cannot argue that fairness demands we  seek witnesses they did little to pursue. Second, even if new witnesses  would testify to the truth of the allegations made, these allegations,  even if they had been able to prove them, would not warrant the  President's removal. 

  This high bar I have set is not new for me. In 2014, I rejected calls  to pursue impeachment of President Obama, noting that he ``has two  years left in his term,'' and, instead of pursuing impeachment, we  should use existing tools at our disposal to ``limit the amount of  damage he's doing to our economy and our national security.'' 

  Senator Patrick Leahy, the President pro tempore emeritus, once  warned, ``[A] partisan impeachment cannot command the respect of the  American people. It is no more valid than a stolen election.'' His  words are more true today than when he said them two decades ago. We  should heed his advice. 

  I will not vote to remove the President because doing so would  inflict extraordinary and potentially irreparable damage to our already  divided Nation. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT