Providing Emergency Assistance and Health Care Response for Individuals, Families, and Businesses Affected By the 2020 Coronavirus Pandemic


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, we, in this profession, have a tendency to  hyperbole, meaning a tendency to stand sometimes and talk about how  dramatic a decision we are about to make is or how important something  is to the country because that is what we do, and it is sort of one of  the tools of this trade. 

  I think this is not a time in which it is possible to exaggerate the  impact of what we are confronting. I start by saying I think it is a  moment that should instill in all of us extraordinary humility and a  reminder that we are still mortal beings who cannot and do not control  all that happens in our lives or in the world. 

  We are facing a threat that emerges not from a human decision or  behavior but a threat that emerges from the scientific world, the  biological world, and one that I think we are blessed to live in a  modern time, in which technology allows us to solve problems faster,  but oftentimes our advances cannot prevent these things. 

  I think of the time when there will be plenty to look back at--the  decisions that were made by governments, by foreign governments, and by  officials. Like all things, there will come a moment of accounting when  we can decide what was done wrong and what was done right so we can  learn from what was done wrong and replicate what was done right. We  can learn from the past, but we cannot change it. 

  The one thing we can influence is the future. You can't entirely  control it, but we can influence it. We can influence what we do from  this moment forward. And when it comes to this pandemic, we can  influence not that it is here but how long it lasts and how impactful  it will be. 

  One of the real-world impacts of the crisis that now confronts us is  the impact it is having on jobs. We use that term loosely in politics  all the time: ``Jobs.'' We want to create jobs. We value jobs. It is  about having more jobs. I think sometimes we overlook the strong,  emotional, and psychological impact of jobs, of the fact that someone  wakes up in the morning and has somewhere to go, where they are  productive, and they are rewarded fairly for their productivity. It  gives purpose to your days. It gives meaning. It gives value. It is why  the absence of jobs is so toxic and damaging not just to the spirit but  ultimately to the community and then to the country. It is a  situation we have learned in ordinary times, and these are not ordinary  times. 

  We are watching a pace of job loss at this very moment that is  unprecedented, even in some of the deepest economic downturns that  modern man has ever confronted. There is not a single person who serves  in the Senate, works in this building, or, I would argue, in our entire  society who does not know someone who in the last 4 or 5 days has been  told that they no longer have a job. Think about that for a moment.  People who 10 days ago had a job in an economy that by all traditional  standards was doing very well and now have been told that they do not  have a job. The people they used to work for may no longer exist, and  there is no certainty about outcomes even when this ends. It is  impossible to exaggerate that. 

  What we are learning through this crisis is what we all have said we  know but are now realizing how much it is true, and that is, how many  of the jobs in this country are the result of a small business and not  of the companies whose stories are featured in a magazine or a  newspaper article. It is the ones we drive by every single day--the  laundromat, the dry cleaners, the coin cleaners, the bakeries, the  coffee shops, and everything in between--hundreds of thousands of jobs  in every community that depend on their very existence, and they are  disappearing right before our eyes. It is not because they did anything  wrong but because government has had to tell them, for the reasons of  public health that I agree with, not only that we cannot go there but  that their workers can't go there, and in many jurisdictions, they  cannot even show up. So the urgency to address this, I believe, needs  no convincing. 

  We have, as a starting point, developed a plan that I think will  help, that will do what we can, and I want to briefly describe it. The  plan is basically this: We need to get money into the hands of small  business across this country as quickly as possible so they can keep  the workers they have on payroll for as long as possible. We aim for at  least 4, 5, or 6 weeks. This is important because if you have already  been told you can't leave your home, and you have already been told you  can't go anywhere, and then to also be told: And by the way, you have  no job, and there is no guarantee that there is a job for you to go  back to when this all ends, the trauma is extraordinary. That is what  millions of people are facing by the second. 

  These are not job losses that are happening by the week or by the  month; they are by the second. Right now, somewhere in America, someone  is being told: We are closing, and you have no job. And tomorrow will  be the last time you will get a paycheck for the foreseeable future. 

  So our plan, ideally, would involve the following: Small businesses  will be able to go to a bank in their community. Ideally, in a perfect  world, it would be the bank they normally use, the bank they bank with.  Then they will very quickly--and I am not talking about in a matter of  weeks; I am talking about in a matter of hours and days--receive an  infusion of cash, equivalent to about roughly four times their monthly  expenses on payroll and on rent and things of that nature. And then a  year from now, those businesses, if they can show that they used that  money to keep everyone on staff and hired that was working for them  before this all started and paid them what they were paying them, that  money will be forgiven. It will not be a loan. 

  The important point to make about this is--I am not talking about an  SBA loan. I am not talking about going to a government building  somewhere or a tent in a disaster zone and filling out a bunch of  paperwork. I am talking about going to a financial institution,  preferably the one that you normally use, filling out a few quick  documents to prove that you are a business, and receiving a cash  infusion directly into your account that you can use to meet payroll  for the next 3, 4, 5, or 6 weeks, and we have a plan that does it. 

  Now, on this matter, we are blessed to have partners in this endeavor  like Senator Cardin and others on the Small Business Committee who are  not only some of the hardest working and easiest people to work with on  these matters, but whom we have been working with on these matters,  along with our House counterparts, for a couple of weeks. Except for a  couple of weeks ago, we could never have envisioned how widespread and  how serious this dilemma would become. 

  We don't have an agreement at this very moment, but I do believe that  on the general concepts--I speak for no one but myself, but it is my  impression that on the general outlines of what we are trying to  achieve, there is substantial agreement. 

  So we have some work to do. I will be in the Senate and here in  Washington, DC, around the clock until we get this done because, as I  said at the outset, millions upon millions of families and their  immediate and long-term futures are being determined by what we do or  fail to do. Rarely, if ever, do we truly confront issues in the Senate  of that importance. 

  I will close with this: It is hard to remove politics from politics.  It is hard to ask politicians not to be political. It is tempting to  use even situations such as these for the snide remark and the potshot,  and I imagine you can never fully remove it. I would only say this: If  we don't address these issues that are before us and do so rapidly,  those potshots will appear trivial in comparison. If we don't address  the challenges that are before this country now, no one can tell you  what the future looks like because no one alive today has ever been  there, ever. 

  Anyone who believes that what I am saying is an exaggeration, what  was life like in America a week ago today? What does it look like now?  If this pace continues, what will it look like 5 days from now or 10  days from now? We don't know, but it will be traumatic and potentially  catastrophic, so we must act. We will have plenty of other issues and  plenty of days and weeks and months ahead to bicker about the political  issue of the day and to take shots at our opponents. 

  Now is no time for games. We are facing the abyss. We are facing  circumstances for which there is no playbook, for which there is no  precedent, and for which there is no way to predict what happens to a  society when you tell millions of people they can't work, they cannot  leave their homes, and we cannot tell you how you will make a living  now or for the immediate future. 

  This is no time for games. This is a time for those of us who are  here to be here and to work through this as quickly as possible, or we  will all pay the price, and we will all face those consequences. They  are so grave, so unspeakable, and so unimaginable that I cannot believe  that we will not be able to do so and act quickly, swiftly, and  effectively. I look forward to making strong progress. 

  Our people need some hope. Our people need to believe that their  institutions in a moment of crisis can still work. We have a chance to  do our part to instill at least that little bit of confidence at a time  of extraordinary uncertainty. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT