Rubio Joins Bipartisan Senate Climate Solutions Caucus


U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) has officially joined the bipartisan Senate Climate Solutions Caucus, which is chaired by U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE) and Mike Braun (R-IN). Also joining the bipartisan caucus are Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). The caucus brings together an equal number of Republicans and Democrats to advance bipartisan efforts to address our changing climate. "Changes in our climate, such as the rise of sea levels, are measurable facts. Many communities in Florida are already dealing with the consequences of these changes and will have to adapt to and mitigate against their impact for decades to come," Rubio said. "I look forward to working with my colleagues to find real and responsible solutions in a bipartisan way." "I am excited to announce the addition of four new colleagues to the Climate Solutions Caucus who will bring important perspectives and diverse experiences to the group," Coons said. "We look forward to continuing the discussion on bipartisan solutions and engaging with leaders from the business community, state and local governments, workers, and advocates across the country who are identifying meaningful ways to address climate change and strengthen American competitiveness." "We have a diverse group of Senators who have joined the Climate Solutions Caucus, which is important because Congress cannot make significant progress on climate issues until we can convince all Americans that climate policy can make a meaningful difference without harming their pocketbooks," Braun said. "The Climate Solutions Caucus is aimed at addressing this effort, and I hope, through a bipartisan conversation, we can make real progress." "The science is clear. The climate crisis is already impacting Michigan's public health, Great Lakes, agriculture, and economy," Stabenow said. "Addressing this crisis will take a bipartisan effort on common-sense solutions. I look forward to working with my Republican and Democratic colleagues to combat this serious crisis and protect our communities." "Climate change has serious implications for the livelihoods of many people across my state, including fishermen, farmers, and those who are employed in our forest products industry," Collins said. "I have long worked to protect our environment by advancing bipartisan legislation to reduce pollutants, promote clean energy, and increase conservation.  By encouraging innovative, bipartisan strategies, the Climate Solutions Caucus will help preserve our nation's natural resources for future generations." "Let there be no doubt, climate change is a real, immediate and growing threat to national security, public health and our economy. The longer we fail to act, the more costly climate change will be. I'm hopeful this bipartisan caucus will work together on real solutions," Baldwin said. "Of particular concern to us in Wisconsin are the costs of infrastructure damage from severe flooding, crop and livestock losses from extreme weather, and increasing water pollution in our Great Lakes and inland lakes and rivers. These are threats to major parts of our Wisconsin economy. Taking bold action to confront climate change is not just an environmental goal; it is an urgent economic necessity for us in Wisconsin." The caucus membership also includes Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-K), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Mitt Romney (R-UT), Angus King (I-ME), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Michael Bennet (D-CO).The Senate Climate Solutions Caucus promotes bipartisan discussion about climate policy and advocates for Congress to play a central role in addressing the challenge. Since launching in late 2019, the caucus has held regular meetings with members and staff, including with Microsoft founder Bill Gates and with CEOs who are members of the CEO Climate Dialogue. Moving forward, the caucus will hold meetings with executives from Fortune 500 companies who are members of the Climate Leadership Council, representatives from the Global CCS Institute, member companies of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, ambassadors, and leaders from a variety of faith traditions to discuss their concerns and priorities for federal climate policy and opportunities for collaboration.