Rubio Names Delicate Periodontics and Implant Dentistry as Senate Small Business of the Week


U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, named Delicate Periodontics and Implant Dentistry of Wellington, FL as the U.S. Senate Small Business of the Week. Rubio released the following video message to congratulate Delicate Periodontics as the Senate Small Business of the Week.

"As Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, it's my pleasure to name Delicate Periodontics and Implant Dentistry of Wellington, Florida as the Senate Small Business of the Week." "Founded in 2017 by owner Dr. J'Nelle Delica, Delicate Periodontics is a friendly, welcoming dental practice which provides quality dental care with a specialization in laser periodontics." "She's a first generation American of Jamaican descent and she's a native of our state of Florida."  "J'Nelle had dreamed, since she was 13 years old of opening a dental practice." "Several years later, she achieved her dream and dedicated her career to treating patients and educating individuals on dental health." "Delicate Periodontics is also involved in giving back to the community through events such as health fairs where J'Nelle provides dental screenings for Palm Beach County residents." "In recent years, she has brought her dental expertise to Saint Ann, Jamaica, where she and other health professionals performed dentistry for patients who were in desperate need." "So congratulations to J'Nelle and the entire Delicate Periodontics team. I look forward to watching your continued growth and success." As Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Senator Rubio continues the tradition of honoring America's small businesses and entrepreneurs. The Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship oversees proposed legislation on matters relating to the Small Business Administration and investigates all problems relating to America's small businesses.