Rubio Names Tally Mac Shack as Senate Small Business of the Week


U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, named Tally Mac Shack of Tallahassee, FL as the U.S. Senate Small Business of the Week. Rubio released the following video message to congratulate Tally Mac Shack as the Senate Small Business of the Week.

"As Chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, it is my pleasure to honor Tally Mac Shack of Tallahassee, Florida, as the Senate Small Business of the Week. "In 2017, Justo Cruz decided to pursue his entrepreneurial dream.  "Trading in his 2006 Nissan for an old delivery truck, he worked hard to create the first Tally Mac Shack food truck, which sells comfort food but with a gourmet twist.  "Justo has grown his business year over year, partnering with his alma matter, Florida State University.  "Today, Tally Mac Shack has nearly 30 employees, with multiple trucks and locations and even has a concession stand at FSU's football stadium. "Tally Mac Shack has emphasized community service since its inception, partnering with local agencies and organizations including Hurricane Michael relief, the Down Syndrome Association of Florida, the Tallahassee Memorial Healthcare Cancer Center, and the Kearney Center for the homeless.  "During their summer non-profit program, they support one non-profit per week by donating a portion of their profits and providing a free visit from their food truck.   "Additionally, they recently became an official On Job Training partner with Leon High School's culinary program that offers mentorship to local students.  "They have been recognized for their service as the inaugural winner of the Capital City Youth Services' "All in Tally Award" and were honored five times as Tallahassee's best food truck. "Congratulations to the entire team at Tally Mac Shack. I look forward to seeing your continued success and engagement with the Tallahassee community."   As Chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Senator Rubio continues the tradition of honoring America's small businesses and entrepreneurs. The Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship oversees proposed legislation on matters relating to the Small Business Administration and investigates all problems relating to America's small businesses.