Rubio Applauds Committee Passage of Multiple Bills and Resolutions


U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) applauded the Senate Committee on Foreign Relation's passage of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Act (S.238), Bob Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-taking Accountability Act (S.712), US-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act (S.3176), Resolution Supporting Cuban Pro-Democracy and Human Rights Activist José Daniel Ferrer (S.Res.454), Resolution Supporting GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance (S.Res.511), and Resolution Expressing Support to Nicaraguans in their Peaceful Efforts to Promote the Restoration of Democracy and the Defense of Human Rights, and Use the Tools Under U.S. Law to Increase Pressure on the Ortega Regime (S.Res.525).

As a member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Co-Chair of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China (CECC), and Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and Global Women's Issues, Senator Rubio remains committed to advancing a broad foreign policy agenda that keeps America safe, promotes our democratic principles, and advances public health priorities.

Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Act

"Anti-semitism remains on the rise both at home and abroad and we must do all we can to confront this ancient evil," Rubio said. This bipartisan bill will ensure the Department of State has the ability to lead in combating anti-semitism in all its forms. 

Bob Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-taking Accountability Act 

"Following the tragic news earlier this year regarding former FBI Agent Bob Levinson, who was the longest held hostage in American history, the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations pays tribute to his life by passing this important bipartisan bill to help ensure American hostages will be brought back home," Rubio said. "This bipartisan effort will strengthen the tools within the Executive Branch to facilitate the return of American hostages held overseas."

US-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act 

"I was proud to reintroduce this bipartisan bill that strengthens our nation's strategic security alliance with Israel, a vibrant democracy that faces growing and unprecedented threats to its security and stability," Rubio said. "I hope my colleagues will quickly move to pass it in both chambers and send it to the President for signing."

Resolution Supporting Cuban Pro-Democracy and Human Rights Activist José Daniel Ferrer

"For far too long, the members of UNPACU have been targets of the Cuban regime's aggressions," Rubio said. "UNPACU's leader, José Daniel Ferrer, was arbitrarily detained for eight months on baseless allegations and currently remains under house arrest by the Castro and Díaz-Canel dictatorship. Today, the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations is sending a strong message of condemnation of the regime's repressive tactics and in support of Cuba's freedom fighters."

Resolution Supporting GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance 

"This bipartisan resolution commends the tremendous work led by GAVI and its partners on their efforts to expand vaccines and immunizations worldwide," Rubio said. "By passing this resolution out of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, the U.S. Senate reaffirms its support for Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance as they continue to advance global health initiatives." 

Resolution Expressing Support to Nicaraguans in their Peaceful Efforts to Promote the Restoration of Democracy and the Defense of Human Rights, and Use the Tools Under U.S. Law to Increase Pressure on the Ortega Regime 

"The world has witnessed the bravery of the people of Nicaragua, including members of the opposition, the clergy, civil society, and independent press who've been violently repressed by the Ortega regime," Rubio said. "This bipartisan resolution commends the opposition's efforts to restore their democracy, civil rights, and the rule of law. It also urges the international community to hold Daniel Ortega accountable for human rights abuses committed against Nicaraguans and urges the U.S. to continues to use tools available, including sanctions."