Rubio Releases Report on 2019 Accomplishments, Looks Ahead to 2020


U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) released a report called "Fighting for Florida: Mid-Term Update" detailing his legislative accomplishments in 2019. A non-partisan analysis produced by GovTrack ranked Rubio as the 2nd top leader compared to all Senators. The same analysis found he was the 4th top leader in 2018 and 5th top leader in 2017.

"At a time when Washington faces so much partisan division and dysfunction, year after year we have been able to get real results for Florida and the country," Rubio said. "Many of these achievements aren't reported by the media because results aren't part of the daily focus on conflict and controversy. But they are initiatives that will help real people in real ways to attain the dignity that comes from hard work, ownership, and raising a family."

The 20-page report, preceded by a short video, highlights Rubio's legislative accomplishments and provides a look at his behind the scenes efforts to influence policy in Washington. The non-partisan analysis that ranked Rubio as the 2nd top leader compared to all Senators also found he got bicameral support on the most bills and the most cosponsors compared to Senate Republicans.

Constituent Service Award. The Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) recognized Rubio's federal casework team with the 2019 Democracy Award for Excellence in Constituent Services. The team helped nearly 9,000 Floridians with issues ranging from veterans benefits to housing, including 3,700 through mobile office hours -- a 428% increase from 2018.

New Laws. Rubio wrote nine new laws in 2019, and more are already in the pipeline for 2020. One of those bills was the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019, which marked one of the most consequential changes in America's relationship with the Chinese Communist Party in nearly two decades.

Fighting for Florida. Working closely with the Trump Administration, Rubio ensured record federal funding levels for water infrastructure and ecosystem protection projects for the Everglades. He also secured significant funding for timber recovery in Northwest Florida, ensured production of the Coast Guard's new Offshore Patrol Cutter (OPC) remains in Panama City, and set the stage for Florida's seasonal produce industry to finally begin to receive relief from unfair Mexican dumping. 

Global Leadership. Over the past year, Rubio met with dozens of senior foreign leaders and traveled to Colombia, Kenya, Somalia, Djibouti, and the Bahamas. He has also become the de-facto leader on confronting China's ambition to supplant America and developed what the media dubbed "The Rubio Doctrine" with regard to Venezuela. 

A New American Century. In 2019, Rubio laid out two key planks that will be essential to the success of a new American Century: Common-Good Capitalism and American Industrial Policy. Both are built on timeless principles recognizable to any American: the dignity of work, the family as the fundamental institution of society, the importance of strong local communities, and a love for and pride in the greatness of America and its ideals.