Addressing Unworkable Funding Reductions in the Federal Budget


Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, today I rise with a letter. This is a  letter from Republican State legislators from my home State of  Minnesota, addressed to President Trump and Republicans in Congress.  Please listen carefully.

Dear Mr. President, Congressman Emmer, Congressman Finstad,       Congresswoman Fischbach, Congressman Stauber, and Ms.       Carlton, Minnesota has been a leader in providing access to       care and containing costs and now stands vulnerable to       unworkable funding reductions with some of what is being       proposed in the Federal budget.

A move to a per capita cap or block grant program will be       workable if the reduction is modest, manageable, and       accompanied by extreme flexibility. Too deep of a cut is       unmanageable in any instance.

Innovation is occurring in Minnesota within the current       financing and waiver structure. We are moving people with       disabilities into greater independence. Massive Medicaid       reductions could punish Minnesota for being such a strong       leader in greater efficiencies and better outcomes. It would       devastate the already lean areas of service we have been       working to make more efficient for many years

As Republican leaders in Minnesota, we have been partners       for designing a State Health and Human Services system that       meets the needs of our great State.

Just to emphasize what you already know, Medicaid includes       services and care for the seniors and those with       disabilities, not just healthcare for the poor. Additionally,       nearly 50 percent of all Medicaid enrollees are children.

Given some of the large numbers coming out of Washington,       we are concerned that there is no practical way to       accommodate some of the proposed massive reductions and still       provide the kind of care these vulnerable people require.

Drastic reductions to Medicaid funding have the potential       to impact the 1.4 million people we serve and place       incredible pressure on our overall State budget.

There are no other sources to make up the lost Federal       share beyond severely impacting the seniors and those with       disabilities who we serve.

This is contrary to how we Republicans respect the aged and       the vulnerable.

Deep reductions beyond what we can absorb will also put a       major strain on the State's ability to support our county-      based infrastructure. In our county-based service model, via       the property tax, counties already pay very significant       shares of human services costs, including child protection,       waiver management, chemical dependency, mental health, and       State facility stays, and have little capacity to absorb any       significant additional cost.

The only choices available are being forced to raise local       property taxes drastically or close services.

Finally, healthcare is a major employer in rural Minnesota.       Reductions in already-too-low reimbursement rates would not       only limit access but would also reduce pay and services,       hugely impacting rural economies and the rapidly growing       aging population in greater Minnesota.

Please remind our good leaders in Washington that simply       cutting the budget is not going to take away our       responsibilities to the aged, those with disabilities and       mental health needs, children, and the poor.

You can make a difference in this debate.

Please, please do.

Respectfully.

The letter was signed by more than one dozen Republican State  legislators.

Mr. Speaker, this is from Republican legislators to the Republican  President and the Republican majority in Congress. Their plea is clear.  The threat is real. The facts are undeniable. Republicans in State  legislatures do not want to gut Medicaid. Minnesotans do not want to  gut Medicaid. Americans do not want to gut Medicaid.

So why in the world are congressional Republicans teeing up these  massive cuts to Medicaid in their budget?

It is because they are singularly focused on giving massive tax  breaks to their wealthy donors, to billionaires like Elon Musk, and to  huge corporations. They are willing to do that by selling out  healthcare coverage for 80 million Americans.

That is it. It is really that simple.

I say to my Republican colleagues that you cannot hide from your own  party raising the alarm not to do this. You cannot hide from the fact  that you are choosing to rip healthcare away from millions of  Americans. You cannot hide from the fact that you are choosing to  decimate State budgets in order to serve your donors and your  billionaire elites. You cannot hide from the fact that your State  counterparts and surely your constituents do not want you to do this.

As we consider the budget this week, we need House Republicans in the  House of Representatives to finally stand with Democrats against this  disastrous budget.