Horrific Ice Abuses


Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, Minnesotans are grieving the loss of two  precious lives and enduring immeasurable community suffering due to the  ill-advised policies of the Trump administration and the failed  leadership of DHS under Kristi Noem.

Their systemic refusal to prioritize public safety and adhere to any  semblance of due process in my home State of Minnesota has shown all of  us that the trauma and suffering are very much intended consequences of  their policies. Cruel indifference to constitutional rights and human  dignity have become standard operating procedure for DHS.

There could be no more stark proof than the list of names behind us.  It is consistent with the harrowing firsthand accounts that I have  received directly from my constituents and individuals in DHS custody,  and it is horrifically clear in the videos documenting the killings of  Renee Good and Alex Pretti.

The impacts of these tragedies and aggressive operations continue to  be felt every single day and are staunchly opposed because the people  targeted are an inseparable part of the fabric of their communities.

Minnesotans are fiercely dedicated to protecting their communities.  They see themselves in their neighbor--not because of a shared language  or a shared place of birth but because they hold steadfast to their  shared humanity and to the belief that every human being deserves to be  treated with dignity.

Through a relentless commitment to freedom, community, and their  constitutional rights, Minnesotans have exposed the charade of this  administration's narrative. They are rejecting dehumanization and  division in perilous circumstances, many at great personal risk and an  immeasurable cost in the loss of Renee, Alex, and the 40 others listed  here.

I join my fellow Minnesotans in calling for Operation Metro Search to  end now. It is incumbent on every single one of us to honor their  resilience, embrace their courage, and put an end to this senseless and  preventable suffering in my community and in every community across  this country.