In Memory of Mark and Melissa Hortman


Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today alongside my colleagues from  the State of Minnesota to honor the lives of Melissa and Mark Hortman,  who were shot and killed in an unspeakable act of political violence  last week.

Minnesota House Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman was truly the best of  us. She was exactly the kind of person you would want to run for  office. She was a dedicated public servant who got up every day  determined to make life better for all Minnesotans.

She was a brilliant legislator and a tough negotiator. She was often  the smartest person in the room, but you wouldn't know it because she  was so humble. She was a generous friend, a good neighbor, and a mentor  to me and to so many others. She saw the dignity in all people and  treated everyone with respect. She led with humility, humor, and  compassion.

Her Catholic faith informed her work and she kept the beautiful  prayer of St.  Francis of Assisi tucked in her wallet as a guiding principle: Make me  a channel of your peace.

Melissa led us through some of the State's most difficult challenges,  often with a divided legislature, and the tributes that have poured in  from her former colleagues from both sides of the aisle speak to her  character and her leadership style.

She knew how to get things done and she did it with determination,  respect, and pragmatism. She built bridges across the aisle and she  kept her diverse caucus together to usher through some of the most  consequential legislation in our State's history. Her work and legacy  undoubtedly improved the lives of Minnesotans for generations to come.

Let us heed the words of Melissa and Mark's children who wrote in  their beautiful tribute to their parents, ``The best way to honor our  parents' memory is to do something, whether big or small, to make our  community just a little bit better for someone else.''

Let us all honor Melissa and Mark by leading with kindness and  compassion, by prioritizing civility and humility in our service, and  by always striving to make our communities just a little bit better for  someone else.

Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, I ask all of us to join in a moment of  silence in honor of Melissa and Mark Hortman.