Rural Small Business Resilience Act


Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my legislation,  H.R. 804, the Rural Small Business Resilience Act.

As the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Rural Development,  Energy, and Supply Chains, I am pleased to put forward this  commonsense, bipartisan legislation that will ensure rural small  businesses can operate on a level playing field.

This bill requires the Small Business Administration to ensure that  small businesses located in rural areas have full access to SBA  disaster assistance in the wake of a natural disaster.

The SBA's disaster loan program serves as a lifeline for small  business owners in need of capital to repair, rebuild, and recover from  of the physical and economic losses of a natural disaster.

Unfortunately, the Government Accountability Office recently found  that rural communities face unique barriers that inhibit recovery from  severe weather events like hurricanes, flooding, and wildfires.

A lack of reliable broadband, cellular service, or physical  infrastructure can make it more difficult for small business owners in  these communities to learn about and apply for disaster assistance.

We also know that natural disasters are becoming more frequent and  more severe. In my home State of Minnesota, natural disasters have  caused about $20 billion in damage and economic loss over the last 5  years alone.

Small businesses are among the most vulnerable to injury. FEMA has  reported that more than 40 percent of small businesses do not reopen  after a natural disaster.

We can all agree that every small business owner in this country  should have fair access to disaster assistance, regardless of where  they live. The Rural Small Business Resilience Act will address this  disparity by requiring the SBA to conduct targeted outreach to small  business owners in rural communities.

I will close by thanking the gentleman from Montana (Mr. Downing),  the gentleman from New Hampshire (Mr. Pappas), and the gentleman from  Florida (Mr. Bean) for their partnership on this important, bipartisan  legislation. I also thank Chairman Williams and Ranking Member  Velazquez for their support of this bill.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this legislation.