Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I call the Senate's attention this  afternoon to a pair of bills that are critical to the deployment of  broadband access across the United States and the worldwide race to 5G,  which we, of course, hope to win and will win. 

  The first of these measures will ensure that telecommunications  networks are safe and secure from foreign intrusion. The second bill,  which I hope the Senate will take up and pass even today by unanimous  consent, would help create highly accurate broadband coverage data that  will help expand access to high-speed internet. Both of these measures  are Commerce Committee priorities and are the result of extensive  negotiations and work on a bipartisan and bicameral basis. 

  Our economic and national security depend on nationwide access to  high-speed internet that is safe and secure. The threat of foreign  espionage through our broadband infrastructure is real, and it stems  directly from the Chinese tech firms, like Huawei and ZTE. 

  These companies are pawns of the Chinese Government. As a matter of  fact, for all practical purposes, they are wholly owned entities of the  Chinese Government, and they are putting on a full-court press to  establish their footprint in wireless networks around the world and  right here in the United States. 

  Huawei and ZTE receive massive subsidies each year from the Chinese  Government, and it is really beyond dispute that they are doing the  bidding of the Chinese Communist Party. 

  Some of our allies have come to realize this threat and have taken  decisive action. I want to commend Australia, New Zealand, and Japan.  They have all banned Huawei technologies from their networks. 

  I am grateful that the Trump administration has shown strong  leadership on this issue. 

  Last year, the Department of Commerce placed Huawei on its Entity  List, severely limiting its ability to do business with U.S. companies.  That was a bold step, but, unfortunately, some of our networks had  already been compromised by Huawei by the time the Commerce Department  took action. 

  So last week, the Senate took a major step toward removing the  Chinese threat by passing the Secure and Trusted Communications  Networks Act. 

  This bill, which some refer to as the ``rip and replace'' bill, would  rip out the Huawei equipment and replace it with reliable equipment  that will not engage in espionage. 

  This legislation will lay the foundation to give strong financial  incentives to U.S. firms to strip out their Huawei and ZTE technology  and replace it with secure alternatives. It will also help small, rural  telecom providers transition away from firms that are controlled by  Beijing. 

  That bill is now on the President's desk, awaiting his signature, and  it may be that he is going to wait until it can be joined by the  Broadband DATA Act, which, again, I say can be passed by this body as  early as this evening, when we adjourn. 

  In December, the Senate unanimously passed the measure, but because  the House passed a slightly amended version of the bill yesterday, we  need to act again today to get this bill across the finish line and on  to the White House. 

  The Broadband DATA Act addresses the Federal Communication  Commission's flawed maps, which the Presiding Officer and I have been  so concerned about. Every year, the FCC spends billions of dollars to  promote deployment of broadband across the United States. This funding  is especially important for America's rural communication, which so  often lags behind in broadband development. We have done a lot to close  the digital divide, but an estimated 20 million Americans still lack  access to broadband. 

  For years, Members from both parties have noted that the FCC's maps  have overstated broadband coverage, thereby understating the problem.  For example, for Mississippi, the FCC map claims that we have a 98- percent mobile broadband coverage--something anybody can say from  experience is not true. It is far from true. Without accurate maps, the  FCC cannot direct support to areas most in need. 

  The Broadband DATA Act will fix this problem by creating a new  database of areas in need of service, requiring providers to submit  precise data, establishing specific standards for data collection, and  allowing crowd sourcing to encourage public participation in the  process. 

  As a result, the Broadband DATA Act will also help target Federal  funds toward those areas most in need of assistance. These steps will  pave the way for more Americans across the heartland to exercise and to  access high-speed broadband and to enjoy the economic opportunities  that come with that. 

  Coupled with last week's passage of the ``rip and replace''  legislation, Congress has achieved an important victory for our country  and national security. 

  In conclusion, I want to recognize the excellent work of my staff on  the Commerce Committee, both the majority and the minority. 

  I want to thank my friend and ranking member, Senator Cantwell, as  well as Chairman Pallone and Ranking Member Walden of the House of  Representatives on the Energy and Commerce Committee, as well as the  members of their staff. Their efforts have gotten us to this point,  ready for the President to put a signature on these two very important  bills. 

  Thank you. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT