Broadband Deployment Accuracy and Technological Availability Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WICKER. Madam President, I rise in support of S. 1822, the  Broadband DATA Act, and in a moment I will make a unanimous consent  request with regard to that legislation. 

  This bill will ensure that the FCC has the most accurate broadband  coverage maps in the world today to deploy 5G networks. As you know, we  were in a race to win that race globally, and I think we can still do  it. 

  In December, the Senate unanimously passed this measure, S. 1822, but  because the House passed a slightly amended version last week, we need  to act again to get this bill across the finish line. 

  We have a digital divide in this country which threatens to leave  rural America behind. We have done a lot to address that divide.  However, an estimated 20 million Americans still lack access to  broadband--Americans like those in Arizona or Mississippi or other  States across our heartland. Every year, the FCC spends billions of  dollars to promote deployment of broadband across the United States. S.  1822 will result in highly detailed and accurate maps so that the FCC  can direct support to areas most in need. 

  This legislation represents extensive negotiation and work on a  bipartisan and bicameral basis, for which I congratulate this Senate.  My hat is off to our colleagues in the other body and thanks to all the  staff who have helped on both sides of the aisle. 

  Madam President, I ask the Chair lay before the Senate the message to  accompany S. 1822. 

  The Presiding Officer laid before the Senate the following message  from the House of Representatives:  

       Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 1822) entitled       ``An act to require the Federal Communications Commission to       issue rules relating to the collection of data with respect       to the availability of broadband services and for other       purposes.'', do pass with an amendment.                               Motion to Concur  BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT