Holding Power Accountable


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I commend Congresswoman Ramirez  for conducting this Special Order hour, and I thank her for yielding me  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today with my Congressional Progressive Caucus  colleagues to express my utter horror at the way in which the Trump  administration is catapulting us towards an authoritarian state.

We in Congress are one of the three branches of government, yet the  President has been acting like a king since day one.

Since assuming office, Donald Trump has dismantled Federal agencies  and unlawfully halted billions of dollars in congressionally  appropriated Federal funding. He has undermined the delicate system of  checks and balances by flagrantly ignoring court orders. He has  arrested a judge and a mayor. He has threatened to arrest a sitting  Governor. He has taken to the floor and handcuffed and detained a  United States Senator. He has accused and caused to be indicted a  United States Congresswoman for having the temerity to do her job by  being at an ICE facility to conduct oversight.

He has also violated the right to due process by dispatching armed,  masked, unidentifiable people, wearing plain clothes and tactical gear,  onto the streets of select American cities. They pull up on people,  jump out with assault weapons, force them into unmarked cars, and  disappear them. Their families learn days later that their loved one  has been shipped off to a foreign gulag without presenting evidence to  a judge that they should be removed.

Trump has done this to legal permanent residents and talked openly  about doing it to American citizens.

While unleashing terror on our streets, Trump's brazenly corrupt  decision to accept a $400 million Boeing 747 jet from Qatar for his  personal use is a direct violation of the Emoluments Clause of our  Constitution, and it has caused a firestorm of controversy.

Yet, MAGA Republicans in control of Congress turn a blind eye to it.  My Republican colleagues are afraid to hold Donald Trump accountable.  The majority is afraid to investigate the serious national security,  public integrity, and foreign policy implications of the President  accepting an emolument from a foreign government and flying around in a  Qatari jumbo jet, taking it  with him as a door prize when he leaves office in January 2029--if he  leaves office. This is blatant, in-your-face corruption to see how far  he can go in his attempt to replace democracy with dictatorship.

Congress has the authority to introduce Articles of Impeachment  against the President, but I don't expect that it is going to happen  because my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are too afraid to  do so. It is the ultimate exercise of congressional oversight, and it  requires a simple majority vote in the House of Representatives and a  two-thirds majority vote in the Senate in order to impeach and convict.

I am prepared to take any necessary action to stop Trump's reckless  assault on the Federal Government and our democracy. While I believe  many of Donald Trump's actions merit impeachment, I believe that the  critical first step needs to be taken by this body as soon as possible.

As I said before, I don't expect it to happen because MAGA  Republicans have completely abdicated their constitutional  responsibility to exercise any shred of oversight on this out-of- control executive.

In fact, this Congress has acted as a rubberstamp as Trump  consolidates power in and unto himself. Time and time again,  Republicans continue to capitulate on their core principles in complete  sycophancy of Trump's disastrous, antidemocratic agenda.

Despite being in the minority, House Democrats are working tirelessly  to push back against Trump's hostile government takeover by litigating  his illegal actions, introducing legislation to curb his powers, and  mobilizing the public against his destructive agenda.

I have joined thousands of Georgians and millions of Americans  against the Trump administration's attacks on Social Security,  Medicare, Medicaid, and other public services, including SNAP benefits  for children, infants, and seniors.

Though it is unlikely that a Republican-led House will do anything to  hold this executive accountable, we are going to continue to do  everything we can to demonstrate to the American people that we are not  going to take this lying down. We are going to be with them. We are  going to be out on the streets in peaceful protest. We are going to  make sure that we preserve and protect this democracy that our  forefathers and foremothers have fought so hard to guarantee to us.

I will not stop doing the job that my constituents sent me to  Washington to do because a megalomaniac is trying to override the  Constitution, and I hope that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle  will do the same.