Bottles and Breastfeeding Equipment Screening Enhancement Act


Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (S. 260) to amend the Bottles and Breastfeeding Equipment  Screening Act to require hygienic handling of breast milk and baby  formula by security screening personnel of the Transportation Security  Administration and personnel of private security companies providing  security screening, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 260

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Bottles and Breastfeeding       Equipment Screening Enhancement Act''.       SEC. 2. HYGIENIC HANDLING OF BREAST MILK AND BABY FORMULA                     DURING AVIATION SECURITY SCREENING.

The Bottles and Breastfeeding Equipment Screening Act       (Public Law 114-293) is amended by adding at the end the       following new sections:       ``SEC. 3. HYGIENIC HANDLING OF BREAST MILK AND BABY FORMULA                     DURING AVIATION SECURITY SCREENING.

``Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of       this section and every five years thereafter, if appropriate,       the Administrator of the Transportation Security       Administration shall issue or update, as the case may be,       guidance to minimize the risk for contamination of any breast       milk, baby formula, purified deionized water for infants, and       juice (as well as ice packs, freezer packs, frozen gel packs       and other accessories required to cool breast milk, baby       formula, and juice) that is subject to re-screening or       otherwise subject to additional screening. Such guidance       shall--

``(1) be developed in consultation with nationally       recognized maternal health organizations;

``(2) ensure adherence to hygienic standards, as       established by the Administrator, in consultation with       nationally recognized maternal health organizations;

``(3) ensure that, when any such re-screening or additional       screening requires additional testing, such testing so       adheres to such standards, to so minimize such risk; and

``(4) apply to security screening personnel of the       Administration and personnel of private security companies       providing security screening pursuant to section 44920 of       title 49, United States Code.       ``SEC. 4. INSPECTOR GENERAL AUDIT.

``Not later than one year after the date of the enactment       of this section, the Inspector General of the Department of       Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on       Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate a report containing an audit of compliance with the       requirements of sections 2 and 3. Such audit shall also       include information relating to the effect of various types       of screening technologies, including bottled liquid scanners,       on the screening of breast milk, baby formula, purified       deionized water for infants, and juice (as well as ice packs,       freezer packs, frozen gel packs and other accessories       required to cool breast milk, baby formula, and juice) that       is subject to re-screening or otherwise subject to additional       screening, and the rate at which such items are denied entry       into the sterile area (as such term is defined in section       1540.5 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations).''.

Mr. GARBARINO.  260.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 260, the Bottles and  Breastfeeding Equipment Screening Enhancement Act.

This legislation will require the administrator of the Transportation  Security Administration to update guidance related to screening of  infant feeding materials. It will make the airport experience more  bearable for traveling families. I thank my Democratic colleague, Mr.  Swalwell, for leading the House version of this legislation, H.R. 820,  through the committee earlier this year.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I have no more speakers and am prepared  to close after the gentleman from Puerto Rico closes. I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

I congratulate my colleague (Mr. Swalwell) on this bill. I am happy  to support it. I am very pro-family and pro-parent, and I urge my  colleagues to support S. 260.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.