Dhs Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program and Law Enforcement Support Act


Mr. GARBARINO. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2212) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to  establish the Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2212

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``DHS Intelligence Rotational       Assignment Program and Law Enforcement Support Act''.       SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY INTELLIGENCE                     ROTATIONAL ASSIGNMENT PROGRAM.

Section 844 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.       414) is amended by adding at the end the following new       subsection:

``(b) Office of the Director of National Intelligence       (ODNI) Intelligence Community Civilian Joint Duty Program.--      The Secretary shall require all components of the Department       that are members of the DHS Intelligence Enterprise to       participate in the ODNI Intelligence Community Civilian Joint       Duty Program in a manner consistent with the policies       established by the Director of National Intelligence for the       Program.''.

Mr. GARBARINO.  2212.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2212, the DHS  Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program and Law Enforcement Support  Act. This bill will improve the Department of Homeland Security's  Office of Intelligence and Analysis collaboration with the wider  intelligence community.

As the only intelligence agency with a duty to share information with  State and local law enforcement, it is imperative the Office of  Intelligence and Analysis analysts have effective partnerships within  the intelligence community.

In addition, I also want to take a second to express my gratitude to  the rest of my Committee on Homeland Security colleagues on both sides  of the aisle as we work to advance over a dozen bipartisan pieces of  legislation to the House floor this week. As chairman, I look forward  to sending many more legislative priorities to the House floor.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for H.R. 2212, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to  the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Mackenzie).

Mr. GARBARINO. Madam Speaker, I, again, urge my colleagues to support  H.R. 2212, and I yield back the balance of my time.