Black History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687896/black-history-month


Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to first say thank you to  our co-anchors; only freshmen in this House but certainly seasoned in  the life that they have led. I thank Congressman Figures and  Congresswoman Bynum, and to our Madam Chair of the Congressional Black  Caucus, Congresswoman Yvette Clarke.

Mr. Speaker, tonight you will hear many stories of Black history,  which is definitely American history. I rise today because Black  sacrifice and excellence has shaped our Nation. We stand on the  shoulders of many brave soldiers and Sojourners, but tonight I choose  to salute living legends.

I salute the 62 members of the Congressional Black Caucus, four Black  Members for the first time serving in our United States Senate, and 58  House Members in this Congress, the largest in our history. As we say  in the Baptist church, we have come a mighty long way. From 1971, when  13 Members sat on this House floor, 12 Black men from across this  Nation and one brave, courageous, bad sister, Shirley Chisholm. My,  have we come a long way.

We come tonight, and we speak truth to power in this most  unprecedented time in our Nation's history: a time when we are fighting  for civil rights and justice, a time when we are fighting just to ask  for an opportunity, for a broader talent base, something we call  diversity, equity, and inclusion.

Programs like Medicaid and Medicare, Consumer Financial Protection  Bureau, FAA, and funding for HBCUs, historically Black colleges and  universities, Federal jobs being taken away  from individuals with little or no notice and promise of payment that  has only fallen short or to be told that they would get it and found  out only to be lies.

Tonight, we will answer what the people are asking for: What are we  doing?

Well, I can tell you that the Congressional Black Caucus is standing  up for justice.

I can tell you that the Congressional Black Caucus is going back into  our communities, and we are holding teletownhalls.

I can tell you that we are responding to the American people because  we know what is at stake. We know that if we will not stand up for them  and fight for them that little might not happen. I can tell you that we  are communicating. I can tell you that we are legislating. I can tell  you that we are standing with the lawyers who are litigating. We are  fighting to protect and pursue opportunities that give Black Americans  the same advantages that White Americans have enjoyed since our  Nation's founding.

Our history is made stronger and more vibrant. Just when Black  Americans think that we are equal, we are still fighting for equal  rights.

Here we are, from chaos and confusion with this administration, but  we are still leading. Former chairs, now ranking members. If I did a  roll call, Mr. Speaker, I would tell you that we have people like  Maxine Waters,  Bobby Scott, Bennie Thompson, and   Gregory Meeks  leading some of the most prestigious committees in this Congress.

I would tell you that we have so many people who possess law degrees  that it would be like having a roll call of Who's Who to tell you that  even in our freshman class--if I started by saying: Turner, Fields,  Bell, Conaway, Figures, Sykes, McClellan, Lee, Crockett, Johnson,  Sewell, Meeks, Neguse, Jeffries, and Bishop, who all possess law  degrees.

We have some of the best orators in the country. I could say Ayanna  Pressley, and I can tell you historians like Jim Clyburn. I could tell  you that we are fighting because we possess those talents in fields  because we have suffered along the way.

You have heard the stories of our parents. You have heard the stories  of our grandparents. We just don't come tonight for a Special Order to  tell you our stories, but we want America to know that we are  suffering. We want America to know that we stand with them in this time  when we are in trouble.

Just last night, I was on a call with Win With Black Women and Win  With Black Men, a call that was prompted several months ago during the  election when 44,000 Black women got on a call, and 50-some thousand  Black men got on a call. Just as tonight, when a White woman joined us,  White women and White dudes got on the call because we knew that  America was in trouble.

Mr. Speaker, last night I am so proud to say, as I close, that we  stood up for another sojourner, a sojourner who had been fighting for  us as she went on air every night. We also say thank you to Joy Reid  for what she has done and to let her know that we, too, are lifting her  up.

We are also celebrating those who, too, will give us a voice, whether  it is on traditional media, legacy media, social media, or podcasts. We  are coming after those who are coming after us, Mr. Speaker. We want  America to know that we will not be silent even against this  administration. We will not sit down. We will protest. We will resist.  We will do all the things that our forefathers did. We will do all the  things that those shoulders that we stand on did.

What they did, we will do because this America belongs to us. We  fight for justice, dignity, equity, diversity, and inclusion because  we, too, are part of America. Black history is American history.