Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699825/financial-stability-oversight-council-improvement-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3682, the Financial Stability  Oversight Council Improvement Act of 2025, sponsored by Representative  Foster.

Let me start by thanking the bill sponsor and our ranking member for  our Financial Institutions Subcommittee for his leadership on these  matters.

Representative Foster has helped raise the alarm regarding the  financial stability threats posed by the AI boom. He has introduced  additional bills that would strengthen our financial stability,  including one to reverse Trump's dangerous budget and staffing cuts to  the Financial Stability Oversight Council and Office of Financial  Research.

Mr. Foster introduced another bill to close a regulatory gap to  oversee third-party vendors used by credit unions and the GSEs. I know  Republicans have some concerns with the former, but the latter bill has  bipartisan support in the Senate and is timely. Given how our community  financial institutions increasingly rely on these vendors, helping them  access technology to compete, the least we can do is ensure that there  is good oversight to address vulnerabilities like cybersecurity  threats.

Turning to this bill, H.R. 3682, let's step back and remember why we  have a Financial Stability Oversight Council in the first place.  Congress established FSOC following the 2008 global financial crisis to  close regulatory gaps and enhance oversight of large, nonbank financial  firms like AIG or Lehman Brothers that can pose a threat to our  financial stability.

Congress gave FSOC various tools, including the power to designate a  large nonbank company as a systemically important financial institution  for enhanced oversight and regulation. In Trump's first term, they  severely weakened the nonbank designation process. In a letter, former  Treasury Secretaries Geithner, Lew, and Yellen, along with former Fed  Chair Bernanke, warned: ``These changes would make it impossible to  prevent the build-up of risk in financial institutions whose failure  would threaten the stability of the system as a whole.''

Biden's FSOC addressed these concerns and improved procedures for  designations, while importantly ensuring there is due process and  opportunities to consider alternatives to designation that might better  mitigate systemic risks. They also made clear that the Council should  not prioritize designation over other options.

Mr. Foster will make sure that FSOC gives a company and its primary  regulators an opportunity to present alternatives to be promptly  considered by the Council; otherwise, they may proceed and follow the  regular procedures to designate a firm if need be.

The bill also allows FSOC to revise and waive these considerations if  doing so would promote financial stability. Given all of that, Mr.  Speaker, I will support H.R. 3682, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, at a time when threats to our financial stability are  growing, Congress should be doing more to address these concerns,  including closing oversight gaps regarding third-party vendors,  advancing deposit insurance reform and, yes, holding the President  accountable for all of the ways his corruption and chaos erodes trust  and stability.

Again, I thank Representative Foster for his leadership on promoting  financial stability. I also appreciate the way he improved this bill,  which I will support, and I yield back the balance of my time.