Paying Homage to the Black Men and Women of the Armed Forces


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699864/paying-homage-to-the-black-men-and-women-of-the-armed-forces


Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, it is a great honor for me to rise today to  co-anchor this Congressional Black Caucus Special Order hour alongside  my distinguished colleague, Congressman   James Clyburn of South  Carolina.

You see, Mr. Speaker--and to all those who are listening and watching  tonight--it is not only our 100th anniversary of Black History Month,  but it is just that, it is our history, as Mr. Clyburn has so aptly  outlined.

For the remainder of our first hour, you will hear from us. We will  speak directly to the American people on an issue of deep importance to  our caucus, to the House, to the communities we represent, and to our  Nation.

As we observe Black History Month, today's Special Order hour is  dedicated to recognizing the contributions, achievements, and  sacrifices of Black military servicemembers and veterans.

I cannot think of a better person than our leader, the woman who  leads the Congressional Black Caucus, who hails from New York's Ninth  District to speak on this. Tonight, we will speak a lot about legacies,  Black legacies. We will speak about challenges and barriers, about how  we have prevailed.

When I think about Congresswoman Yvette Clarke, I think about Black  legacy. When we talk about how Black servicemen and -women stood on the  shoulders, I think about our leader, Yvette Clarke, who stands on the  shoulders of her constituents in Brooklyn, New York. I think about  Yvette Clarke, who stands on her mother's shoulders, a pioneer and  someone who understood what we need to do to preserve our Black  history.

Mr. Speaker, I ask everyone to listen carefully as this powerful  Black woman comes to us and presents why we are here, because she leads  us as we honor Black legacy, Black founders, and we honor the legacy  that she will leave. Let us listen to the stories of Black military  servicepeople, stories too often overlooked or erased.

Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, tonight, we stand here, and while we talk  about the celebration of Black history and Black military men and  women, we remind everyone that Black history is American history.

I am sure when Carter G. Woodson was thinking about Black history 100  years ago, I know he was not intending it to be for only 1 month, but  for us to kick it off in February and continue it for the rest of the  year.

Tonight, we are reminded that Black military history is not a  footnote. It is foundational. From the Revolutionary War to today's  All-Volunteer Force, Black servicemembers have defended this Nation  with courage, discipline, and sacrifice, even when this Nation did not  fully defend them in return.

Their service helped win wars. Their leadership strengthened our  institutions. Their resilience expanded the promise of American  democracy. As we observe Black History Month, let us commit not only to  remembering this history but to protecting it, teaching it, and  honoring those who continue to serve today. The strength of our  military and our democracy depends on truth, inclusion, and the respect  of those who have carried the burden of service.

Black Americans have served in the United States military since the  Revolutionary War, with over 350,000 currently serving on Active Duty  or in the Reserves, making up approximately 20 percent of enlisted  personnel.

As of 2025, 21 percent of Army soldiers, Black or African American,  while represented in the enlisted ranks, are underrepresented in the  highest leadership levels, although 40 percent of the total Active-Duty  Force consists of people of color.

You have heard about Robert Smalls becoming the first Black captain  in the United States Navy during the Civil War. You have heard about  Colin Powell, the first Black Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,  and the list goes on and on.

We have heard a lot about men and women who were out there in the  fight during the early years, fighting for our democracy and freedom. I  was reminded when Mr. Clyburn talked about the Tuskegee Airmen that,  yes, it was during World War II that First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt used  her platform as a military advocate to challenge segregation and to  elevate excellence in the Armed Forces. She publicly championed the  Tuskegee Airmen, whose skills and discipline shattered the lies used  to justify exclusion, and proved that racism, not readiness, was the  real barrier. You see, they were Black, for anyone who might not know  that, and by flying with one of them as her pilot, Roosevelt sent an  unmistakable message that standing with Black servicemembers was an act  of patriotism and putting country over hate.

That leads me to someone who lived much of her life until she died in  my hometown, Lieutenant Colonel Charity Adams Earley, whom I finally  called Aunt Charity. She mentored me and taught me much of what I know  today. She always reminded me of barriers and challenges, but always  said to move forward and go forward and do those things that will make  a difference.

She was the first Black woman officer in the Women's Army Corps,  commanded the 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion, the only all- Black, all-female unit deployed overseas during World War II. Stationed  in Europe, her battalion was tasked with clearing a massive backlog of  undelivered mail, millions of letters and packages that carriers hoped  servicemembers who were far from home would receive, but this wasn't an  ordinary task. It was warehouses for miles and miles.

It was given to them because no one else had been able to do it, and  certainly, those White officers felt that they would not be able to do  it either. It was punishment. Mr. Speaker, they didn't know the power  of Black women.

I thank Charity Edna Earley and all those who served with her and  their families because they completed the mission not only on time but  in record time, delivering those messages from parents, children,  friends, and loved ones and restoring morale in the midst of war.

Lieutenant Colonel Charity Adams Earley was the commanding officer of  the 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion. They were honored just  recently here in Congress with the Congressional Gold Medal for her  extraordinary work during World War II service.

I am so proud that I could be there that day to witness her family,  her two children, Judith and Stanley, as we stood together while she  and others were honored.

Mr. Speaker, the statistics are long and strong about what we have  done. I thank Mr. Clyburn for being our historian, for reminding us  that, from the earliest days of this Nation, Black Americans have  stepped forward to serve even while enslaved, segregated, and denied  basic rights.

During the American Revolution, Black patriots fought in the  Continental Army. Just this summer, as our Nation marked the birthday  of the United States Army, we also lifted up Black heroes too often  left out of history, men like Mr. Clyburn mentioned: Salem Poor, Peter  Salem, James Armistead Lafayette, who served in the Continental Army  where it all began.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Clyburn for allowing me to share a small  part in this. We could go on and on, but certainly I would be remiss if  I didn't mention that, during the Civil War, Black service and  leadership continued, including the extraordinary contributions of  Harriet Tubman.

Tubman served as a nurse, an intelligence operative, and a scout. She  was part of a movement, part of an Army, providing crucial information  on Confederate movements in supply lines. In 1863, she planned and  guided the ferry raid, destroying Confederate supplies and freeing more  than 700 enslaved people, becoming the first American woman to lead a  military operation.

Mr. Speaker, her leadership saved lives, weakened the Confederacy,  and reshaped the meaning of military service. I thank Mr. Clyburn for  allowing me to share that part.

Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Clyburn for yielding.

I thank Mr. Clyburn for not only giving us information about Blacks  serving in the military, but also reminding us of our rich history and  how everyone benefits. Thus, Black history is American history.

Mr. Speaker, let us be clear that America cannot move forward by  erasing the people who propelled it forward. Currently, this  administration is looking to erase the impact of women and Black  Americans from our military. From brutal attacks on Black history to  Secretary Hegseth's attempt to remove women from combat roles, the  message is clear.

Clearly, President Trump does not value the contributions of Black  Americans or women in our Nation's military, but still, they rise.  Still, we rise because we understand that an injustice anywhere is a  threat to justice anywhere. Today, that legacy lives on through the  more than 350,000 Black Americans currently serving in uniform and the  more than 2 million Black Americans who are veterans. They served with  that same courage, that same resilience, and that same excellence as  those who came before them.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Clyburn for reminding us about being woke  because the opposite is being asleep, and I am sure we don't want  anyone to not be woke when they are fighting for our freedom, when they  are fighting for our justice.

As we move forward, Mr. Speaker, in this Congress, I ask that we  remember the things that we shared and that we move forward with an  open mind and a mind of the words that we so frequently say: ``Freedom  and justice for all.''

I thank Mr. Clyburn for yielding.