Concerns Over Nations Funding University Campus Institutes in the United States Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, let me apologize in advance. My accent  has not changed, but my speech has. I had a little oral surgery, so I  am going to try to be as clear as I can be. 

  I want to talk for a few minutes today about the Communist Party of  China and Confucius Institutes. 

  As you know, Confucius Institutes are the Communist Party of China's  so-called learning centers that are located on 72 university campuses  across the continental United States and, of course, Alaska and Hawaii.  Each one of these symbols is one of these Confucius Institutes located  at one of our universities. 

  Here is how a Confucius Institute works. The Communist Party of China  gives our universities--these 72 universities--the money to open these  Confucius Institutes, and supposedly the purpose of these Confucius  Institutes is to, A, teach the Chinese language, and B,  to teach culture about the country of China to American students. 

  At this juncture, it is important to distinguish between the people  of China and the Chinese Communist Party. I had the pleasure of  visiting China a number of times, and I know the Presiding Officer has.  The Chinese people are wonderful people. They are smart. They are hard- working. They have a wonderful sense of humor. They are just  extraordinary people. Their government, the Communist Party of China-- not so much. Not nearly so much. So when I talk today about China, I am  talking about their government, the Communist Party of China. 

  These Confucius Institutes, which are, once again, funded by the  Communist Party of China, you will not be surprised to learn come with  a lot of strings attached to that Chinese Communist Party money. For  example, most of the teachers who teach at these Confucius Institutes  on American university campuses are trained in China. In fact, the  Communist Party of China has to approve all the teachers even though  they are teaching in our universities. The Communist Party of China  also has to approve all of the events and the speakers at these  Confucius Institutes. 

  In addition, in order to get the money from the Communist Party of  China, our universities have to agree that the Confucius Institutes  will be governed by both Chinese law and American law. I have never  seen anything like that. It is unprecedented. 

  In order to get the money from the Communist Party of China, our  universities also have to agree through these Confucius Institutes that  certain topics will be off limits. For example, at these institutes,  you can't talk about Taiwan; you can't talk about civil liberties in  Hong Kong; you can't talk about Tiananmen Square and the murders there  by the Communist Party of China; you can't talk about Tibet; you can't  talk about the Dalai Lama; and you can't talk about the discrimination  and indeed the imprisonment of the Uighur Muslims in northwest China.  Once again, these are institutes that are on American campuses, but in  order to get the money from the Communist Party of China, our  universities have to agree that these topics are off limits. 

  The Communist Party of China, in short, requires that these  institutes can only teach versions of Chinese history, culture, and  current events that are approved by the Communist Party of China. That  is about the furthest thing you can imagine from academic freedom. 

  How am I doing? Is my speech OK? I promise you, I haven't been  drinking. 

  The first Confucius Institute was formed on an American campus in  2004, and since that time, they have evolved--and not in a good way. 

  I want to give you a short quotation. You are familiar with the  Politburo of the Communist Party of China. Back in 2011, a member of  the Politburo, which is the senior leadership in China in its Communist  Party, Comrade Li Changchun, described Confucius Institutes in a speech  he gave in Beijing in 2011. Comrade Li said:  

       The Confucius Institutes are an appealing brand for       extending China's culture abroad. [They have] made an       important contribution toward improving [our] soft power.       ``The `Confucius brand' has a natural attractiveness''--  

  A natural attractiveness.  

       . . . using the excuse of teaching Chinese language,       everything looks reasonable and logical.''  

  But of course it is not. 

  Many of our professors across America have condemned the behavior of  the Confucius Institutes. The American Association of University  Professors did a comprehensive study of Confucius Institutes in 2014.  Here is their report. This is what our professors concluded. I will  quote from their report.  

       Confucius Institutes function as an arm of the Chinese       state and are allowed to ignore academic freedom. Their       academic activities are under the supervision of Hanban, a       Chinese state agency which is chaired by a member of the       Politburo and the vice-premier of the People's Republic of       China. Most agreements establishing Confucius Institutes       feature nondisclosure clauses and unacceptable concessions       to the political aims and practices of the government of       China. Specifically, North American universities permit       Confucius Institutes to advance a state agenda in the       recruitment and control of academic staff, in the choice       of curriculum, and in the restriction of debate.  

  I don't want to beat this to death, but I have a number of studies.  There is another one right here from the GAO. 

  I won't bore you with the details, but here is a 2019 report calling  for either the overhaul or the closure of Confucius Institutes in  America, which was issued by the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on  Investigations. 

  Many U.S. colleges have disbanded Confucius Institutes. I want to be  fair. Not that many years ago, there were over 100 of these little  symbols. Now there are 72. About 30 universities have said: No, we  believe in academic freedom--universities like the University of  Chicago, Miami-Dade College, and Pennsylvania State University. 

  Senator Doug Jones, our colleague from Alabama, the distinguished  junior Senator from Alabama, and I have a bill. It deals with Confucius  Institutes, but it wouldn't abolish them. It would not. The name of the  bill--it is called the Concerns Over Nations Funding University Campus  Institutes in the United States Act, the CONFUCIUS Act, by Senator Doug  Jones and myself. 

  Our bill would reform Confucius Institutes. Our bill would allow them  to exist, but it would require all American universities that choose to  sign a contract and receive money from and with the Communist Party of  China to enter into contracts that require the Confucius Institutes to  do the following: The Confucius Institute, by contract, would have to  provide that it would protect academic freedom at the university; that  it would prohibit the application of any foreign law on any campus of  the institution; and that rather than granting full managerial control  to the Chinese Party of China, it would grant full managerial authority  of the Confucius Institute to the campus on which the Confucius  Institute is situated. That would include full control over what is  being taught, the activities carried out, the research grants that are  made, and who was employed at the Confucius Institute. 

  If the Confucius Institutes are going to be part of our universities,  they should be part of our universities. Freedom of speech, full  academic freedom--anything is open for discussion, and we don't have to  have it first approved by the Communist Party of China. 

  I think Senator Jones' and my bill would restore balance. It would  restore truth. It would restore transparency. I know it would restore  academic freedom to these Confucius Institutes that are operating in  the United States of America. 

   939--that is the CONFUCIUS Act--and the  Senate proceed to its immediate consideration. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, with gratitude to my coauthor, Senator  Doug Jones, who has done an extraordinary job on this legislation, I  ask unanimous consent that the bill be considered read a third time and  passed and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid  upon the table. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KENNEDY. Thank you. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT