Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702112/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-the-islamic-republic-of-iran-that-have-not-been


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I am going to give you a name: Tony  Hanagan.

As we all know--not necessarily everybody outside this Chamber--Tony  is a senior floor assistant. I will come back to what that means in a  second.

Tony is leaving us for the private sector. Under the ethics rules, he  can't tell us where he is going. I think it is a startup, but I am not  sure. I think part of his job responsibilities--not exclusive because I  don't know because he can't talk about it--will be ``congressional  relations.'' I have strongly encouraged him to ask the startup to  define very carefully what they mean by ``congressional relations'' in  light of what has been going on around here.

Though we kid him a lot--I will come back to that too--Tony is very  smart. He is a graduate of William & Mary. I am sure there are some  dummies at William & Mary, but I have never met one coming out of  there. It is a great school. He has also spent time at the Wharton  School, studying their model budget project.

He has worked his way up as a member--as basically a Senate advisor.  And let me explain a little bit of what Tony and his colleagues do.

You see these two doors back here, this one and this one. This one  leads to what we call the Democratic cloakroom. This door leads to what  we call the Republican cloakroom. Now, that is where Senators go to  cuss and to tell each other lies, but it is not the only purpose of  those. Supposedly, we can go back there and relax and when someone  isn't around--and sometimes when they are around--and make fun of  people.

But there are members of our staff who have desks back there, and not  every member of our staff has a desk back there. Some are close by.

What do they do? They make this place run. For one thing, they  understand the rules or claim to. No living human being, at least not  in the U.S. Senate with a beating heart, understands the Senate rules.  I am not saying no one understands them. I am just saying nobody in the  Senate does. They say they do. They lie like fish swim because to  understand--you don't only have to understand the rules; you have got  to understand all the precedents.

The first 6 months I got here, I said: You know, I am going to learn  the rules. I read about Lyndon Johnson who supposedly sat here and  learned all  the rules and outsmarted all his colleagues. I don't believe that. But  anyway, he probably knew more than I did. God rest his soul.

But after 6 months, here is my conclusion: I don't know if I can  learn the rules and all the precedents, and by the time I do, they will  have changed. And someday, I am going to die, and I don't want on my  tombstone ``Kennedy understood the Senate rules.'' So I gave up. I  quit. No mas. And so now, when I want to understand the rules, I talk  to a member of our staff, like Tony, or some of my colleagues, and so  do most of my Senate colleagues on the Democratic side and on the  Republican side. Now, our staff could be lying to us because we don't  know any better. They could make this stuff up, but I don't think they  do. I have never seen Tony make it up. A couple of times, I thought I  had caught him, but he turned out to be right, and that is important.

But it is more than just an understanding of the rules. It is more  than Tony's job and my colleagues' job who are our advisers--it is more  than just learning the rules because the rules look like they were  designed by a heroin addict with a socket wrench.

We don't know how to get things done, so we go to our advisers and  say: Tell me how to do this.

And they are really good at that. Tony is really good at that. I know  sometimes the questions are so esoteric and so bizarre, I can tell from  their eyes that they want to look at you and say: You are not the  stupidest person I have ever met, but you had better hope the stupidest  person I have ever met doesn't die.

But they never do that. They always say: OK. You know, you can try it  that way, but here is the downside of it, and with all due respect,  there is a better way of doing it, and you might consider this.

Frankly, I mean, our Parliamentarian--I see her here. She does  understand the rules, and she is pretty good at helping you too. She  has got lines she can't cross because she doesn't work for Senate  Republicans or Democrats.

But this is what Tony does and the other staff members, and they make  this place run. They are not responsible for the fact that the Senate  only works when everybody isn't crazy at the same time, and they are  not responsible for the fact that sometimes it takes us weeks, months,  even years, to get nothing done. Doing nothing--it can be frustrating.  Doing nothing is very hard because you never know when you are  finished. But they make this place run, and we are going to miss Tony.

Now, we make fun of Tony. It is all in good fun. There is a big  mirror back in the cloakroom. I think it is an antique mirror. That is  what they tell us. Sometimes we will--I have done it, but others, I  think, have too. Sometimes we will write little notes to the majority  leader--we used to do it with Mitch, and now we do it sometimes with  Thune--and sign it ``Tony,'' and, of course, they all have a heart  attack.

Tony keeps a couple of pairs of shoes under his desk, and probably  about once a week, some of us take at least one of the shoes and hide  it, and he is ready to go home at whatever--11 o'clock, 12 midnight-- and he can't find his shoe. Max, who works with him back there--his job  is to eventually, after he spends an inordinate amount of time and he  gets really close to the point that he has no more firetrucks to give  and is going to start telling everybody what he thinks--Max will tell  him where the shoe is.

I have got some other stories about Tony, but I just can't tell them  because there are probably some children listening.

But anyway, you will read about Tony someday in the Wall Street  Journal, and it won't be because he went ``Eric Swalwell''; it will be  because of his financial success. And we are going to miss him, but I  can't blame him. He is already picking out the color of his new  Mercedes.

The Presiding Officer knows the Mercedes-Benz. If you have any advice  for him, like the best one that deflects heat, you might want to talk  to him. He may want to just buy two, OK?

But anyway, we are going to miss Tony, and I wanted to say that, and  I am sorry I can't tell you all of the ``Tony'' stories. They are  legendary.

But, Tony, you have just been awesome, you and all of your  colleagues, and we never talk about them enough. I just want to say  thank you.

And my final words: Peace out.

(Applause.)