Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I would like to talk for a few minutes  today about my favorite subject, which is Louisiana. 

  I could talk the rest of the day and through the entire weekend about  the good things about Louisiana, but today I want to talk about one of  our problems. It is not just a problem for Louisiana; it is also a  problem for the United States of America; it is also a problem for the  American people; it is also a problem for energy independence for our  country. Louisiana is drowning. It is drowning because we are washing  away. Our land is washing into the gulf. 

  I live about 250, 300 miles north of the Gulf of Mexico--sort of in  the toe of the boot, if you think of Louisiana as a boot. If things  continue as they are going, I may not be alive then, but my home-- whoever lives in it after I am gone--will be gulf front property.  Remember, my home is 250 to 300 miles from the coast. 

  Why is that happening? Why is our land washing away into the gulf?  There are a number of reasons. I will mention two, in particular. The  sea levels in the Gulf of Mexico are rising. We can have a rigorous  debate about the reason for that, and I know many smart people think it  is for this reason and others disagree and think it is for that reason,  but we can't deny the fact that sea levels are rising whatever the  cause. In fact, as the gulf meets the southern part of my State, it is  rising about 12 to 13 inches every 100 years. 

  We have another reason, though, as to why my State is washing away-- our land in southern Louisiana is sinking. 

  Why is that? 

  The Mississippi Delta, of which Louisiana is a part, is an ecological  and hydrodynamic masterpiece. What God did in creating our State is  just breathtaking. It used to be the Mississippi River, which runs  right through my State, would overflow every year. It would deposit its  sediment in South Louisiana. The water would recede and go back into  the river channel, but the sediment would remain. After thousands and  thousands of years, the land was built up. Then we leveed the  Mississippi River. I am not saying we did the wrong thing by leveeing  the Mississippi River, for we have increased the quality of life for a  lot of Americans and enhanced our economy. When we leveed the river, we  prevented it from overflowing so that it would no  longer deposit sediment, but the sediment that was already there before  we leveed the river was slowly sinking. So we have sea levels in the  gulf rising 12 to 13 inches every 100 years, and we have the land  sinking. You don't have to be a senior at Cal Tech to figure out we  have a problem. That is why our land is washing away. 

  Now, why is this important? 

  It is obviously important for the people who live on the land that is  washing away, but it is also important for America's energy  independence because underneath the land that is slowly being washed  into the gulf--crisscrossing that land and extending over into Texas  and into Alabama--are 26,000 miles of pipelines that carry oil and  natural gas that heat American homes and generate American energy. When  that land washes away, those pipelines are going to be exposed. 

  Do you know what the saltwater is going to do to those pipelines? 

  It is going to corrode them. When that land washes away, those  pipelines now exposed are going to be exposed to ocean currents, and  they are going to burst. It will not be all at once, but they are going  to burst, and this country's energy independence is going to be  undermined. 

  Do you know how long and how much money it will take to move those  pipelines? 

  I don't know. I am not sure if there are enough ditches to quantify  it. 

  Let me shift gears and talk about the solution as I think I have  defined the problem. 

  We are helping ourselves, and I will give you an example. The  Morganza to the Gulf project doesn't mean a lot to some of you, but  trust me--it is a big deal to the people of Louisiana and to the  American people who are familiar with it. We have been taxing ourselves  for 20 years to pay for that project, which is part coastal restoration  and part hurricane protection. We also received help from the American  people. 

  Thank you. Thank you, American people, for coming to our aid. 

  In 2006, the U.S. Congress passed what we call GOMESA. It stands for  the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act. That is what I mean when I talk  about GOMESA, and GOMESA is a pretty straightforward bill. It says  that, for all new oil and gas drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, the  Federal Government and the State government are going to share the oil  royalties. 

  The government, as you know, owns the seabeds. We lease them to oil  companies, and they drill and produce oil and natural gas. In fact, off  of Louisiana's coast, we have wells that produce about 16, 17 percent  of the Nation's oil and about 3 percent of the natural gas. Those oil  companies pay royalties to the Federal Government, and the royalties  flow through the Federal Government to the State government. 

  Under GOMESA, the American people, through their representatives,  said: OK. On all new wells that are drilled after 2006, Louisiana gets  37.5 percent of the money that the Federal Government gets--but not  just Louisiana. We didn't want to be greedy. We asked to have Texas  included. We asked to have Mississippi included. We also asked to have  Alabama included so it would get 37.5 percent too. Fair is fair. The  Federal Government gets the rest. 

  Louisianans have put their money where their mouths are. We have  dedicated every single penny of that GOMESA money to coastal  restoration in order to try to build up our land faster than we have  been losing our land to the gulf. It has been a losing battle, but we  have been holding our own. To give you an idea of how dramatic it has  been, since 1930--I think 1932--Louisiana has lost land the size of  Delaware. I believe, if you run the numbers in terms of square miles,  we have lost land the size of two Rhode Islands. I think we have lost a  football field a day. Remember, this doesn't just hurt Louisiana. This  hurts America, and it hurts our energy independence. 

  Louisiana has put its money where its mouth is. We said: Thank you,  American people, for passing GOMESA. We appreciate the 37.5 percent of  the oil royalties we are going to get out of the Federal Government's  share, and we are putting every single penny into coastal restoration. 

  There is still a basic unfairness because 20 other States get 50  percent. Now, these States aren't coastal States. I am happy for them.  Don't misunderstand me. These are inland States that have Federal  lands. When oil companies drill on those Federal lands and hit oil or  hit natural gas, those States don't get 37.5 percent of what the  Federal Government gets; they get 50 percent. That is just not fair.  Everybody ought to be treated the same. Louisiana and Alabama and  Mississippi and Texas are not asking for any extra. We call that  lagniappe in Louisiana. We aren't asking for any extra. We are just  asking to be treated like everybody else. In Louisiana, we are  dedicating every single penny--I don't know if I mentioned this or  not--to solving the coastal restoration problem, which is not just  Louisiana's problem but is a problem for the United States. 

  We have a bill. It is called the COASTAL Act. The full name is the  Conservation of America's Shoreline Terrain and Aquatic Life Act. We  call it the COASTAL Act. All the COASTAL Act would do would be to treat  all the States the same. Everybody would get 50 percent--a 50-50 split.  Louisiana wouldn't get more or less than any other State. Alabama  wouldn't get more or less than any other State. Mississippi wouldn't  get more or less than any other State. Texas would be under the same  rule. All of the States would get 50 percent. 

  It would also make one other change. When GOMESA was passed, it  capped the amount of money that Louisiana and Mississippi and Alabama  and Texas could get each year from that 37.5 percent at $500 million a  year. Out of basic fairness, we are asking that the cap be removed if  we can pass this bill, the COASTAL Act. The quarterback of the bill is  the senior Senator from Louisiana, Dr. Bill Cassidy. I am helping him  all I can as are the Senators from Texas and Mississippi and Alabama  and other States. All we are asking is for equality. 

  I don't want to end on a negative note by just talking about our  problems. If you haven't visited Louisiana, please come. I have lived  in five States and a foreign country. I have just never lived in a  place like Louisiana. It is my home, and I know I am biased. God  blessed our State, and in having blessed us, I think God blessed us a  second time. 

  I mean, look at our location. We are at the top of the gulf coast; we  are in the middle of the Gulf South; we straddle one of the mightiest  rivers in the entire world. We have more oil and gas than most nations  do, which we share with the American people. My people are experts in  things like agriculture, aquaculture, shipbuilding, petrochemical  manufacturing, oil and gas exploration, food, timber, healthcare. I  could keep going. Our people are hard-working, God-fearing, and fun- loving. 

  I tell my friends Senator Cruz and Senator Cornyn all the time how  much I love Texas--and I do. Gosh, Texas is a great State. Every day,  it seems like it wins an award. Yet I tell Senator Cruz and Senator  Cornyn--in jest, of course--look, Texas is 5\1/2\ times bigger than  Louisiana, but give us credit as we are 10\1/2\ times more interesting  than you are. 

  We are just a fun, extraordinary, diverse State, but we need some  help. We are not asking for extra; we are just asking for equity. I  hope this Senate, in its wisdom, will pass the COASTAL Act. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT