Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701765/iran


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, look, everybody has got an opinion about  Iran. I get it. That is good. Americans are entitled to have an  opinion. Every Member of the Senate has an opinion. Every Member of the  House has an opinion. Obviously, the President has an opinion. The Pope  has an opinion. Everybody has an opinion, and that is a good thing.

I can tell you why I think we did the right thing by going into Iran.  First of all, the people of Iran are wonderful people. I am not talking  about the people; I am talking about their government, which is run by  their Supreme Leader. Now, the old Supreme Leader is now as dead as  Woodrow Wilson, but they have a new Supreme Leader. It is the son of  the old Supreme Leader, and he is just as crazy as his daddy was.

The people in charge in Iran--they are a theocracy. That means,  unlike America, where we separate church and state, in there, they  marry their church to their state. And the Supreme Leader, who rules  Iran, thinks that he is speaking for God. He really thinks God is  telling him to do all this stuff. The Supreme Leader believes that if  you disagree with his version of his religion, you should die.

They hate America, and they hate Israel. They do. They want to kill  us and hurt us the entire time we are dying.

They are trying to get a nuclear weapon. This isn't like China having  a nuclear weapon or Russia or India or Pakistan.

Let me ask you a question. Would you give Charles Manson a nuclear  weapon? That is what we are talking about here. Charles Manson is also  as dead as Woodrow Wilson. But would you give a Charles Manson-type  person a nuclear weapon? No. That is why we can't let the Supreme  Leader and his minions in Iran have them.

Now, how do we stop them? Well, this is what Iran was up to. First of  all, President Trump and Israel went in in June and bombed the living  daylights out of their nuclear facilities, destroyed them  substantially.

To develop a nuclear weapon, you have to have fissile material,  enriched uranium. We hit their production facilities so hard that a lot  of that uranium is buried underneath the ground, but it is still there,  OK. We bombed the hell out of it, and we set them way back in terms of  their nuclear ability, but it still exists.

We received intelligence saying that Iran has started to take some  baby steps to restart their nuclear program that we bombed to hell and  back last June. But that is not really why we went in. We also received  intelligence that said Iran has a new game plan. The Supreme Leader-- nutty as a fruitcake--the Supreme Leader has decided--here is his game  plan--he is going to double and triple missile production.

Ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, also drones--they were producing  those things at anywhere from 200 to 600 a month, maybe more, and the  Supreme Leader was going to stockpile all these new missiles and these  new drones, and then he was going to turn to America and Israel and the  rest of the world and say: I am restarting the nuclear program. You can  bomb me, you can bomb us if you want to, but we have got all these  missiles, and some of these missiles can reach Berlin and Paris and  London and Turkiye, and we are going to use them. The first thing we  are going to do is destroy the Middle East. We don't care. We are  Charles Manson. We are going to destroy the Middle East, and then we  are going to start on anybody else that we are mad at.

We couldn't let that happen. We couldn't. So Israel and the President  attacked. Now, whether you think it was a good idea or a bad idea, that  is up to you. I can tell you the effect of it, though, because this-- the media won't report it, but this is undeniable. We hit Iran so hard,  they are coughing up bones. The public sector but also  the private sector today in Iran--it doesn't give me any joy to say  this. We had no choice. I don't know how they are standing. They are  held together with duct tape and spit.

Israel and America ran 21,000 bombing runs. We bombed seaports,  airports, the electrical grid, railroads, the petrochemical industry,  the farm industry, their steel industry.

Six out of ten Iranians of adult age don't have a job and don't have  any prospect of getting a job. Many parts of the country don't even  have electricity.

We knocked out two-thirds of the Supreme Leader's missile launchers.  Does he still have some left? Yeah. They are buried underground. He has  to dig them out. You probably saw pictures on TV of the bulldozers. We  think we have knocked out half of their cruise missiles and ballistic  missiles. We are not sure how many drones.

They don't have an air force anymore in Iran. They don't have a navy  either. They still have some small boats that the Revolutionary Guard,  which is part of their military, runs, but they don't have a navy. We  sunk all their ships. We attacked virtually every single building we  know of which is run by the Revolutionary Guard, which is part of their  military.

I don't think the American people, because the press hasn't reported  it, have a full appreciation for the damage that we did and had to do.  I have seen estimates as high as a trillion dollars for them to  rebuild.

I know the press glibly reports: Oh, you know, China and Russia will  help them build back. What is the point of the war?

Well, the point of the war: They are not going to have a nuclear  weapon anytime soon. Charles Manson may be able to find a knife, but he  is not going to have a nuclear weapon.

And in order to rebuild Iran, it is going to take 20 to 25 years. And  I don't know if we will be able to recover all of the enriched uranium.  Some of my Democratic colleagues and some of our colleagues in the  media are saying: It is a failure because you didn't get their enriched  uranium.

I never figured we would get it.

And a lot of my colleagues are saying: Well, it is a failure because  you didn't effect regime change; that nutjobs are still in charge.

That is true. We can't dictate regime change. That is up to the  Iranian people. The only way we can dictate regime change is sending in  troops, and I don't want to do that.

But the fact of the matter is that if you think the theocracy run by  the Government of Iran--the Charlie Mansons--who is dangerous to the  world--and I do--then the world is a much safer place today, and that  is just a fact. That is a fact.

It is going to be a long time before Charlie Manson can rebuild, and  it is going be a hell of a long time before the new Supreme Leader is  going to get a nuclear weapon.

Third and final point. I don't know whether I will do this, but I  will just do it. I don't hate anybody. I have said that before standing  here, I don't. I do not. When I pray, I pray. God, don't let me hate  because it is hard up here. It is not worth it.

But if I had a short list of people that I would consider hating,  Congressman Eric Swalwell would be on it. He has undermined the  confidence of the American people in this body.

Here is my impression of Congressman Eric Swalwell eating an ice  cream cone.

You know why I do that? Life is hard, but it is harder when you are  stupid. And if you are going to be stupid, by God, you better be tough.  This is no country for creepy old men, and Congressman Swalwell, he is  about to find that out. Karma may be slow, but it is almost always on  time.

I yield to my friend Senator Kelly.