Letter to Michael Carvajal, Director of the Bureau of Prisons - Johnson, Kennedy, Cassidy Urge Federal Bureau of Prisons to take Immediate Action at Oakdale Prison


Dear Mr. Carvajal,

We write to you today concerning the outbreak of COVID-19 at the Federal Correctional Institution (FCI) in Oakdale, Louisiana. 

Since the outbreak of COVID-19 began, the United States has faced unprecedented odds in combating this pandemic. While this virus has unfortunately caught many people off guard, we fear that is especially true for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Since this pandemic began, numerous staff and inmates at FCI Oakdale have contracted COVID-19, and sadly, more continue to test positive each day. As you work hard to contain the spread of this virus via various measures, we ask you to take immediate action at FCI Oakdale.

Accordingly, we request information on the following:

What procedures are in place to provide immediate protection to the staff and their families from the outbreak of COVID-19 at FCI Oakdale?Given the spread of COVID-19 at FCI Oakdale is not contained, what is being done to combat the spread and mitigate its effects?What is Bureau of Prisons currently doing to protect the surrounding community from the outbreak of COVID-19 at FCI Oakdale?How are FCI Oakdale and the Federal Bureau of Prisons working with hospitals that care for its sick inmates, including those infected with coronavirus, to ensure those hospitals are not overwhelmed with coronavirus-infected inmates with accompanying guards; and that other patients, staffers and visitors aren't infected by those inmates and guards?Will the Federal Bureau of Prisons halt all new transfers to FCI Oakdale for the duration of the pandemic, given the uncertainty as to whether those transferred inmates are free of coronavirus? If not, why not?Upon the early release of inmates, what notification is given to victims and local law enforcement?Please detail how the Bureau of Prisons is monitoring inmates who have been released early without electronic monitors.As you are aware, COVID-19 is moving at an alarming speed in our country so time is of the essence. We respectfully urge you to act in an expeditious manner to stop the spread and continue mitigating the risk to staff and the community at FCI Oakdale. We stand ready to provide whatever assistance we can to ensure our men and women on the front lines are protected.

Sincerely,