Recognizing the Significance of Community College Month in April


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702144/recognizing-the-significance-of-community-college-month-in-april


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I want to spend a few minutes telling you  about why I held the vote-arama tonight on reconciliation. Our leader  is going to make it to happen a lot quicker than I am. He has got the  patience of Job.

My Democratic friends--and they are my friends; I don't hate  anybody--agreed to a budget for the Department of Homeland Security as  part of our normal budgetary process.

They changed their mind, as is their right. But it caused the  Department of  Homeland Security to be shut down, and it hurt a lot of people  needlessly. It didn't hurt us. It didn't hurt us. We are still getting  paid. We are still going home. But it hurt a lot of people.

And our leader decided that he was going to negotiate with my friend,  Minority Leader Schumer, and Senator Schumer was going to meet us  halfway and figure out a way to get the Agency open.

He and my Democrat colleagues did agree to open everything but ICE  and, I believe, border security. They will never agree to fund ICE-- never, not in your natural lifetime, not in mine. They won't do it.

My friend Senator Schumer did the right thing last March, when we  were shut down. He agreed to release some of his Members to let us open  the government back up. The loon wing of his party--that is what I call  them; if you disagree with me, you can tell me why--beat him bloody.  They hit him so hard--now when they hit him, they are just working on  scar tissue--for doing the right thing.

Now, I don't consider all of my Democratic friends to believe in  defunding ICE. The people in control do. They know it. I know it. We  know it. They will never vote to fund ICE. This is the same group of  people that wanted to defund the police, and we know how that vampire  movie turned out.

Now, they will deny it, and that is their right. But it is the truth,  and everybody in this body knows that.

But, nonetheless, our leader said we can work it out.

We didn't work it out. They never agreed to fund ICE, and they never  will.

Now, about--I don't know; time runs together up here when you are  having fun--a month ago, 6 weeks ago, 2 months ago, we started talking  about reconciliation and doing it without Democratic votes, even though  the Democrats would be welcome to join us.

I want to give full credit. Ted Cruz, I believe, was the first one to  do it. I was second. And Ted went first only because he beat me to it  but also because Ted pointed out, in President Trump's first term, that  we shouldn't leave efforts to do reconciliation on the table. He was  right then. He is right now.

The leader said OK, finally, after doing everything he could, except  standing on one leg and barking like a dog. Senator Thune did  everything but stand on one leg and bark like a dog to get Chuck to  agree. It was his right. Chuck wouldn't agree. And for all I know, John  did stand on one leg and bark like a dog. It didn't work. So we finally  said: OK, let's do the reconciliation.

Now, once we started talking about reconciliation, which Senator Cruz  and I and others pushed, I said I wanted to try to use--well, I said,  first, I refuse to believe that Democrats in the Senate and the House  cannot adult hard enough to come up with a couple of issues that we can  agree to do, in addition to funding ICE and border security, in  reconciliation. I didn't believe that then, and I don't believe that  now.

Some people said I am naive. Maybe so, but I still believe it. And I  still think we ought to try. Why? Because there is not going to be a  third reconciliation bill. I am not seeing--I am not saying anybody is  lying. They are not. People probably intend to do a third  reconciliation bill, but you are not looking at Bambi's baby brother  here. There won't be a third reconciliation bill.

You know it, and I know it. This is it. This is the last train  leaving the station. Maybe we will do some other bills. I don't know. I  am labor, not management. That is above my pay grade. But this will be  the last one where we can add stuff to it.

And I would like to see us come up with one or two issues that will  help the American people with the cost of living and other things that  I know Republicans can agree to. And my Democratic friends, like  Senator Durbin, whom we are going to miss--and I mean that--are welcome  to come aboard if they want to.

One of the things I also said I wanted to try to do in reconciliation  was the SAVE Act. Here is what I want to do, and I am willing for all  of us to put our heads together to figure out how to do it.

The American people no longer have confidence in our elections. You  can debate whether that is justified or not, but it is just a natural  fact. I think that we can restore confidence in our Federal elections  if we do three things: if we come up with a way to make sure that  everybody who is registered to vote is an American citizen. I think we  can restore confidence in our elections if, No. 2, we pass a rule for  Federal elections that says you have to prove you are who you say you  are in order to vote. And, No. 3, I would like to see us--I consider  this part of the SAVE America Act, but it is not traditionally a part.  I think we ought to go back to having an election day and not an  election month. I know some votes come in late. I get that. We are  smart enough to figure out a way to accommodate that. But this election  month stuff is just undermining the people's confidence, both  Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. That is what I mean when I  say the SAVE Act.

And I have said that I am going to try to put the SAVE Act on the  reconciliation bill, and I want to keep my word. Where I come from,  your word is your bond.

Now, Senator Thune, our leader, came to me earlier--and so did Whip  Barrasso--and said: Some Senators want to do the vote-arama tonight,  and they have got to get home for various reasons.

And I have been there.

And if you insist on going tomorrow--because, frankly, I am. I am  worried about the health of some of our Members--not that they are in  bad health, but it is hard to stay up all night. It was hard to stay up  all night when I did it in college. I was studying, of course.

But, anyway, I said: No, I would rather go tomorrow. I am going to  object.

And John explained to me, and others did as well: The majority wants  to go.

So I said: OK. I will pull my hold.

I didn't realize it then. This is my fault. I thought everybody knew  I wanted to offer amendments. I didn't realize then that there was a  way, procedurally, for me to be blocked from offering my amendments.  That is my fault. I just didn't know the rules.

Do you want me to talk again about our rules, Tony? I won't get off  on that tangent.

Did I mention they were put together by a heroin addict with a socket  wrench? If I didn't, that is how I feel about rules. But, anyway, that  was my fault.

So I called Senator Thune back and I called Senator Barrasso back and  said: Guys, my bad. I was ignorant. I am redoing my hold because you  all have the right to block me from offering amendments, but I have the  right to exercise my procedural rights and start this thing tomorrow  and leave more time to debate. And I apologize to every one of my  colleagues. I have been there. I am sorry. But I will tell them I am  sorry.

So I put together my amendments. I have got five of them, and I  showed them to Senator Graham and Senator Barrasso and Senator Thune. I  just left their office.

So if what we talked about leaked, I am not going to leak it. You  will know it was one of those three. They promised me they wouldn't  leak it.

Here is what I want to offer. And they can stop me, but I can stop us  from voting tonight, which is going to hurt some of my colleagues, and  I don't like to do that.

I think that we should instruct the appropriate committee--I will get  into it, if you want to; it is the Banking Committee--to come up with a  bill to prevent medical debt from being reported to the credit rating  agencies and ruin the credit of all these people who are too poor to be  sick, including middle-class Americans, because their credit gets  screwed up, and it makes it harder to get the money to pay off the  debt.

Now, the hospitals and others, they are foaming at the mouth right  now and having a grand mal seizure. But I am sorry. That is the way to  effect the cost of living in America that every mom and dad is worried  about at night. I wanted to do that. I still want to do that.

I wanted to instruct the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to  provide that, before the United States of America agrees with the  United Kingdom to give away our military base in Diego  Garcia, two-thirds of the Members of the U.S. Senate have to vote to do  that.

What Prime Minister Starmer is doing right now is deep-dish stupid.  He says he is going to stop, but he may be back.

I wanted to offer an amendment to instruct the Finance Committee to  put together a bill that would eliminate Federal income taxes and State  income taxes, if our colleagues would go on with it, for our poll  workers. They don't make but $50 or something. Why do we make them pay  taxes?

To allow the American people to buy insurance across State lines--now  the insurance commissioners are having grand mal seizures too, but we  ought to talk about it.

The bill would also increase the minimum distribution age of  retirement--the required minimum distributions from retirement  accounts--to 76. Right now, it is 75, and you have got to take it. And  they tax the living bejesus out of you. Some people need it; others  don't.

I was going to ask the Finance Committee to come up with a bill to  allow every American who has suffered a casualty loss to be able to  deduct it below the line on their income taxes. That will help with  affordability.

I wanted to ask them to put together a bill so that when you sell  your home--I think you get--$500,000 of the sale is subject to capital  gains. I am sorry. I am kind of tired. I may be wrong on that, but,  anyway, you get a specialty tax break. Hell, we set that limit in 1997.

I would like them to talk about increasing it. If the Finance  Committee thinks it is a bad idea to increase it, I would like to ask  them to at least index that figure, that special treatment, to  inflation.

I have some other things, but we have got a good Finance Committee,  and they can come up with a bill that will help our people deal with  the cost of living because if you think that the American people--moms  and dads--when they lie down to sleep at night and can't, they are  worried about the cost of living, you will never own your own home.  Everybody here knows that.

I have another amendment to instruct the Senate Rules Committee to  put together a bill that tracks my rule that I can't get brought to the  floor. So I am going to turn it into a bill to withhold pay from  Senators during a shutdown. They can get their money back after the  shutdown is over. I know that hurts some Senators more than others  because some of them have houses that are bigger than a Costco. I get  that. I am not one of them. But we have a lot of people in the TSA and  other people in the DHS who have various levels of income and wealth.  So it just seems to me there ought to be some shared sacrifice.

I have another amendment to--oh, I have another amendment that  would--I am sorry to take so long.

I think my Democratic friends--gosh, I hope I am wrong, but I think  my Democratic friends are going to shut down the government right  before the midterms. I hope I am wrong. If I am, please make me wrong.  I will come to this floor and apologize to every one of them by name if  I need to, but I am scared they are going to shut down the government  and create chaos. So my other amendment would be to instruct the Senate  Committee on Homeland Security, which already has been instructed--it  is germane--to take Senator Lankford's Prevent Government Shutdowns  Act, which is S. 2721, and Senator Ron Johnson's Shutdown Fairness Act,  which is S. 3012--you won't find two smarter people in the Congress  than James Lankford and Ron Johnson--and marry those bills so we will  be ready in case anybody tries to do a shutdown on us.

And I am sorry to pick on my Democratic friends. Hell, we have got  some Republicans who could try to shut it down too. That has been known  to happen. But, anyway, it will stop it. Whatever knobhead wants to  shut down the government before the elections, this will stop it, and  that is one of these things I wanted to do with my amendments.

You have got to prove you are an American citizen. This would instruct  the Rules Committee. Prove you are an American citizen. Prove you are  who you say you are to vote, and let's go back to having an election  day and not an election month. I have got a lot of confidence in the  Rules Committee. They are really smart Republicans, and they are really  smart Democrats. They can do it, and I want to instruct them to do  that.

Now, they can stop me, but I can stop us from voting tonight. I don't  want to do that; it is going to hurt some of my colleagues. I was going  to stop us from voting tonight to try to prove my point because what  you allow is what will continue around here. I am pulling my objection  except for my right to offer the SAVE Act--my version of the SAVE  America Act. If you don't want to vote for it, don't. All I ask of you  is to think about it, to trust our Rules Committee, and to follow your  heart but take your brain with you because the American people-- Democrats and Republicans and Independents--are questioning our  elections.

This isn't about any one person--everybody is entitled to their  opinion--but I am telling you whoever loses in the next round of  elections--in the next round of elections, if we go back to an election  month, they are going to go: We got it stolen. It has got to stop. That  only happens in a country whose Powerball jackpot is 287 chickens and a  goat. That is not America, and we can stop it with this.

Anyway, that is where I am. So I appreciate your patience. I am going  to release my hold. I have been told I will be able to offer the SAVE  Act. Do whatever the hell you want on it. Vote for it. Vote against it.  Just follow your heart. Take your brain with you. Give the Rules  Committee a chance. And that is where I am. My work here is done.

Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, in my prior remarks, in one respect, they  were not exactly a model of clarity, so I want to be clear. I don't  want to do anything to hurt the reconciliation bill. I like my  amendments that I talked about. I don't know whether they will pass. If  they don't pass, I will tell you how I will sleep tonight--with a fan  on, because I think they are good amendments. But I am going to pull  them down, except for the SAVE Act, because I don't want to do anything  to keep ICE and Border Patrol from being funded. And I am pulling them  down.

I think Lindsey could stop me anyway. He says he doesn't know how.  But remember when I said Thune is going straight to Heaven? Lindsey is  going to have to be persuasive. But I know he can stop me. But rather  than make him do that and, if it gets on, jeopardizing this resolution,  I am going to pull them all down but the SAVE Act.

I am coming with the SAVE Act. Do what you want. Follow your heart.  Take your brain with you. If you don't vote for it, that is cool. I am  still going to sleep with the fan on and sleep well. I would appreciate  if you would consider voting for it.

Have a little confidence in our Rules Committee. I haven't met a  dummy yet who is on the Rules Committee.

And I am done. What am I supposed to do now?

Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I ask with respect that there be order  in the Senate and conversations be taken off the floor.

Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I call up my amendment No. 5414 and ask  that it be reported by number.

Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, this amendment would instruct our Rules  Committee to come up with an elections bill. It is my version of the  SAVE America Act, but you can call it what you want.

It would ask the Rules Committee to do two things: require that in  Federal elections you have to be an American citizen to vote and  provide for the provisions to enforce that.

No. 2, it would require that in Federal elections you have to prove  you are who you say you are in order to vote, and it would provide  provisions to enforce that.

No. 3, under this, it further instructs the Rules Committee that we  are going to go back to having an election day and not an election  month, and it instructs the Rules Committee to provide the provisions  to enforce that.

Now, I did not just pull this bill yesterday out of my rectum, though  I will concede sometimes I do my best thinking there.

I have been talking about this bill for a month, so it should come as  no surprise. Now, some say it can't be done under the Budget Act and  under the Byrd rule and reconciliation, and you know what? They may be  right.

But you know what else? They can't predict the future. They are not  clairvoyant. They have to wait on the future like the rest of us.

I hope you won't vote against this bill just because President Trump  has talked about it, this amendment, rather. If you think this is just  a Republican issue, then you are not revolving in the same direction as  planet Earth.

There are plenty of Democrats and plenty of Independents that are  worried about the integrity of our elections, and this would allow the  Rules Committee to try to resolve some of their concerns.

I trust the Rules Committee; there is not a dummy on there. There are  plenty of Republicans and plenty of Democrats. There are a lot of smart  lawyers in the U.S. Senate, but they are not the only smart lawyers in  America. And, in fact, believe it or not, there are some lawyers not in  the Senate who are smarter than we are, and I trust the Rules Committee  to go find them and try to craft a bill to fit within reconciliation,  working with our esteemed Parliamentarian.

Last two points: If this amendment passes, and I hope it will, the  Rules Committee is going to have to saddle up and ride. I am asking  them to do it within weeks, days, if possible. That is probably too  ambitious. If they have to work weekends, I will stay here with them.  Fine, do what you think is right. Don't vote against this just because  President Trump has talked about it. Follow your heart. Take your brain  with you.

I respect everybody in this body. Everybody. If you vote against this  bill, I  am not going to say a word, and I am sure as hell not going to go on  social media and call you an ignorant slut. That is not the way I roll,  unless I am pushed too far.

I yield back.

Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, we will never know until we try.

Vote on Motion