Sen. Kennedy introduces pro-life legislation to protect mothers and unborn children


Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) introduced the Pregnant Women Health and Safety Act of 2020 to protect the health of women and children. 

 "It's hard to imagine someone more in need of access to quality medical care than an expectant mother and her unborn child. The abortion industry cuts corners at the expense of vulnerable people, and the Pregnant Women Health and Safety Act would ensure that women have easy access to vital protective care.

 "I'm thankful to partner with my friend Andy Biggs in this effort to save and improve lives and encourage my colleagues in both chambers of Congress to support this legislation," said Kennedy.

 To ensure women have access to immediate medical care, the Pregnant Women Health and Safety Act would require abortion providers to have admitting privileges at a hospital located within 15 miles of the medical office where the abortion occurs. The legislation would also require abortion providers to inform patients of where they can receive follow-up care for any complications arising from abortion procedures.

 Rep. Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives.

 "Abortion providers refuse to accept the reality that an abortion is a serious medical procedure that should be treated with the same care and caution as any other surgery or medical treatment. Women deserve to have doctors and medical professionals who can provide quality care and quickly address any complications that may arise. Requiring doctors and abortion providers to have hospital admitting privileges and to maintain safe and clean clinics should be common sense measures that face little opposition," said Biggs.

 "I am grateful to Senator Kennedy for his partnership in introducing this important legislation."

 March for Life and the Family Research Council support the Pregnant Women Health and Safety Act.

 "The March for Life applauds Representative Biggs and Senator Kennedy for standing up for both women and children. Abortion facilities harm women and are always dangerous and medically substandard. Abortionists are more concerned with their profits than with women's health and safety--we thank the elected officials who are willing to hold these abortionists responsible," said Tom McClusky, President of March for Life Action.

 "Excluding abortion facilities from following standard health procedures is no way to promote women's health care. We're grateful to Senator Kennedy for introducing legislation to ensure that our laws protect the health and safety of both the mother and her child," said Travis Weber, Vice President of Policy and Government Affairs at Family Research Council.

 In addition to authoring the Pregnant Women Health and Safety Act, Kennedy introduced the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act of 2019 (PRENDA) earlier this Congress. At present, only nine states have outlawed abortion based on an unborn person's sex. PRENDA would protect unborn children in the 41 remaining states from being aborted because of their gender or sex.

 Support for PRENDA includes the Invisible Girl Project, All Girls Allowed, National Right to Life, Concerned Women for America, March for Life Action, Susan B. Anthony List, Eagle Forum, Americans United for Life, Family Research Council, Alliance for Life, Students for Life and Live Action