Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689486/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I want to spend a few minutes first  talking about Russia.

To get respect, you have to act respectfully. To be taken seriously,  you have to act seriously. We know that. It is a matter of common  sense.

President Putin in Russia is not acting with respect toward the  United States of America or President Trump. President Putin is not  acting seriously.

I don't know a single fairminded person with an IQ above his age who  doesn't want peace in Ukraine. We all want to see peace in Ukraine.  President Zelenskyy wants to see peace in Ukraine. President Trump  wants to see peace in Ukraine. I thought President Putin did. I am  beginning to wonder.

President Trump, who is leading these negotiations, first asked for a  cease-fire. He said: For 30 days--maybe 45, 60 days--I am asking both  Russia and Ukraine to lay down their arms.

President Putin said: No, I won't agree to a blanket cease-fire, but  I will stop bombing infrastructure in Ukraine. He lied like he  breathed. He continued to destroy civilian infrastructure in Ukraine.

Then President Trump said: OK. Let's try for a cease-fire in the  Black Sea.

That would benefit both Ukraine and Russia, both of which use the  Black Sea for maritime commerce. And, indeed, the world depends on a  lot of the grain that they both export.

So President Trump said: Let's try for a cease-fire in the Black Sea  and maritime security in the Black Sea.

President Zelenskyy said: ``Sure, I am with you,'' just like he said  previously, ``I agree to a ceasefire, Mr. President.''

President Putin said: I will agree to a cease-fire in the Black Sea,  but I want conditions. I want conditions.

And do you know what his conditions are?--to have the United States  of America remove the sanctions on the Russian economy.

Then, to make matters worse, President Putin said: Oh, by the way, I  have one other condition. I want to put the people of Ukraine and the  Government of Ukraine under the administration of the United Nations.

In other words, he wants the people of Ukraine to give up their  democratic form of government and be run by the United Nations.

Then, finally, President Putin said to President Trump: Oh, yes.  There is one other thing, too, before I will agree to a cease-fire in  the Black Sea or to a cease-fire generally.

``I don't want to just negotiate with you, President Trump,''  President Putin said.

He said: I want China to be part of the negotiations and India and  Brazil and South Africa--and get this; this will curdle your lunch-- North Korea.

Mama Gump said that stupid is as stupid does. President Putin is not  interested in peace. President Putin thinks President Trump took the  bullet train to Chump Town.

I mean, I can tell you how I look at this and, I think, how most  Americans look at this situation. I think to myself: You know, my mama  didn't raise a fool, and if she did, it was one of my brothers. I see  what Putin is doing. He is not serious here.

I would gently--no. I take that back. I would firmly suggest to  President Putin: If you want peace, stop treating President Trump and  the American people like a bunch of chumps. Stop it. If you want  respect, act respectfully. If you want to be taken seriously, act  seriously--because his conduct toward President Trump's hand of peace  has been despicable. It would gag a maggot.

(Mr. HUSTED assumed the Chair.)                                   Tariffs

Now, Mr. President, on a separate subject, I want to talk about  Canada.

By the way, my colleague here today, Nick Ayers, is with me. Nick is  one of my colleagues in my Senate office, and I thank him for being  here today.

I want to talk for a moment about Canada. I want to make it clear: I  love  Canada. I have visited Canada several times, many times. It is  breathtakingly beautiful, and the people of Canada are just terrific.  They are hard-working. They are very pleasant. They are fun-loving once  you get to know them.

The United States of America and Canada have been friends and allies  for decades. We are neighbors. We share a 5,525-mile border. I am proud  of that. We share history. We share values. We maintain longstanding  mutual security commitments. We are both members of NATO. Canada and  America are members of the binational North American Aerospace Defense  Command. You probably know that as NORAD.

It is more than just security commitments, though. It is more than  just business. We are friends, and I am proud of that. I remember, on  9/11--who will ever be able to forget 9/11--U.S. airspace was shut  down. The people of Canada stepped right up to the plate. They  immediately implemented Operation Yellow Ribbon. They opened their  airports. The Canadians opened their homes. The Canadians opened their  hearts to 33,000 Americans who were stranded.

There is a little town in Newfoundland called Gander. I remember  this, too, that Gander has 10,000 people, but they welcomed thousands  of American passengers. They fed them. They sheltered them. They  comforted our American citizens. They gave them a little bit of peace  at a scary time for America and the world. There was no hesitation by  the people of Canada. It was only humanity. I will never forget that.

I remember, after Hurricane Katrina, which hit my State, it destroyed  Southeast Louisiana--New Orleans, yes, but many other parts of my State  as well--and Mississippi. Canada was the very first country and the  people of Canada were the very first people to send disaster relief.  Their program was called Operation UNISON. Their military ships sailed  south to help us in Louisiana. They sent 1,000 people and a lot of  supplies. And do you know what? The good people of Canada did the same  thing when we had the horrible fires in California.

Here is my point: I don't want to be at war with Canada. I don't want  to have a trade war with Canada. I want us to continue to be friends. I  made this suggestion to the new Prime Minister of Canada the other day,  Prime Minister Carney. I am going to make it again, and I hope, this  time, he will take it more seriously. Remember, if you want to be taken  seriously, you have to act seriously. If you want respect, you have to  act respectfully.

Prime Minister Carney, you say that President Trump is not a fair  trader. I understand your point of view. I don't agree with you, but I  understand your point of view. You have got to stand up for your  people. Prime Minister Carney, if you believe in free trade, then here  is what you do. Make this offer today: Offer to go to zero tariffs in  Canada on American goods--no tariffs, none, zero, zilch, nada--and  challenge America to remove all of our tariffs on Canada so the people  of Canada can sell their goods to Americans without a tariff, and the  people of America can sell their goods to our friends in Canada without  a tariff--zero tariffs. Let Canadian businesses and American businesses  compete. Competition makes all of us better. That is one of the shared  values that we have with our friends in Canada. Let American businesses  and Canadian businesses go at it in a friendly, competitive way and may  the best price and the best product win. That is fair trade. That is  free trade.

If Prime Minister Carney wants fair trade and free trade, he will  make that offer. I don't speak for President Trump, but I will  certainly encourage President Trump to accept that offer, and I think  he will.

There is a way to stop this trade war. It is just to remove the  tariffs on both sides. Remember what Mama Gump said:

Stupid is as stupid does.

Let's don't be stupid. Let's don't have a trade war. Let's continue  to be friends. Let's get rid of these tariffs.