The Gulf of Mexico


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I want to talk for a few minutes today  about the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act, the Land and Water  Conservation Fund, the Great American Outdoors Act, and fairness. 

  Let me start with the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act--GOMESA, as  you know. 

  Louisianians started drilling off our coast in the Gulf of Mexico in  the 1930s. They were Louisiana people, Louisiana companies. There were  some other States represented, as well, but they were primarily  Louisiana companies. 

  A lot of people laughed at us, said it can't be done: We know you can  drill for oil and natural gas and supply the country's energy needs by  onshore production, but offshore, man, you are dreaming. 

  We did it. Then we did it again and we did it again and we did it  again. 

  All of a sudden, the Federal Government said: Huh, there is money to  be had. And the Federal Government came in and said: Louisiana, you  can't do that anymore. We own all the land under the oceans and the  Gulf of Mexico. 

  Well, predictably, Louisiana disagreed. We went to court. After 30  years of litigation, Louisiana lost. The courts ended up ruling that  Louisiana owns the land in the gulf from its coastline out to 3 miles,  and the Federal Government owns the rest. And the Federal Government  owns the rest. That is a little bit of oversimplification but not much.  

  I always thought that was unfair. For example, Texas, our sister  State--I love Texas--owns from its coastline 10 miles out. We only own  3 miles out. 

  More oil and gas wells were drilled in the Gulf of Mexico. It became  one of the major--if not the major--sources of oil and natural gas for  energy needs of America up to the point that we were producing and  still are producing about $5 billion that goes right into the Treasury  of the United States of America. 

  In 2006, Congress passed GOMESA. Thank you, Congress, for doing this.  GOMESA said that the Federal Government is going to start sharing some  of those oil and gas royalties. We are not going to share all of them.  We are just going to share the oil and gas royalties from lands under  the ocean in the Gulf of Mexico for all future leases after 2006--not  past leases, only future leases. Here is the new deal, according to  Congress. On all these new leases drilled after 2006, the U.S. Treasury  will take 50 percent of oil and gas royalties. The gulf-producing  States will take 37.5 percent. By the gulf-producing States, I mean  Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi, and Alabama. And 12.5 percent of the oil  and gas royalties from these new leases--not old leases, these new  leases--will go to the Land and Water Conservation Fund. I will come  back to the Land and Water Conservation Fund in a moment. 

  Keep in mind, I said that under GOMESA, Louisiana, Texas, Alabama,  and Mississippi share in 37.5 percent of all the oil and gas royalties  from the new leases, not the old leases. But the amount that we are  entitled to receive is capped. 

  To give you an idea of the money we are talking about, in 2019, the  four Gulf producing States received about $350 million in offshore oil  and gas royalties. Louisiana received $155 million of that $350  million. There is a formula that apportions the money between and among  the four gulf-producing States. 

  GOMESA caps, in a fairly complicated formula, the amount the gulf- producing States can receive under GOMESA at $375 million. Our four  States will hit that cap in 2024. It doesn't matter how much drilling  increases in the Gulf of Mexico, the four gulf-producing States can  only receive $375 million, split among themselves, until, I think,  2055. 

  Other States not located on coastlines also have Federal lands on  which oil and natural gas and coal and other minerals are produced. I  am happy for them. They, as a result of congressional legislation--by  ``they'' I mean those other States, 24 of them--get 50  percent of the royalties of all the oil and gas and coal and other  minerals produced from Federal lands in their States. The Feds get 50  percent; the States get 50 percent. 

  I am happy for them. I couldn't be more pleased for my sister States.  I wish we got 50 percent--``we'' meaning the gulf-producing States. It  seems unfair to me that we don't. We only get 37.5 percent on certain  leases. Our sister States onshore get 50 percent of all leases. Their  money isn't capped; ours is. 

  Let me talk about the Land and Water Conservation Fund. As you know,  this is a fund that was set up in 1964. It had to be authorized every  now and then. We made it permanent 2 years ago--``we'' meaning, of  course, Congress. The purpose of the Land and Water Conservation Fund  is to take money appropriated by Congress and put it into that fund and  use it to buy land and water to make that land and water public so that  all Americans can enjoy it. I am supportive of that. I think most of us  are. 

  The only money dedicated to the Land and Water Conservation Fund is  that 12.5 percent I talked about dedicated to the fund through GOMESA.  The other moneys that have been put into the fund through the years,  other than the GOMESA moneys, have had to be appropriated by Congress  on a year-to-year basis. Once again, I am supportive of the concept,  and I am happy as a clam at high tide that my sister States out west  get 50 percent. I just think it is unfair that we only get 37.5  percent. 

  As you know, we are going to consider a bill next week called the  Great American Outdoors Act. Here is what it would do. No. 1, it will  set up a dedicated automatic funding source for the Land and Water  Conservation Fund. That dedicated source is going to come from oil and  gas royalties produced in the Gulf of Mexico. 

  Remember, I told you that under GOMESA, the Federal Government  automatically gets 50 percent of the royalties from the new leases.  Henceforth, at least half of the 50 percent that is going into the  Federal Treasury will now go into the Land and Water Conservation Fund.  That is No. 1--permanent source of funding for the fund. 

  Some have argued that we are--I mean, we are not having to borrow  this money, and that is a good thing. But this money didn't fall from  Heaven. It is coming out of the moneys the U.S. Treasury would receive  otherwise from oil and gas production offshore. That means if the Land  and Water Conservation Fund takes this money from the share that goes  to the Federal Government and uses it for the fund, somebody else is  going to get screwed because the money is going to be taken from  somebody else and given to the Land and Water Conservation Fund. 

  The Great American Outdoors Act also does something else. It sets up  another sort of separate fund that a good bit of the oil and gas money  is going to flow into for deferred maintenance on public lands that we  already own. Of course, we all support that. I do. A lot of our parks  are falling apart. I mean, they have roads that have holes big enough  for a Mack truck to fall through. They have a backlog of deferred  maintenance of $12 billion. And we are going to dedicate some money to  try to chip away at that deferred maintenance. That is a good thing  too. 

  Here is what we end up with. We end up with a lot of our States  getting 50 percent of all of the oil and gas and coal produced in their  State with no cap. Now these States that have national parks--again, I  am happy for them; I love national parks--they are going to get an  extra big slug of money from the Gulf of Mexico. In the meantime, the  gulf-producing States--primarily Louisiana, but also Texas, Alabama,  Mississippi--we are going to be stuck at 37.5 percent. It is capped. It  is capped. It is capped at a weeny $375 million a year from now until  2055. With inflation, by 2055, it will be worth about 7 bucks and 23  cents. 

  That doesn't seem fair to me. It especially doesn't seem fair to me  when you consider that basically the Gulf of Mexico is producing the  money--actually, oil companies are. But how do the oil companies do  that? They do it with Louisiana. Most of the leases and wells are off  Louisiana's coast. I am not putting down Mississippi, Alabama, or Texas  because there is drilling off their coast as well. But facts are facts.  Most of the drilling is off Louisiana's coast. A lot of the workers are  from Louisiana.  

  Do you know what makes that drilling possible? Louisiana tax dollars.  We pay for the roads that support Port Fourchon, which is vital and  located in my State for that oil and gas production. We pay for the  schools that educate the kids of the workers. We take all the risk. 

  We know what happened with the BP oilspill. If there is another  oilspill in the Gulf, it is Louisiana and Texas and Alabama and  Mississippi that are going to get slammed. It is not going to be the  inland States. That is where I said I am going to talk about fairness. 

  Senator Cassidy--and I don't see speak for Senator Cassidy.  Understand, he is my senior Senator. But he and I are working on a way  to improve the Great American Outdoors Act. It is going to make it so  much better. 

  I am introducing a bill tomorrow, and I am going to offer an  amendment to the Great American Outdoors Act--once again, I don't speak  for Senator Cassidy, but I think he will support it--that is going to  remove the cap on the amount of oil and gas royalties that the four  gulf-producing States can receive under GOMESA. 

  Let me say it again. Right now, nobody else is capped. We are capped.  The most that Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi, and Texas can receive,  split among ourselves, is $375 million. We are going to hit that cap in  2024, and it will remain until 2055. We all know with inflation it is  not going to be worth $375 million in 2055. It is capped. 

  All I am saying and all Senator Cassidy is saying, and I think--I  don't speak for them either, but my colleagues from the gulf-producing  States--all we are saying is: Let's be a little fair here. If you don't  have a cap onshore, let's don't have a cap offshore. My little old  amendment would just remove that cap and make the Great American  Outdoors Act even greater. 

  Senator Cassidy and I and other Senators from the gulf-producing  States are also working on some other ideas that I don't feel  comfortable talking about today, but we have some other ways we think  we can improve the Great American Outdoors Act. 

  I wanted to come here today and say, once again, I am not criticizing  any of my sister States. I am happy as I can be for all the States that  don't have caps and that do get to share in 50 percent of the  royalties. I am just asking for a little fairness and equity, just a  little bit for the gulf-producing States by allowing us to remove that  cap. 

  With that, I either yield the floor or I suggest the absence of a  quorum, whichever the Parliamentarian tells me to do. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT