Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I am honored to follow my friend, the  senior Senator from Illinois. I enjoyed his comments very much. 

  As the Presiding Officer knows, this Congress has passed, I think,  four bills to provide money to the American people, to the American  healthcare delivery system, and to businesswomen and businessmen  throughout our country to fight the coronavirus and the damage it has  done to our public health and also to our economy. 

  We have spent and will spend--because all of the money is not yet  spent--about $3 trillion. That is $3,000,000,000,000. That is $3,000  billion. We don't even take in that much money in a year. We take in,  in revenue, about 90 percent of that. So we borrow the money. 

  I voted for the bills. We had to do it. The Federal Reserve, through  its lending facilities, including but not limited to its 13(3) lending  facilities, will probably spend at least another $3 trillion. 

  I asked one of the senior officials at the Federal Reserve yesterday,  and he told me that in the past 2 months the balance sheet of the  Federal Reserve has doubled. 

  Now, many of the transactions conducted by the Federal Reserve, of  course, are loans, but we know that all of the loans aren't going to be  paid back. And since the Federal Reserve can't lose money, we are going  to have to appropriate probably even more money than we appropriated in  the CARES Act to backstop those losses. 

  So we are up to $6 trillion, let's say. Speaker Pelosi, as the  Presiding Officer knows, has introduced a new bill that would spend  another $3 trillion that, of course, we will have to borrow. Some  Americans think we just print the money. We don't. We issue Treasury  securities, which is just basically a bond. We borrow the money from  people--from many Americans, many foreigners, including but not limited  to China, and we have to pay that money back. 

  So now we are up to $9 trillion--that is 9,000,000,000,000--and our  total debt is--that is going to put us at about $28 trillion. I am not  going to repeat the zeroes again. I think I have made my point. 

  Now, Speaker Pelosi's bill is not going to pass the U.S. Senate in  its present form. You don't have to be a senior at the University of  Georgia to know that. It has provisions in it--for one thing, it costs  $3 trillion, as I just pointed out. For another thing, it will expand  the Affordable Care Act, which, of course, is controversial in the  Senate. 

  It will change our election laws dramatically. Some have suggested  that Speaker Pelosi's bill will basically federalize elections, take  them away from our States, which is certainly not contemplated and I  think is forbidden by the U.S. Constitution. 

  Speaker Pelosi's bill will dramatically change our immigration laws.  It will provide amnesty for people who are in our country illegally  during the coronavirus pandemic. It will provide a lot of money-- hundreds of millions of dollars--to people who are in our country  illegally. Some will like that. Some will not like that. But the point  I am trying to make is it will be controversial. 

  Speaker Pelosi's bill will release many of our Federal prisoners  during the coronavirus unless the Bureau of Prisons can affirmatively  show that those prisoners are not going to go out and commit a violent  crime. In other words, the Bureau of Prisons has to prove that John  Doe, the prisoner who is being released, is not going to go out and  commit a violent crime. That is an impossible standard, of course, to  meet. 

  Speaker Pelosi's bill is very pro-cannabis. I don't know how the  Presiding Officer feels about cannabis--that is your business--but it  is controversial in the U.S. Senate. I think it mentions cannabis  something like 28 times. 

  Finally, Speaker Pelosi's bill addresses, in many respects, the  subject of race. For example, it directs every Federal agency to keep  deposits in minority-owned banks. I am not suggesting that that is good  or bad. I am just suggesting to you it will be very controversial. And,  for that reason, the bill is not going to pass this body in its present  form. 

  Now, that sets up three scenarios. One scenario is that Speaker  Pelosi, of course, she knows her bill isn't going to pass, and she  doesn't intend for it to pass. It is what we call a messaging bill: She  is sending a message on behalf of her party with an eye toward the  November elections. It is done around here all the time. So one  scenario is it is just a messaging bill, and it is political pageantry. 

  There is a second possibility; that this is her opening bid and that  the leadership in the Senate on the Democratic side and the leadership  in the Senate on the Republican side and the Republican leadership in  the House and Speaker Pelosi and probably Treasury Secretary Mnuchin  will then sit down and negotiate, without much input, quite frankly,  from Members of the Senate. I don't know how it works in the House.  

  They will sit down and come up with something, and then they will  come back to us. I am in labor, not management. They will come back to  us and say: Here it is; take it or leave it--without much input from us  individually. That has happened before. It has happened a lot before. 

  Then we have a choice. We can either say, geez, you know, we weren't  a part of this process, or we can moan and groan and grumble and then  just follow our leaders into the chute. We can moo and follow our  leaders into the chute like cattle and vote for it.  

  The third scenario, with respect to the Speaker's bill, would be that  the second scenario happens but the Members of the Senate and the  Members of the House bow up and say: Uh-uh. Not this time. We are not  going to moo and follow our leadership into the chute like cattle. We  don't agree with what they did. 

  That is a particular danger in the House because, again, you don't  have to be in Mensa to understand that Speaker Pelosi has drafted a  bill to address the interests and concerns of the leftwing of her party  in the House. 

  So I can see a third scenario, where the powers that be negotiate  what they see as a compromise and that compromise is taken back to the  House and the liberal Members of the House--I don't use ``liberal'' and  ``conservative'' in a pejorative sense--the liberal Members of the  House say: The short answer is no. The long answer is hell no; we are  not going to vote for that. 

  That could also happen in the Senate on my side of the aisle. Our  leaders could negotiate a package and come back and say: OK. Here is  the deal. The liability provision is going to cost you $1 trillion in  extra spending. 

  I can see some Republicans--one of them is standing right over here.  I don't speak for him, but he is my good friend from Florida who is  going to have some heartburn if that happens. 

  And then nothing happens. We have appropriated, as I mentioned--I  don't want to belabor the point--$3 trillion, another $3 trillion if  you add the Federal Reserve. Some of that money went to States and  local governments--$150 billion. My State got about $3 billion. 

  Many of the States need that money. I am not saying that we aren't  going to have to share, sacrifice here. I am not saying that we  shouldn't ask our State and local governments to submit to us revenue  estimates. I am not saying that we shouldn't ask them to pare down  their budgets. We ought to pare down ours as well. 

  But, to me, it is undeniable that States and local governments have  sustained damage from the coronavirus. For God's sake, their economy  has been shut down. If you are a State that relies on sales tax, nobody  has been buying anything--or at least not like they did before. If you  are a State that relies on income tax, income tax hasn't been coming in  because nobody has been open. 

  Now, some of my colleagues believe that we should not give the States  any latitude to use any of that $150 billion to address revenue  shortfalls. And I understand that point of view. I do. 

  You take Florida, for example. In a few moments, Senator Scott is  going to speak. He was Governor of Florida for 8 years, did an  incredible job, balanced their budget, grew employment dramatically.  And I can understand--I am not speaking for my good friend, the  Senator, but I can understand how someone in the Senate would say:  Well, no. Every Governor needs to go reform his entire State  government. 

  But that is not going to happen--at least not within the next year.  In the meantime, I believe that State and local governments have  sustained damage, and I think that is just a natural fact. They have. 

  I have a bill, S. 3608. It is called the Coronavirus Relief Fund  Flexibility for State and Local Government Act. Senator Sullivan has  another bill that does somewhat the same thing as mine. I think Senator  Rounds has a bill. 

  All my bill would do is this. That $150 billion we have already  spent, which now has been given to the States and local governments,  says it can only be used for coronavirus expenses. 

  My bill will change that. My bill would not spend a single, solitary  new dollar. 

  Let me say that again. My bill will not add to our spending. It just  says that the Governors have additional flexibility to spend the $150  billion that we have already given them. They can't spend it to bail  out their pension systems. My bill prohibits that. They can spend it to  address a revenue shortfall, which many of them have. 

  We will never agree in this body about which State is well-managed  and which State is not well-managed. One person's trash is another  person's treasure. I have personal feelings. Senator Scott does. I see  my good friend Senator Warner is here. He was a very distinguished  Governor of Virginia. He will probably have a different point of view. 

  There is one thing we can agree on. There is real danger that Speaker  Pelosi's bill is not going to pass. It is not going to pass today, and  it may not pass tomorrow, and it may not pass in June. 

  The second thing we can agree on is that our States and our cities  have sustained debt, and we can take off the handcuffs and allow the  money we have already given them to try to help them repair that damage  as we recover from this horrible pandemic. 

  For that reason, I am going to ask for unanimous consent not that we  pass the bill. I am going to ask in a second for unanimous consent that  we just vote on my bill. We don't vote enough around here. I came up  here to deliberate and decide. I didn't come up here to issue press  releases and participate in delay and stultification. I want to do an  honest day's work for an honest day's pay. Instead, we want an honest  week's pay for an honest day's work. 

  All I want to do is have a vote on my bill. If you don't like it, you  can chew it up, spit it out, step on it, and vote no in front of God  and country. But if you like it, you can vote for it, and let's be  Senators again. 

   3608--that is my bill--and the Senate  proceed to its immediate consideration. I further ask that there be 2  hours of debate--see, we will have plenty of debate--equally divided  between the proponents and the opponents of the bill; and that upon the  use or yielding back of that time, the Kennedy substitute amendment No.  1581 be considered and agreed to, the bill, as amended, be considered  read a third time, and the Senate vote on passage of the bill, as  amended, with a 60-affirmative-vote threshold for passage with no  intervening action or debate; finally, if passed, that the motion to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table. 

  Let my people vote. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT