In Remembrance of Gerald P. McDermott


Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker. I rise today to honor the life and legacy  of my dear friend and mentor, Gerald P. McDermott--a highly regarded  trial attorney, advocate for justice, pillar of Denver's legal  community, and revered family man.

Jerry's career was defined by an unwavering commitment to defending  the rights of all Coloradoans, no matter their circumstance or  situation.

Jerry was a proud son of Pueblo, Colorado. He stayed in Colorado for  his education, attending Colorado State University and the University  of Denver School of Law, where he was a member of the law review.

After graduating from law school, Jerry established a legal career  fighting for people who needed a strong advocate. He was associated  with many preeminent trial firms in Colorado and founded his own firm,  establishing the highest standards of trial excellence and ethics.

Jerry's lifelong love of politics was cemented when he was a reading  clerk for the Colorado State Legislature during the 1965-66 session.  Later, he was the point person for the rights of the injured in the  1985 tort reform legislative session and gained respect from  legislators on both sides of the aisle. He consistently supported  politicians who he believed met his standards and worked actively to  help them get elected and succeed in office.

I saw this for myself. When I was a young member of the General  Assembly, struggling to balance my law practice, service as a  legislator, and raising two young daughters, Jerry took me in. He gave  me an office in his firm and was always there to help me with a case or  give advice about a tricky legal issue.

Jerry received many awards and accolades, but he would say that his  biggest success was his family. He and Rosemarie were married for over  60 years, and they raised two sons, Sean and Brian. Over the years,  Jerry spoke to me with such pride about the success of his boys. Truly,  his family was the center of his life.

To scores of Colorado lawyers, Jerry was a guiding light and voice of  reason. He gave us advice, set an example through his work, and showed  us what it meant to fight for people who needed a strong advocate.

His dedication to fairness and justice had a lasting impact on  generations of trial lawyers. I am proud to have known Jerry and to  call him my friend.

Colorado's legal community mourns the loss of a giant.