Dire Consequences of Funding Freeze and Mass Firings


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687984/dire-consequences-of-funding-freeze-and-mass-firings


Mr. VASQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today to address the dire  consequences of the Federal funding freezes and mass firings that are  devastating communities across the country, including in my home State  of New Mexico.

Over the past few weeks, I have spoken with New Mexicans who have  been impacted by these reckless decisions. Their stories are  heartbreaking. Their families are suffering. Rural communities are  reeling, and they deserve to be heard.

The funding freeze is crippling essential programs in our State,  programs that provide wildfire prevention, conserve rangelands,  grasslands, and forests, provide services to veterans, and fund public  safety services. Rural communities and food producers are left  vulnerable. Our national parks and forests are in disarray, and our  local economies are suffering.

At the same time, mass firings are stripping thousands of dedicated  Federal workers of their livelihoods. They are Americans--parents,  veterans, and public servants--who have spent years serving their  communities.

More than 2,400 employees have been dismissed from the Department of  Veterans Affairs, undermining care for those who have served our  country.

The U.S. Forest Service is losing the very employees that provide  Americans access to our national treasures and public lands. These cuts  also threaten wildfire prevention as our State enters another critical  fire season.

The administration has fired 2,300 Department of the Interior  employees, including 800 from the Bureau of Land Management and another  1,000 from the National Park Service, crippling decades of conservation  efforts and degrading public land management.

These numbers alone are shocking, but they don't fully capture the  impact. I want to share what my constituents have told me about these  firings because behind every statistic is a real American.

Jason, a former National Park Service employee from Grants, New  Mexico, told me: I received outstanding reviews on my last evaluation  just a week before I was laid off. The local economy here in Grants  will be devastated. I moved here to serve my community. I joined the  local library board, and I am serving my people, but now I am afraid I  will have to leave. There are no options left.

Devrie, who works with the Friends of Bosque del Apache National  Wildlife Refuge, shared: We already lost two employees at the refuge.  We were understaffed before, and now if we lose visitors, my job is  next. The Bosque brings in thousands of tourism dollars to Socorro, New  Mexico. This isn't just about jobs. It is about the future of our  communities, and what is happening is reckless.

Madison, a former probationary Federal employee in Carlsbad, New  Mexico, told me: I lost my dream job on February 14. Many of us had  moved hours away from our families to serve. In Carlsbad alone, the  government wasted nearly half a million taxpayer dollars training us,  only to fire us months later. These mass firings cannot go unnoticed.

Claudia, who worked at Carlsbad Caverns National Park, shared this:  In 4\1/2\ months, I dedicated myself to my work, training others,  providing emergency medical services, ensuring visitor safety. Then,  without warning, I was fired. I was told I failed to prove my skills,  despite my experience, my positive evaluations, and my commitment. How  does firing somebody making less than $40,000 a year solve the debt  crisis?

These are the voices of our rural communities. They are not nameless,  faceless numbers to be scratched off by somebody who wasn't even  elected by the American people. From their country and from this  administration, they deserve better.

As Elon Musk is busy firing thousands of New Mexicans, the Republican  majority is preparing today a budget that offers American taxpayer  dollars to give massive tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires. I  hope that my colleagues can justify eliminating a $40,000 Federal job  at a national park for wildfire prevention so that a millionaire can  take another summer vacation to Aruba.

I urge my colleagues to recognize the human cost of these reckless  firings and funding freezes. I am sure the constituents of my  colleagues will make it clear to them even if they don't listen to us  today.

(English translation of the statement made in Spanish by Mr. Vasquez  is as follows:)

Mr. Speaker, I want to recognize a group of individuals who are the  life force of our nation: our farmworkers. Their commitment and  tireless efforts in the field ensure that every family in this country  can access fresh, nutritious food. I see and hear you, and I am proud  to represent you.

Every day, these tireless workers face challenges that require  strength and perseverance. Whether enduring extreme weather conditions  or working long hours, their work sustains our economy and feeds our  communities. Behind every meal we enjoy is the constant dedication of  farm workers, who often go unnoticed.

Mr. Speaker, hoy quiero reconocer a un grupo de personas que son la  fuerza vital de nuestra nacion: nuestros trabajadores agricolas.

Su compromiso y esfuerzos incansables en el campo aseguran que todas  las familias de este pais puedan tener alimentos frescos y nutritivos.  Los veo y los escucho y estoy orgulloso de representarlos.

Cada dia, estos trabajadores incansables enfrentan desafios que  requieren fortaleza y dedicacion. Trabajan muchas horas en condiciones  climaticas extremas para sostener nuestra economia y alimentar a  nuestras comunidades. Detras de la comida que disfrutamos esta la  dedicacion constante de los trabajadores del campo que muchas veces son  invisibles en este pais.