Recognizing Ronnie Torres


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699893/recognizing-ronnie-torres


Mr. VASQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Ronnie Torres for  his outstanding contributions to Belen, New Mexico. Ronnie is an  exceptional citizen and neighbor who tirelessly dedicates his time and  energy to improving his local community.

Ronnie was born and raised in a small community south of Belen in  Jarales, New Mexico. From an early age, he learned the value of hard  work and getting involved in his community, and these values shine  through in all he does today. Over forty years ago, Ronnie opened his  own business, Hair Innovations, where he provides salon services and  keeps New Mexicans feeling like the best versions of themselves to this  very day.

Keeping a small business open in today's economic environment is no  small feat, and Ronnie has endured many challenges along the way, such  as dealing with a recent car crash into his storefront. Hair  Innovations temporarily relocated while Ronnie is rebuilding, but he is  bouncing back with perseverance and his neighbors' support--embodying  the grit and resilience that is so core to who we are as New Mexicans.

As a self-made business owner, it is clear Ronnie strongly believes  in giving back to his community and creating experiences for other  people that he did not have growing up. He is involved throughout the  community, including serving on the local Chamber Board and later  becoming its president. In this role, Ronnie was integral in  establishing the Miracle on Main Street Electric Christmas Parade,  which is now celebrated across New Mexico and in other parts of the  country.

Ronnie also served as a member of the Belen City Council and as  former Mayor of the City of Belen for over fifteen years. During his  mayorship, he worked on amazing projects, such as renovating the Harvey  House Museum, establishing a Festival of Trees, and providing the long- time display of the Bugg Lights. His work has not only improved the  city but established a community where people can look forward to  raising their children, supporting their neighbors, and being proud to  call Belen home.

On behalf of the people of New Mexico's 2nd Congressional District, I  would like to thank Ronnie Torres. We are grateful for his heartfelt  contributions to Belen and his continued dedication to improving the  lives of New Mexicans.