Recognizing Pete Benavidez


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701485/recognizing-pete-benavidez


Mr. VASQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Pete Benavidez  for his outstanding contributions to New Mexico's veteran community and  his service to our country. Pete is a veteran who devotes his free time  to advocating for and helping other veterans in his community.

Pete is originally from Albuquerque, New Mexico, and he now lives in  Belen. For over twenty years, Pete served and protected our country in  both the Army and the New Mexico National Guard. During his service, he  worked as a Track Vehicle Repairer and was deployed to combat.

While conducting a recovery operation for a vehicle, Pete was injured  by an Improvised Explosive Device, which caused severe brain damage and  resulted in him being medically discharged from the military. Pete  attempted to work several jobs after his discharge but could not  maintain employment because of his combat-related disability. As Pete  faced health challenges, he sought help from his local Department of  Veterans Affairs and the Raymond G. Murphy VA Medical Center. There he  received treatment that improved his health, allowed him to continue  working towards being a family man, and pushed him to serve his  community.

To this day, Pete remains an active force in New Mexico's veteran  community and shares his story to bring awareness to the greatest  issues impacting veterans. During my time in Congress, he has worked  closely with my office to advocate for the Major Richard Star Act and  other measures to improve veterans' lives. In his free time, he  supports other veterans in his community by helping them apply for VA  benefits, educating them on services available to them, and even  driving veterans to their appointments and veteran group meetings.  Pete's commitment to service continues through his son, who is now  serving in the New Mexico National Guard.

On behalf of the people of New Mexico's 2nd Congressional District, I  would like to thank Pete for his service to our country and his  commitment to ensuring our brave men and women receive the care and  support they deserve.