Breaking the Gridlock Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698800/breaking-the-gridlock-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to $100 billion worth of bailouts  for a broken system that is fueled by Democratic mandates.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to subsidizing insurance plans for  wealthy people. Any support for the bill ensures that subsidies go to  wealthy families making as much as $600,000 a year.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to using hard-earned taxpayer  dollars to bail Democrats out of their own decision--their own  decision--to make this COVID-era spending temporary so that they could  give Green New Deal tax breaks to the wealthy for electric vehicles and  solar panels.

They had the option. They had the option to make it permanent twice,  whether it was in the American Rescue Plan or the Inflation Reduction  Act. Instead, they wanted to put their resources into their wealthy  environmentalists.

Check the math. Nearly half of all Americans get their insurance from  their employer, nearly a quarter from Medicaid, and a bit less than  that from Medicare.

Mr. Speaker, only 7 percent of the population relies on ObamaCare  marketplace plans. This Chamber should be about helping 100 percent of  Americans, and lowering the cost of healthcare and premiums, not just 7  percent.

Mr. Speaker, it is shameful that Democrats are only focusing on 7  percent of the population while ignoring the millions of working  families who are struggling to afford healthcare.

Since ObamaCare was enacted, premiums have increased by 80 percent.  Since ObamaCare was enacted--let me say that again--the premiums have  increased by 80 percent. Deductibles and out-of-pocket costs have  skyrocketed. Families worry about medical debt--that is, those who  still have access to doctors. In fact, 150 rural hospitals have closed  since passage of ObamaCare, and small businesses were crushed under the  weight of the new mandates.

Not only did Democrats refuse to fix any of this, but they want to  make it permanent at a cost of $400 billion. No thanks, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, reverting these tax credits back to the original  structure that the Democrats designed means that 93 percent of  enrollees will still retain very generous subsidies next year. Mr.  Speaker, 60 percent of the enrollees will still have access to a plan  at or below $50 a month.

I represent one of the poorest congressional districts in the  country, and still, 99.7 percent of my constituents in my district, one  of the poorest congressional districts, will be unaffected by this  expiration.

This is all about subsidizing the wealthy, so why are we even having  this debate? It is because Democrats chose to make these giveaways  temporary--not once, but twice, Mr. Speaker--as part of their partisan  spending bills. The reason they did so was to shower the rich with  Green New Deal subsidies, which they made permanent. We reversed those  in the big, beautiful bill.

Mr. Speaker, here is a word you won't hear from Democrats: ``fraud.''  They forced taxpayers to pay up to $27 billion for as many as 6.4  million individuals fraudulently enrolled in the ObamaCare plans.  Nearly half of all enrollees--that is, 12 million people--didn't even  file one single medical claim, not even a prescription, all year, last  year. It sounds like they didn't even know that they had insurance  through ObamaCare, but those insurance companies were subsidized,  almost half of them, on the exchanges.

If Democrats think that is not a problem, that is pretty scary.

I called on the Government Accountability Office to investigate. They  created fictitious ObamaCare applicants with fake documentation, and  100 percent--not some, but 100 percent; not half, but 100 percent--were  approved in the first year, and 90 percent are still being subsidized,  resulting in checks worth more than $12,000 per month going to  insurance companies.

One Social Security number was associated with more than 125  different ObamaCare policies. One Social Security number was tied to  more than 125 policies--waste, fraud, abuse. Apparently, the other side  doesn't see that. They don't see the truth. In fact, more than 58,000  dead people were being subsidized, according to the Government  Accountability Office.

In response, Democrats only brag about higher health insurance  enrollment. They are really celebrating.  What they are celebrating is subsidizing insurers for people without a  pulse. For Democrats, fraud comes first.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans are putting real, living Americans first.  Republicans blocked illegal immigrants' access to taxpayer-funded  healthcare benefits, then eliminated over $185 billion worth of fraud  and waste in the ObamaCare marketplace. For Americans who are eligible,  Republicans actually lowered ObamaCare premiums and expanded access to  health savings accounts, direct primary care, and telehealth for  millions, including ObamaCare enrollees, as part of the Working  Families Tax Cuts.

There was $50 billion invested in the healthcare needs of rural  communities. The Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act was  passed, which also lowered premiums even further, as well as provided  more freedom and flexibility for healthcare access and increased  competition by negotiating better drug prices for workers.

Mr. Speaker, I will take greater access to affordable healthcare any  day over shoveling more tax dollars into Democrats' healthcare fraud  schemes. I oppose this legislation, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, Hyde amendment protections need to be added to this  bill. Taxpayer funds should not be forced to subsidize the killing of  an unborn child by dismemberment or by baby poison pills.

The Hyde amendment was not--I will say it again, was not--included  when the ACA was enacted in 2010, nor was it included when President  Biden significantly expanded subsidies during COVID.

It has gotten so bad, Mr. Speaker, that, according to a 2025 article  by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 12 States, including my own State of  New Jersey, absolutely require all plans on the ACA marketplace to  cover abortion on demand. We permit abortion until birth in my State,  as do many others. That is all covered by ObamaCare.

The House has passed my bill, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion  Act, on four separate occasions beginning in 2011. It is pending again  in this Congress, but every time it has gone over to the Senate, it got  nowhere, sadly.

I remember the day, Mr. Speaker, when my friend and colleague, the  author of the amendment, Henry Hyde, first learned that about 1 million  children were alive because of his amendment. He was overcome with joy.  He had a tear in his eye. I was there when it happened, when he found  out that 1 million mothers were spared the agony of post-abortion pain,  and 1 million children were alive and well, growing up, going to  school, playing sports, dating, marrying, and having kids of their own.

Today, that number is estimated at over 2.6 million children not  aborted, all because abortion subsidies have been prohibited by the  Hyde amendment in Federal Medicaid programs and other HHS programs.

It is time to add the Hyde amendment to the ACA.

I believe it is time, as well, for all of us to face the harsh  reality of what abortion does to children and look beyond the slogans  and the surface appeal arguments.

The so-called abortion pill, mifepristone, is baby poison. It kills  the unborn child by how? Starving the innocent child to death. That is  its operation. They can't get food, so they die. Then, the body of that  baby is often flushed down the toilet.

We know, however, now, that mifepristone is extremely dangerous to  women. A big study, the biggest study ever done, found that 1 in 10  women experienced serious adverse events.

Mr. Speaker, that is not what you hear from the abortion lobby. You  hear about how safe it is. It ain't safe. They suffer things like  sepsis, infection, and hemorrhaging, all within about 45 days.

Let me also say to my colleagues, another method of aborting a baby  is dismemberment. It tears the child's fragile body to pieces and  includes decapitation. Until rendered unconscious or dead by this  hideous procedure, the baby feels pain with every cut of the knife.

It is no wonder that the polling shows that the majority of Americans  do not want public funding for abortion. Abortion is the polar opposite  of healthcare.

Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, abortion is not healthcare  unless one construes the life of an unborn child to be analogous to a  tumor to be excised or a disease to be vanquished.

I appeal to my colleagues: Don't ignore or trivialize the battered  victim in the womb. Unborn babies need Members of Congress to be their  friends and advocates, not powerful adversaries.

Abortion violence must be replaced with compassion and empathy for  women and respect for the weakest and most vulnerable.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I remind this body that the  reason why these COVID-era tax credits expired is because the Democrats  focused all their resources on helping their wealthy environmentalists  with permanent tax credits for electric vehicles and solar panels.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a  bombshell GAO report documenting evidence of widespread fraud, with  billions of dollars going to fraudulent enrollees, including as many as  58,000 dead people.                                                    U.S. Government                                           Accountability Office,                                   Washington, DC, December 3, 2025.      Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: Preliminary           Results from Ongoing Review Suggest Fraud Risks in the           Advance Premium Tax Credit Persist      Hon. Brett Guthrie,      Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,      House of Representatives.      Hon. Jim Jordan,      Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives.      Hon. Jason Smith,      Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,      House of Representatives.

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA)       provides premium tax credits to those who purchase private       health insurance plans and meet certain income and other       requirements. Individuals may have the federal government pay       this credit to their health insurance issuers in advance on       their behalf, known as the advance premium tax credit (APTC),       which lowers their monthly premium payments.

Millions of consumers have purchased health insurance plans       through the marketplaces established under PPACA. The Centers       for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), within the Department       of Health and Human Services (HHS), is responsible for       maintaining the federal Marketplace and overseeing state-      based marketplaces. Under PPACA, states may elect to operate       their own state-based marketplace or to use the federal       Marketplace. These marketplaces determine eligibility for       APTC, based in part on income, and allow individuals to       compare and choose among insurance plans offered by       participating private health care coverage issuers. CMS       estimated it paid nearly $124 billion in APTC for about 19.5       million enrollees for plan year 2024.

Consumers can enroll in health insurance coverage through a       marketplace independently or with assistance, such as from an       insurance agent or broker. As discussed later in this report,       agents and brokers can help a consumer apply for coverage,       including for related financial assistance, and enroll in a       plan. Assistance from an agent or broker is of no cost to a       consumer. Rather, agents and brokers are allowed to receive       compensation directly from health insurance issuers in       accordance with agreements with those issuers and any       applicable state requirements.

Indictments from December 2024 and February 2025 highlight       concerns about agent and broker practices in the federal       Marketplace. Specifically, the indictments allege that bad       actors enrolled consumers in insurance through the federal       Marketplace by falsifying information on their applications.       Additionally, according to CMS, the agency received       approximately 275,000 complaints between January and August       2024 that consumers were enrolled in a plan or had their plan       changed without their consent. Such practices can result in       wasteful federal spending on APTC for enrollees who are not       eligible. Further, such practices can result in harm and       unexpected costs for consumers. These can include loss of       access to medical providers and medications, higher       copayments and deductibles, or repayment of APTC if income or       other eligibility was misrepresented.

We previously reported that APTC is at risk of fraud. For       example, in September 2016, we found that federal and state       marketplaces approved coverage for our fictitious applicants.       Nearly all of these fictitious applicants remained covered       after we sent fictitious documents or no documents to resolve       issues with our applications. Further, in July 2017, we found       that CMS did not design processes to verify eligibility for       APTC, including preventing duplicate coverage.

You asked us to review issues related to fraud risk       management in APTC. This report is based on preliminary       results and analyses from that ongoing work. Specifically,       this report addresses preliminary results from our

1. covert testing of federal Marketplace enrollment       controls for plan years 2024 and 2025,

2. analyses of federal Marketplace enrollment data for plan       years 2023 and 2024, and

3. evaluation of CMS's fraud risk assessment and antifraud       strategy for APTC.

To perform covert testing of federal Marketplace enrollment       controls, we created 20 fictitious identities and submitted       applications for individual health care coverage in the       federal Marketplace. We submitted applications for four of       these fictitious identities in October 2024 for coverage       through December 2024, which was the remainder of that plan       year. We pursued coverage for plan year 2025 for all 20       fictitious identities, including the four identities for       which we already submitted applications. Our covert testing       for plan year 2025 is ongoing, since the plan year is not yet       complete. As a result, we will describe additional details of       the 2025 applications in a future report.

Our covert testing included applications submitted       independently through HealthCare.gov, which is the federal       Marketplace's website, and applications submitted with       assistance from an insurance agent or broker. For all our       applicant scenarios, we sought to act as an ordinary consumer       would in attempting to make a successful application. For       example, if, during online applications, we were directed to       make phone calls to complete the process, we acted as       instructed.

For applications for plan year 2024, our covert tests       included fictitious applicants       who provided invalid (i.e., never issued) Social Security       numbers (SSN). Additionally, we stated income at a level       eligible to obtain APTC. As appropriate, we used publicly       available information to construct our applications for       coverage and subsidies. We also used publicly available       hardware, software, and materials to produce counterfeit       documents that we submitted, if appropriate for our testing,       when instructed to do so. We then observed the outcomes of       the document submissions, such as any approvals received or       requests to provide additional supporting documentation. The       results of our covert testing, while illustrative of       potential enrollment control weaknesses, cannot be       generalized to the overall enrollment population.

To examine federal Marketplace enrollment for plan years       2023 and 2024, we obtained and analyzed federal Marketplace       enrollment and payment data, including APTC information, from       CMS. We also matched enrollee SSNs in the data to two       additional data sources: (1) Social Security Administration's       (SSA) full death file, a database containing records of death       that have been reported to SSA, as of November 2024 and (2)       April 2025 data from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on       APTC reconciliation from tax forms filed for tax year 2023.       We assessed the reliability of all data sets by performing       electronic tests to determine the completeness and accuracy       of key fields. We also reviewed agency documentation and       interviewed knowledgeable agency officials about the       reliability of the data. Overall, we found that the data were       reliable for our purposes.

To examine CMS's fraud risk assessment and antifraud       strategy for APTC, we reviewed documentation of CMS's       policies and fraud risk management activities related to       APTC. This included CMS's 2018 fraud risk assessment for       APTC. Additionally, we interviewed agency officials about       CMS's fraud risk management activities in this program. We       reviewed relevant reports from GAO and HHS's Office of the       Inspector General. We evaluated information from relevant       documentation and interviews of agency officials against       relevant leading practices in GAO's A Framework for Managing       Fraud Risks in Federal Programs (Fraud Risk Framework).

To support all three objectives, we interviewed CMS       officials and representatives from seven stakeholder       organizations that represent agents and brokers, state       insurance regulators, researchers, and one of the entities       that CMS approved to host a non-marketplace website where       consumers can apply for and enroll in a plan offered through       the federal Marketplace.

The ongoing work upon which this report is based is being       conducted in accordance with generally accepted government       auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and       perform the audit to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence       to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and       conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that       the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our       preliminary findings and conclusions based on our audit       objectives. Additionally, our related investigative work is       being conducted in accordance with standards prescribed by       the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and       Efficiency.                                 Background                  APTC ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLLMENT PROCESSES       APTC Eligibility

To qualify for a premium tax credit, individuals must be       enrolled in a qualified health plan offered through a       marketplace and meet certain criteria. These tax credits can       be paid in advance through APTC.

The amount of the premium tax credit varies based on       household income and the cost of a benchmark plan. The credit       limits what the consumer would pay for that plan to be no       more than a certain percentage of their household income. The       American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 made temporary changes to       premium tax credits by expanding eligibility to higher-income       individuals and increasing premium tax credits for lower-      income individuals for tax years 2021 and 2022. For example,       the law increased the premium tax credit amounts for eligible       individuals and families, resulting in access to plans with       no premium contributions for those earning 100 to 150 percent       of the federal poverty level. It also expanded eligibility       for premium tax credits to include certain individuals and       families with incomes at or above 400 percent of the federal       poverty level. Public Law 117-169--commonly known as the       Inflation Reduction Act of 2022--extended these provisions       through the end of tax year 2025.

In 2013, CMS developed the Data Services Hub (Hub) to help       verify applicant eligibility in an automated manner. To do       so, the Hub matches applicant information, such as SSN and       estimated income, against trusted data sources. These sources       include records from SSA and IRS. In the federal Marketplace,       the system generates an inconsistency when data matching       processes are not able to verify applicant information       against the Hub's trusted sources. When an inconsistency is       generated, applicants are instructed to provide documentation       to support information on their applications that cannot be       verified by the Hub's data matching.       Marketplaces and Enrollment Pathways

States, along with the District of Columbia, may elect to       rely on the federal Marketplace or operate their own health       insurance marketplace.

The federal Marketplace offers multiple pathways to enroll       in health insurance coverage and receive APTC. Consumers in       states that use the federal Marketplace may enroll in       coverage through the pathway known as HealthCare.gov or an       enhanced direct enrollment (EDE) pathway, among others.       Role of Agents and Brokers

Consumers seeking to obtain health insurance through the       federal Marketplace may receive assistance from agents and       brokers who help them apply for coverage, including related       financial assistance, and enroll in a health plan. In return,       agents and brokers receive payment (commissions or salaries)       from the issuers of the health plans. Agents and brokers must       be licensed in the state in which they sell plans and       registered with CMS to sell plans through the federal       Marketplace. According to CMS, most enrollments in the       federal Marketplace are assisted by an agent or broker       through the EDE and direct enrollment pathways.

CMS is responsible for oversight of agents and brokers in       the federal Marketplace and ensuring that they comply with       federal rules. Agents and brokers are required to, among       other things, obtain and document consumers' consent before       assisting them with applying for and enrolling in coverage       through the federal Marketplace. For example, consumer       consent is required before the agent or broker can

collect or use any personally identifiable information,       such as name, date of birth, and SSN;

help a consumer apply for coverage or financial assistance       by completing an eligibility application on their behalf; and

actively enroll a consumer in a plan offered through the       federal Marketplace.

After a consumer has applied or is enrolled, the agent or       broker can also update a consumer's eligibility application       or plan selection on their behalf, if the initial consent       authorized the agent or broker to do so, or if they obtained       subsequent consent for any new actions. Agents and brokers       are required to make documentation of consumer consent       available to CMS upon request in response to monitoring,       audit, and enforcement actions.       Fraud Risk Management

The objective of fraud risk management is to ensure program       integrity by continuously and strategically mitigating both       the likelihood and effects of fraud, while also facilitating       a program's mission. The Fraud Risk Framework provides a       comprehensive set of leading practices that serve as a guide       for agency managers to use when developing efforts to combat       fraud in a strategic, risk-based manner. As depicted in       figure 2, the framework organizes the leading practices       within four components: (1) Commit, (2) Assess, (3) Design       and Implement, and (4) Evaluate and Adapt.

In June 2016, the Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Act of       2015 (FRDAA) required the Office of Management and Budget       (OMB) to establish guidelines for federal agencies to create       controls to identify and assess fraud risks to design and       implement antifraud control activities. The act further       required OMB to incorporate the leading practices from the       Fraud Risk Framework in the guidelines. The Payment Integrity       Information Act of 2019 repealed FRDAA but maintained the       requirement for OMB to provide guidelines to agencies in       implementing the Fraud Risk Framework.

In its 2016 Circular No. A-123 guidelines, OMB directed       agencies to adhere to the Fraud Risk Framework's leading       practices. In October 2022, OMB issued a Controller Alert       reminding agencies that they must establish financial and       administrative controls to identify and assess fraud risks.       In addition, the alert reminded agencies that they should       adhere to the leading practices in the Fraud Risk Framework       as part of their efforts to effectively design, implement,       and operate an internal control system that addresses fraud       risks.  The Federal Marketplace Approved Subsidized Coverage for Nearly All of     Our Fictitious Applicants in Plan Years 2024 and 2025, Suggesting                             Weaknesses Persist

Our covert testing of enrollment controls in the federal       Marketplace suggests weaknesses have persisted since our       tests in plan years 2015 through 2016. All four of our       fictitious applications received subsidized coverage through       the federal Marketplace in late 2024. Additionally, although       our work is ongoing, as of September 2025 18 of our 20       fictitious applications for plan year 2025 were receiving       subsidized coverage. We will continue to monitor the status       of these applications during plan year 2025.    All Four of Our Fictitious Applicants Received Subsidized Coverage in                                 Late 2024

To test enrollment controls, we developed and submitted       four fictitious applications to obtain insurance coverage       with APTC through the federal Marketplace. We applied for       coverage for these four applicants in October 2024. We       submitted the applications outside of the open enrollment       period, using a special enrollment period for low-income       applicants. In two cases, we applied for coverage directly       through HealthCare.gov. In the other two cases, we applied       via telephone with assistance from an insurance broker. The       brokers that assisted us used EDE systems to submit our       applications.

The federal Marketplace approved fully subsidized insurance       coverage for all four of our fictitious applicants for       November through December 2024. The combined total amount of       APTC paid to insurance companies for all four fictitious       enrollees was about $2,350 per month. While our fictitious       enrollees are not generalizable to the universe of enrollees,       they suggest weaknesses in enrollment controls--such as       identity proofing and income verification--in the federal       Marketplace through both HealthCare.gov and EDE systems.

The results of our covert testing for plan year 2024 are       generally consistent with results of similar testing we       conducted for plan years 2014 through 2016.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I will remind the body that the reason why these  enhanced subsidies are expiring is because the Democrats are the only  ones in this Chamber who voted for them to expire on December 31.  Apparently, they regret that vote because they focused most of their  dollars on making permanent environmental tax policy in the Green New  Deal.

Mr. Speaker, they are the only ones who have voted to take away these  subsidies. It is laughable, Mr. Speaker, when you hear Members on the  other side say that the Republicans created this healthcare crisis.

Guess what. It was the Democrats who wrote the Affordable Care Act  that is being debated on the floor right now. They are upset because,  as of December 31, it reverted back to the Affordable Care Act, which  they have championed, what they passed, not Republicans, Democrats.

Mr. Speaker, the healthcare crisis is clearly created by the  Democrats.

We have highlighted the fraud and waste within the exchanges. More  than half of the people on the exchanges did not even file one medical  claim last year, but those insurance companies were being subsidized.

I want to remind the American people that not $1 goes to them. It all  goes to the big health insurance companies that have been doing very  well, while premiums for every single American have been rising for the  last decade and a half.

Mr. Speaker, with that, I urge this body to vote ``no.''