Chronic Disease Flexible Coverage Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688475/chronic-disease-flexible-coverage-act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 919) to codify Internal Revenue Service guidance  relating to treatment of certain services and items for chronic  conditions as meeting the preventive care deductible safe harbor for  purposes of high deductible health plans in connection with health  savings accounts.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 919           Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives       of the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.           This Act may be cited as the ``Chronic Disease Flexible       Coverage Act''.       SEC. 2. SERVICES AND ITEMS FOR CHRONIC CONDITIONS TREATED AS                     PREVENTIVE CARE.           (a) In General.--The additional preventive care services       and items for chronic conditions that may be treated as       preventive care for purposes of section 223(c)(2)(C) of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as set forth in IRS Notice       2019-45 shall have the same force and effect as if included       in the enactment of this Act.          (b) No Inference.--To the extent not inconsistent with       this section, no inference shall be made from subsection (a)       with respect to such other rules or guidance as the Secretary       has provided, or may provide, with respect to preventive       services for purposes of section 223(c)(2)(C) of such Code.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Chronic Disease Flexible  Coverage Act, introduced by Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman  Vern Buchanan and our Ways and Means colleague, Representative   Jimmy  Panetta.

This legislation provides employers and their employees with greater  flexibility to design healthcare coverage options that expand access to  treatments for chronic diseases.

The chronic disease epidemic has, unfortunately, impacted nearly  every family in America and represents a significant share of our  healthcare spending. In fact, 90 percent of the $4.1 trillion this  country spends each year on healthcare goes toward chronic disease.  This is not surprising when you realize that 60 percent of Americans  suffer from some form of chronic disease, whether it be heart disease,  diabetes, or cancer.

So many Americans would benefit from having healthcare coverage that  is not only more affordable but more responsive to their needs so that  they can better manage their health.

Last Congress, the House of Representatives approved a version of  this legislation, but unfortunately, we were not able to get the bill  across the finish line. However, with President Trump back in the White  House, we are moving this bill once again, a bill that further  strengthens a policy put in place during the first Trump  administration.

For the 53 percent of employers that offer high deductible health  plans to their employees, they would now be able to improve those  options by allowing predeductible coverage of critical chronic care  management services, including beta blockers, blood pressure monitors,  glucometers, inhalers, and medications and testing to help individuals  with high cholesterol. While the bill includes 14 specific services  that could be covered, it leaves the door open for the list to be  expanded later, as well.

By providing flexible coverage options for more people living with  chronic health conditions, we can help lower their costs and improve  their health and well-being.

I thank Representatives Buchanan and Panetta for their leadership on  this issue, as well as recognize the work of our Ways and Means Health  Subcommittee that held its first hearing this Congress on creating  healthier options for families and raising awareness about the chronic  disease epidemic we have in this country.

As HHS Secretary Kennedy is shining a light on the chronic disease  epidemic, the Ways and Means Committee is leading the charge in  Congress to examine the root causes and delivering solutions, including  this bill before us today.

I encourage all of my colleagues to once again provide strong  bipartisan support for this effort to address chronic disease. I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation is long overdue, particularly given the  enormous size, scope, and cost of America's chronic disease epidemic.  It will put more patients in the driver's seat when it comes to  managing their health, and open doors for folks to get the treatments  that will not only save them money but improve their well-being.

High deductible healthcare plans are already a popular option for  employers to offer their workers. Expanding what services can be  provided under these plans, specifically to help treat chronic  diseases, will only make this a more affordable and useful health  coverage choice for patients.

I encourage my colleagues to support the passage of the Chronic  Disease Flexible Coverage Act, and I yield back the balance of my time.