Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Chair, I want to thank Mr. Arrington for  yielding.

Mr. Chair, 4 years ago, President Trump left Joe Biden a blueprint  for success, and then Democrats proceeded to open our borders,  undermine American energy, and spend trillions of dollars on handouts  to the wealthy.

They created the highest inflation in 40 years that made it  impossible for working families to survive. That is why the American  people sent Donald Trump back to the White House with a mandate. Now it  is up to Congress to deliver on that mandate, to make our economy work  again for working families.

The economy isn't just numbers on a chart. It is the farmer who wakes  up at 4 a.m., the mom or dad working two jobs just to get by, the shop  owner figuring out how to keep the store lights on, and the truck  driver working overtime.

Mr. Chair, let me be clear, a vote against this budget is a vote to  raise taxes on low-income Americans. Mr. Chair, $2.6 trillion of the  tax cuts in this resolution are people making less than $400,000 a  year. Democrats campaigned on not allowing taxes to increase on people  making less than $400,000 a year. Let us see if their voting cards show  up. Extending the Trump tax cuts will give the lowest income families a  tax cut of 15 percent, the highest of any income group.

On the other hand, failing to extend these tax cuts means the average  taxpayer will see a 22 percent tax hike.

The average family of four making $80,000 a year will see their taxes  go up almost $1,700. That is 2 months' worth of groceries.

Americans need certainty that relief is on the way. Workers need  certainty that their taxes won't go up.

Mr. Chair, 26 million small businesses need certainty that their tax  rates won't rise to 43 percent in a few short months so that they can  focus on investing and hiring more workers.

Mr. Chair, 2 million family-owned farms need certainty that they  won't be forced to sell their farm to pay an increased death tax. They  need to know right now if they should be contacting an estate planner  for the massive tax hike that is coming.

Parents need certainty that their guaranteed deduction of $30,000  won't be cut in half and that their child tax credit won't be slashed  from $2,000 to $1,000.

Following passage of the Trump tax cuts, wages increased by 4.9  percent, the fastest 2-year growth in real wages in 20 years. Mr.  Chair, 5 million new jobs were created. More than 6 million people were  lifted out of poverty. Real median household income rose by $5,000. The  economy grew a full percentage point higher than CBO's initial  forecast, and revenues have remained steady at 17 percent of GDP.

Building on President Trump's tax cuts will deliver a new golden age  of prosperity: over 1 million new small business jobs each year, $284  billion in economic growth for more manufacturing, and billions in new  investments to revitalize our poorest neighborhoods.

We will reignite our economy with a return of policies like 100  percent immediate expensing and incentives to make sure R&D is  happening here and not being outsourced around the globe.

We will deliver on President Trump's commitment to tax relief for  tipped workers, help for seniors struggling  with inflation, and tax relief for overtime workers.

President Trump's policies will spark an economic recovery, and that  recovery starts by passing this budget so we can send one big,  beautiful bill to President Trump's desk.