Expressing Support for Tax Policies That Support Working Families


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701795/expressing-support-for-tax-policies-that-support-working-families


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, Pursuant to House Resolution  1147, I call up the resolution (H. Res. 1156) expressing support for  tax policies that support working families, and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1156 and the working  families tax cuts, which have led to this year's historic tax refund  season.

Today, April 15, is tax day. The IRS typically receives around 24  percent of tax returns in April. What millions of Americans are finding  out today is that their tax refund is significantly larger than it has  been in the past, thanks to the working families tax cuts.

Refunds this tax season have increased by 11 percent, with the  average refund over $3,400. Much of that relief is thanks to the  policies championed by President Trump. Over 6 million Americans have  claimed no tax on tips, 25 million Americans have claimed no tax on  overtime, and 30 million taxpayers claimed the Social Security  deduction. Over 1 million Americans claimed the no tax on auto loan  interest.

Who are the folks claiming these deductions? It is working-class  Americans. It is not millionaires. It is not billionaires. Overall,  nearly half of all tax filers this season claimed at least one of those  key provisions.

Under this tax relief, tipped workers get, on average, a $1,300 tax  cut. Hourly workers get, on average, a $1,400 tax cut from no tax on  overtime. A $12,000 deduction for a married couple on Social Security  means a more secure retirement.

When Republicans enacted the working families tax cuts, we made  America's workers, families, farmers, and small businesses our top  priority.

An inconvenient fact that the Democrats don't talk about is that the  share of income taxes paid by the top 1 percent actually went up from  37 percent to 40 percent. The very rich are paying a higher share of  taxes today than they were before passage of this bill. Why? It is  because the other 99 percent of Americans saw the share of their taxes  go down, from 63 percent to 60 percent.

Don't take my word for it. Listen to the stories of everyday  Americans, like Raymond Huff from Colorado, who testified before the  Ways and Means Committee that the working families tax cuts will help  him grow his small business and hire more workers; Nancy Overman from  Nevada, who testified that she will be able to afford basic necessities  without draining her retirement savings, thanks to the no tax on Social  Security; Sharon Simmons, a DoorDash driver--who showed up at the White  House yesterday, in fact--originally from my home State of Missouri,  who testified to how no tax on tips will help her better afford her  husband's medical treatments and travel to Missouri to see her family  more often; or the waitress in my district who told me that she got a  $10,000 tax refund, thanks to the no tax on tips, the expanded child  tax credit, and other provisions. She told me, Mr. Speaker, that  because of that provision, she will be able to pay for her rent for an  entire year and a lot of food for her family.

That makes a huge impact on everyday Americans. Families have more  money in their pockets today, thanks to a boosted and permanent child  tax credit of $2,200. When you add in the permanent increase and the  standard deduction, up to $31,500, a family of four earning $73,000 had  zero Federal tax liability this year.

When they controlled Washington, Democrats spent $10 trillion, and  they created a cost-of-living crisis where inflation went up almost 21  percent.

Under Republican tax relief, we expanded 529 accounts to cover K-12  education expenses and trade schools. We expanded health savings  accounts so that another 10 million Americans can better manage  healthcare costs. For those who are looking to adopt, they have more  access to the adoption tax credit, with $5,000 of that cost being  refundable.

Under Trump Accounts, newborn U.S. citizens in America get a $1,000  investment to start building a more secure financial future. It does  not matter if they live on a city block or on a county road. They  qualify.

Due to the working families tax cuts, Americans have more money to  buy school supplies and put food on their tables. Family farmers and  small businesses have more certainty and resources to invest, to grow,  and to hire. These are the results of Republican tax relief that puts  America's working families first.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I would just like to point out  that for years, Members in this body have tried to implement no tax on  tips. Never before did it ever become law until we passed it within the  Big Beautiful Bill Act. It delivered for a lot of tipped employees. In  fact, 6 million tipped employees used it this tax filing season.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, because of the passage of the One  Big Beautiful Bill Act, also known as the working families tax cuts,  the folks in Brooklyn, New York, will actually face an average tax cut  of $3,341. That is the area that the minority leader represents. I am  happy that Republicans could deliver tax relief for the folks in  Brooklyn, even though their Representative could not do that.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri.  Malliotakis).

Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to point out that 86,800  individuals in the district of the ranking member of the Tax  Subcommittee, who was speaking before me, because of passage of this  bill, those 86,800 families in California will not have $1,000 child  tax credit, they will have a $2,200 tax credit. Those are the people  that are benefiting in this bill that he voted against.

Tenney).

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I think the most important point  about  the child tax credit in the working families tax bill is that it is, in  fact, permanent. It will not be reduced. It will not expire. That is  something that didn't happen when the Democrats were in charge a few  years ago on the child tax credit. They made it temporary.

Mr. Speaker, the working families tax cuts were written for the  working families of this country by the working families of this  country.

After I became chairman, the first hearing that the Ways and Means  Committee held was not here in Washington. It was at a lumberyard in  Petersburg, West Virginia, ``The State of the American Economy:  Appalachia.''

We then traveled across the country, listening to workers and job  creators and families in Yukon, Oklahoma; in Peachtree City, Georgia;  and in Erie, Pennsylvania. We heard directly from waiters and  waitresses, factory workers, retirees, welders, and small business  owners about how tax relief would benefit them.

Under this bill, a family of four who makes less than $73,000 a year  will have zero in Federal tax liability. This is tax relief for  Americans who need it the most.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.