Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698853/haiti-economic-lift-program-extension-act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 6504) to extend duty-free treatment provided with  respect to imports from Haiti under the Caribbean Basin Economic  Recovery Act, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6504

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Haiti Economic Lift Program       Extension Act''.       SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF SPECIAL RULES FOR HAITI UNDER CARIBBEAN                     BASIN ECONOMIC RECOVERY ACT.

Section 213A of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act       (19 U.S.C. 2703a) is amended--

(1) in subsection (b)--

(A) in paragraph (1)--

(i) by amending subparagraph (B)(v)(I) to read as follows:

``(I) Applicable percentage.--The term `applicable       percentage' means 60 percent or more on and after December       20, 2017.''; and

(ii) by amending subparagraph (C) to read as follows:

``(C) Quantitative limitations.--The preferential treatment       described in subparagraph (A) shall be extended, during each       period after the initial applicable 1-year period, to not       more than 1.25 percent of the aggregate square meter       equivalents of all apparel articles imported into the United       States in the most recent 12-month period for which data are       available.''; and

(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``in each of the 16       succeeding 1-year periods'' each place it appears and       inserting ``in any of the succeeding 1-year periods''; and

(2) by amending subsection (h) to read as follows:

``(h) Termination.--The duty-free treatment provided under       this section shall remain in effect until December 31,       2028.''.       SEC. 3. RESTORATION OF ELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN ARTICLES FOR                     PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT.

(a) In General.--The President shall proclaim such       modifications to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United       States as may be necessary to restore the eligibility of       articles described in subsection (b) for preferential       treatment under section 213A of the Caribbean Basin Economic       Recovery Act (19 U.S.C. 2703a).

(b) Articles Described.--An article described in this       subsection is an article that--

(1) was eligible for preferential treatment under section       213A of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (19 U.S.C.       2703a) on December 20, 2006; and

(2) became ineligible for such treatment after that date       and before the date of the enactment of this Act as a result       of revisions to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule.

(c) Effective Date of Proclamation.--A proclamation under       subsection (a) shall take effect not earlier than 2 business       days after the President submits to the Committee on Finance       of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the       House of Representatives a report on the proclamation and the       reasons for the modifications to the Harmonized Tariff       Schedule under the proclamation.       SEC. 4. RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.

(a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 514 of the Tariff       Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1514) or any other provision of law,       and subject to paragraph (2), any entry of a covered article       to which duty-free treatment or other preferential treatment       under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (19 U.S.C.       2701 et seq.) would have applied if the entry had been made       before September 30, 2025, that was made--

(1) on or after September 30, 2025, and

(2) before the date of the enactment of this Act,      shall be liquidated or reliquidated as though such entry       occurred on the date of the enactment of this Act.

(b) Requests.--A liquidation or reliquidation may be made       under paragraph (1) with respect to an entry only if a       request therefor is filed with the Commissioner of U.S.       Customs and Border Protection not later than 180 days after       the date of the enactment of this Act that contains       sufficient information to enable such Commissioner--

(1) to locate the entry; or

(2) to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be located.

(c) Payment of Amounts Owed.--Any amounts owed by the       United States pursuant to the liquidation or reliquidation of       an entry of a covered article under paragraph (1) shall be       paid, without interest of any kind, not later than 90 days       after the date of the liquidation or reliquidation (as the       case may be).

(d) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Covered article.--The term ``covered article'' means an       article from Haiti.

(2) Entry.--The term ``entry'' includes a withdrawal from       warehouse for consumption.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6504, the Haiti  Economic Lift Program Extension Act, introduced by my colleague,  Representative Murphy.

This legislation extends the HOPE and HELP trade preference programs  which provide trade preferences for certain apparel and textile imports  from Haiti.

Haiti has endured years of profound hardship, political instability,  economic collapse, and repeated natural disasters. As our bill author,  Dr. Murphy, shares from his time serving as a medical missionary in  Haiti, these trade programs represent an economic lifeline that  supports tens of thousands of jobs and sustain one of the last  remaining formal industries in the country.

Failing to extend these programs would further destabilize an already  fragile situation, worsening humanitarian conditions. Strengthening  economic opportunity in Haiti promotes regional stability, pushes back  on malign actors trying to gain influence with our neighbors, and  advances U.S. interests. Prosperity in our hemisphere enhances security  right here at home.

Renewing HOPE and HELP supports nearshoring and more resilient supply  chains, benefiting American workers and businesses, while reducing  reliance on distant and unreliable sources.

I commend Dr. Murphy for his leadership on this issue. Through his  numerous trips to Haiti, he has seen firsthand the human consequences  of economic collapse. He also understands the value these programs  provide to American businesses, including those in North Carolina that  have built reliable partnerships in Haiti.

Last month, the Ways and Means Committee passed this bill  unanimously, 41-0, a strong bipartisan signal that these programs work.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may  consume to the gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. Smith).

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may  consume to the gentleman from New York (Mr. Lawler).

This bill represents a practical, bipartisan step toward stability,  security, and shared prosperity right here in our hemisphere.

By renewing the HOPE and HELP programs, we reinforce an effective  trade partnership that supports jobs in Haiti, strengthens American  supply chains, and advances our nearshoring goals. At a time when Haiti  faces extraordinary challenges, Congress should not end a program that  has proven to be a force for economic opportunity and regional  stability in our hemisphere.

This legislation passed the Ways and Means Committee unanimously  because members on both sides recognize the humanitarian and strategic  value these programs provide. A stable economy in Haiti contributes to  a more secure United States.

I commend Dr. Murphy for his leadership, and I urge adoption of the  Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.