Hospital Inpatient Services Modernization Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697169/hospital-inpatient-services-modernization-act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 4313) to amend title XVIII of the Social Security  Act to extend acute hospital care at home waiver flexibilities, and to  require an additional study and report on such flexibilities, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4313

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Hospital Inpatient Services       Modernization Act''.       SEC. 2. EXTENDING ACUTE HOSPITAL CARE AT HOME WAIVER                     FLEXIBILITIES.

Section 1866G(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1395cc-7(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``January 30, 2026''       and inserting ``September 30, 2030''.       SEC. 3. REQUIRING ADDITIONAL STUDY AND REPORT ON ACUTE                     HOSPITAL CARE AT HOME WAIVER FLEXIBILITIES.

Section 1866G of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395cc-      7), as amended by section 2, is further amended--

(1) in subsection (a)(3)(E)--

(A) in clause (ii), by striking ``the study described in       subsection (b)'' and inserting ``the studies described in       subsections (b) and (c)''; and

(B) by adding at the end the following new flush sentence:      ``The Secretary may require that such data and information be       submitted through a hospital's cost report, through such       survey instruments as the Secretary may develop, through       medical record information, or through such other means as       the Secretary determines appropriate.'';

(2) in subsection (b)--

(A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Study'' and       inserting ``Initial Study''; and

(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or subsection (c)''       before the period at the end;

(3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections       (d) and (e), respectively; and

(4) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new       subsection:

``(c) Subsequent Study and Report.--

``(1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2028, the       Secretary shall conduct a study to--

``(A) analyze, to the extent practicable, the criteria       established by hospitals under the Acute Hospital Care at       Home initiative to determine which individuals may be       furnished services under such initiative; and

``(B) analyze and compare (both within and between       hospitals participating in the initiative, and relative to       comparable hospitals that do not participate in the       initiative, for relevant parameters such as diagnosis-related       groups)--

``(i) quality of care furnished to individuals with similar       conditions and characteristics in the inpatient setting and       through the Acute Hospital Care at Home initiative, including       health outcomes, hospital readmission rates (including       readmissions both within and beyond 30 days post-discharge),       hospital mortality rates, length of stay, infection rates,       composition of care team (including the types of labor used,       such as contracted labor), the ratio of nursing staff,       transfers from the hospital to the home, transfers from the       home to the hospital (including the timing, frequency, and       causes of such transfers), transfers and discharges to post-      acute care settings (including the timing, frequency, and       causes of such transfers and discharges), and patient and       caregiver experience of care;

``(ii) clinical conditions treated and diagnosis-related       groups of discharges from inpatient settings relative to       discharges from the Acute Hospital Care at Home initiative;

``(iii) costs incurred by the hospital for furnishing care       in inpatient settings relative to costs incurred by the       hospital for furnishing care through the Acute Hospital Care       at Home initiative, including costs relating to staffing,       equipment, food, prescriptions, and other services, as       determined by the Secretary;

``(iv) the quantity, mix, and intensity of services (such       as in-person visits and virtual contacts with patients and       the intensity of such services) furnished in inpatient       settings relative to the Acute Hospital Care at Home       initiative, and, to the extent practicable, the nature and       extent of family or caregiver involvement;

``(v) socioeconomic information on individuals treated in       comparable inpatient settings relative to the initiative,       including racial and ethnic data, income, housing, geographic       proximity to the brick-and-mortar facility and whether such       individuals are dually eligible for benefits under this title       and title XIX; and

``(vi) the quality of care, outcomes, costs, quantity and       intensity of services, and other relevant metrics between       individuals who entered into the Acute Hospital Care at Home       initiative directly from an emergency department compared       with individuals who entered into the Acute Hospital Care at       Home initiative directly from an existing inpatient stay in a       hospital.

``(2) Selection bias.--In conducting the study under       paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, to the extent       practicable, analyze and compare individuals who participate       and do not participate in the initiative controlling for       selection bias or other factors that may impact the       reliability of data.

``(3) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2028, the       Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to the       Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives       and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report on the       study conducted under paragraph (1).

``(4) Funding.--In addition to amounts otherwise available,       there is appropriated to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid       Services Program Management Account for fiscal year 2026, out       of any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,       $2,500,000, to remain available until expended, for purposes       of carrying out this subsection.''.       SEC. 4. MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT FUND.

Section 1898(b)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1395iii(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``$1,403,000,000'' and       inserting ``$1,400,500,000''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Hospital Inpatient Services  Modernization Act introduced by the Committee on Ways and Means Health  Subcommittee chairman, Mr. Buchanan, and Congressman Dwight Evans.

I think one of the healthcare-related conversations that frustrates a  lot of us around here is the typical year-end healthcare policy  extender mess.

The legislation in front of us takes the successful hospital at home  program and removes it from that chaos by providing it with a renewed  5-year authorization so more Americans can receive care in the comfort  and convenience of their own home.

Hospital at home has become embedded in the fabric of our healthcare  system. More than 400 hospitals in nearly 40 States have participated  in the program, which has built a track record of improved patient  outcomes.

In Health Subcommittee Chairman Buchanan's home State of Florida  alone, there are 23 hospitals participating in this program. Hospital  care provided at home cuts mortality rates, reduces the risk of falls  and infections, and lowers recovery times. It also can save costs  versus expensive in-person hospital visits. It is no wonder that 99  percent of patients said they were satisfied with the program.

At a Ways and Means Committee hearing, we heard the incredible story  of a hospital at home patient from North Carolina named Roy who was  diagnosed with sepsis and initially treated in a hospital. There, he  was disturbed by beeping sounds, uncomfortable in the hospital gown,  and alone with no one able to visit him. His recovery was much better  at home.

He was able to sleep in his own bed and visit with friends and  family. He also continued to receive the same level of care he would  have otherwise received at the hospital. His recovery at home was  rapid, complete, and without any infections.

Mr. Speaker, I represent one of the most rural districts in America.  The long drives to a hospital faced by people living in small towns in  remote areas can make seeking care prohibitive. Hospital at home  shrinks the physical distance stopping rural patients from getting  care. Hospital at home has been a proven success for getting more  Americans the healthcare that they need.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to approve  this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.