Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697186/improving-social-securitys-service-to-victims-of-identity-theft-act


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 5345) to amend title VII of the Social Security Act  to provide for a single point of contact at the Social Security  Administration for individuals who are victims of identity theft, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5345

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Improving Social Security's       Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act''.       SEC. 2. SINGLE POINT OF CONTACT FOR IDENTITY THEFT VICTIMS.

(a) In General.--Title VII of the Social Security Act (42       U.S.C. 901 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``SEC. 714. SINGLE POINT OF CONTACT FOR IDENTITY THEFT                     VICTIMS.

``(a) In General.--The Commissioner of Social Security       shall establish and implement procedures to ensure that any       individual whose social security account number has been       misused (such as to fraudulently obtain benefits under title       II, VIII, or XVI of this Act, or in a manner that affects an       individual's records at the Social Security Administration,       or in a manner that prompts the individual to request a new       social security account number) or whose Social Security card       has been lost in the course of transmission to the individual       has a single point of contact at the Social Security       Administration throughout the resolution of the individual's       case. The single point of contact shall track the       individual's case to completion and coordinate with other       units to resolve issues as quickly as possible.

``(b) Single Point of Contact.--

``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (a), the       single point of contact shall consist of a team or subset of       specially trained employees who--

``(A) have the ability to coordinate with other units to       resolve the issues involved in the individual's case, and

``(B) shall be accountable for the case until its       resolution.

``(2) Team or subset.--The employees included within the       team or subset described in paragraph (1) may change as       required to meet the needs of the Social Security       Administration, provided that procedures have been       established to--

``(A) ensure continuity of records and case history, and

``(B) notify the individual when appropriate.''.

(b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a)       shall take effect 180 days after the date of enactment of       this Act.

Mr. Speaker, in recent years, the theft and misuse of Social Security  numbers has become a very serious problem in our country. In 2024  alone, there were over 3,000 reported data breaches, and over half of  them included compromised Social Security numbers. For victims, the  fallout can be overwhelming.

Instead of finding clear guidance at the Social Security  Administration to deal with this stressful situation, too many folks  are bounced from one office to another. They receive conflicting  instructions and spend months trying to resolve what should be a  straightforward issue.

During a previous Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security  hearing, we heard directly from a mother about how a single point of  contact at the Social Security office would have been beneficial in  helping her deal with the fallout from her daughter's Social Security  number being compromised.

Protecting Americans from identity theft is not a partisan issue.  This bill provides a simple and commonsense fix to provide victims of  identity theft with a single point of contact at the Social Security  Administration when their number is lost or compromised.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman   David Kustoff for his leadership  on this bill. Thanks to his work, victims of identity theft whose  Social Security  numbers have been compromised will get the help that they so need.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for  time, and I am prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, identity theft has become a major issue in our country.  One of the main ways that bad actors exploit victims is through the  misuse of their Social Security number.

Unfortunately, when people contact the Social Security Administration  for help with a stolen or missing Social Security number, they are  often met with red tape, waiting for callbacks, confusion, and  conflicting information. Callers will get bounced around to multiple  SSA employees or have go through different processes just to get the  help that they need.

This bill sponsored by Representative Kustoff will make it easier for  Americans to resolve issues with stolen or missing Social Security  numbers by providing them with a single point of contact at the SSA.

I, once again, want to thank Representative Kustoff for his great  leadership on this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'', and I yield back  the balance of my time.