Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700032/law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2189, which includes the  Innovate Less Lethal to De-Escalate Tax Modernization Act, led by  Congressman   David Schweikert.

This legislation shines a bright light on how our laws actually work  in the real world, where outdated policy can get in the way of safer  outcomes. At the end of the day, this is about encouraging tools that  help de-escalate conflict and reduce the chances of serious injury or  loss of life.

Across the country, law enforcement officers are asked to resolve  dangerous situations every day with the least amount of harm as  possible. Less-than-lethal devices, like tasers and similar  technologies, exist for that exact purpose.

Right now, some of these tools are treated in the tax code like  traditional firearms. That means that they can face extra taxes and  regulatory burdens that were never designed with such tools in mind.  The result is higher costs, more red tape, and slower adoption of  technology that can actually make encounters safer for both officers  and civilians.

This bill fixes that mismatch. It makes clear that less-than-lethal  weapons, such as tasers, should not be taxed like firearms. It gives  clarity to manufacturers; certainty to regulators; and, ultimately,  better access to lifesaving tools for law enforcement and the  communities that they serve.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Schweikert for his incredible  leadership on this bill that keeps our laws on pace with real-world  solutions that reduce harm and protect our communities.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri.  Tenney).

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, you absolutely cannot make this  stuff up that you are hearing from the other side of the aisle. When  they talk about the affordability crisis, let's talk about the  affordability crisis.

Gas prices are the lowest they have been in 5 years. Inflation is the  lowest it has been in 4 years. Just in the first year of President  Trump, wages grew more than all 4 years under Joe Biden. We are in an  inflation crisis that President Trump inherited because of the spending  spree, the $10 trillion spending spree, that the Democrats did when  they controlled the White House, the House, and the Senate.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, based on the comments that we have been hearing from the  other side, it is proof that they didn't take the time to read the  seven-page bill that we are debating on the floor. That is because the  accusations and the comments you have heard, Mr. Speaker, are clearly  not identifiable of the legislation that is being debated.

This bill comes down to basic common sense. Our tax code should not  put unnecessary barriers in front of technologies designed to reduce  harm.

Representative Schweikert's legislation helps align our tax policy  with our public safety goals. It supports innovation, it encourages  less lethal means of law enforcement, and removes an outdated burden  that never made much sense to begin with.

When Congress has the chance to make a straightforward fix that can  contribute to safer communities and smarter policy, we should take it.

I commend Congressman Schweikert for his leadership, and I urge my  colleagues to support this bill. I congratulate the 22 brave Democrats  who believe in less lethal force by sponsoring this legislation. I just  wish there was more of that party.