National Taxpayer Advocate Enhancement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689378/national-taxpayer-advocate-enhancement-act-of-2025


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 997) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to  conform to the intent of the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and  Reform Act of 1998, as set forth in the joint explanatory statement of  the committee of conference accompanying Conference Report 105-599,  that the National Taxpayer Advocate be able to hire and consult counsel  as appropriate, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 997

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``National Taxpayer Advocate       Enhancement Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. AUTHORITY OF TAXPAYER ADVOCATE TO APPOINT COUNSEL.

(a) In General.--Section 7803(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986 is amended       by striking ``and'' at the end of subclause (I), by       redesignating subclause (II) as subclause (III), and by       inserting after subclause (I) the following new subclause:

``(II) appoint counsel in the Office of the Taxpayer       Advocate to report directly to the National Taxpayer       Advocate, or delegate thereof; and''.

(b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 7803(c)(2)(D)(i)(III) of       such Code, as redesignated by subsection (a), is amended by       striking ``any employee of any local office of a taxpayer       advocate described in subclause (I)'' and inserting ``any       employee of the Office of the Taxpayer Advocate''.

(c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall take effect as if included in the enactment of section       1102 of the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform       Act of 1998.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 997, the National  Taxpayer Advocate Enhancement Act, introduced by my Committee on Ways  and Means colleagues, Representatives Feenstra and Davis.

The National Taxpayer Advocate exists to promote and defend the  rights of American taxpayers. In order to achieve these goals, not only  should the advocate be independent from the IRS, but the staff  assisting the advocate should be as well.

Yet, right now, the attorneys hired to assist the National Taxpayer  Advocate report to IRS legal counsel, are accountable to IRS legal  counsel, and answer to IRS legal counsel, not the National Taxpayer  Advocate.

It is a situation that begs for conflicts of interest to occur. It  risks undermining the ability of the National Taxpayer Advocate to  trust that the legal advice that she receives is without any undue  influence from the IRS. It certainly undermines the ability of the  American taxpayer to have faith that the National Taxpayer Advocate's  service is adhering to its mission.

The National Taxpayer Advocate Enhancement Act gives the NTA the  authority to hire her own lawyers, who will report directly to her,  rather than be accountable to the IRS, the very agency whose behavior  the advocate exists to scrutinize and defend against.

The American people have a well-founded fear of the IRS given its  dismal track record of violating the rights of taxpayers. The very  least we can do is ensure that an entity that exists to fight on behalf  of taxpayers actually has a clearly defined and reinforced independence  from the IRS.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I imagine the American people  would be surprised and no doubt disappointed to learn that the very  organization whose mission it is to advocate on behalf of taxpayers  relies on legal advice provided by attorneys who are employed by, and  answer to, the IRS. It is a bizarre arrangement to be sure.

The National Taxpayer Advocate Enhancement Act will ensure that the  attorneys serving the NTA are hired by her and accountable to her. This  will also allow the Advocate's office to promote attorneys from within  that organization, helping to retain their talent, experience, and  expertise.

Mr. Speaker, the Ways and Means Committee approved this legislation  with unanimous consent, and I encourage my colleagues on both sides of  the aisle in the House to do the same.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.