Social Security Child Protection Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697263/social-security-child-protection-act-of-2025


Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 5348) to amend title II of the Social Security Act  to provide for the reissuance of social security account numbers to  young children in cases where confidentiality has been compromised, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5348

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Social Security Child       Protection Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REISSUANCE OF SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBERS TO                     YOUNG CHILDREN IN CASES WHERE CONFIDENTIALITY                     HAS BEEN COMPROMISED.

(a) In General.--Section 205(c)(2)(B) of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(c)(2)(B)) is amended--

(1) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); and

(2) by inserting after clause (ii) the following new       clause:

``(iii) In any case in which a social security account       number has been issued to a child who has not attained the       age of 14 pursuant to subclause (IV) or (V) of clause (i) and       it is demonstrated by evidence, as determined by the       Commissioner of Social Security, and submitted under penalty       of perjury to the Commissioner by a parent or guardian of the       child that in the course of transmission of a social security       card to the child, the confidentiality of such number has       been compromised by reason of loss or theft of such social       security card, the Commissioner shall issue a new social       security account number to such child and make note in the       records maintained with respect to such child of the       pertinent information received by the Commissioner regarding       the loss or theft of the social security card.''.

(b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a)       shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date       of the enactment of this Act.

Mr. Speaker, a lost or stolen Social Security number can cause a  lifetime of harm to American children. Every year, more than a million  children become victims of identity fraud.

Current Social Security Administration policy makes it extremely  difficult for families to get a new Social Security number for a child,  even when families know the original number was compromised through no  fault of their own.

Previously, the Ways and Means Committee heard direct testimony from  a mother who had to battle with the Social Security Administration when  her 1-month-old child's Social Security number was compromised, and she  was denied a new number.

This bill, the Social Security Child Protection Act of 2025,  sponsored by Representative Smucker, will help families when their  child's Social Security number is lost or stolen. It requires the SSA  to issue a new number to children under the age of 14 when the child's  card has been compromised versus sitting around and waiting for a  malicious act to take place.

This is a straightforward solution that will help protect children  and families from fraud.

I urge my colleagues to support this so we can continue to stand  together to better safeguard the identities of American kids.

A mother testifying before the Ways and Means Committee told us how  it took ``hours of effort over months'' to protect her daughter from  identity theft and that ``the threat will never completely go away  unless she is assigned a new Social Security number.''

This mother had to battle with the SSA after her infant daughter's  Social Security number was compromised. Unfortunately, the story is all  too common for millions of Americans who have had their Social Security  numbers stolen or misused each year.

By taking swift action today, we can prevent a lifetime of financial  harm to American children across the country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.