Collins, King Back Bipartisan Bill to Support, Assist Identity Theft Victims


U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Angus King (I-Maine) joined a bipartisan group of colleagues to introduce the Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act. The legislation would create a single point of contact at the Social Security Administration (SSA) for identity theft issues, cutting red tape and making it easier for victims to resolve their cases.

 

"Criminals will stop at nothing to steal Americans' hard-earned money.  As the Chairman of the Senate Aging Committee, combatting fraud has long been one of my top priorities," said Senator Collins.  "This bipartisan bill would eliminate the unnecessary barriers victims of identity theft often face when they are trying to get their case resolved."  

 

"Identity theft is devastating and all too common -- and when it happens, there should be a clear way for Americans to ask for help," said Senator King. "In the midst of a personal crisis like this, having one specific office assigned to work with the victim all the way through the process will cut red tape, make it easier for these disputes to be resolved, and help identity theft victims get their lives back on track."

 

Misuse of Social Security numbers is a large and growing problem, and identity theft victims face hurdles when trying to resolve issues with large, multi-office agencies such as the SSA. Currently, a victim may have to engage in multiple procedures with numerous representatives at SSA to resolve Social Security-related identity theft issues. The Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act requires the SSA to assign a single point of contact to resolve an identity theft victim's issues, aiming to make the process more efficient and less frustrating for victims.

 

The bipartisan legislation is endorsed by the AARP, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare (NCPSSM), Social Security Works, Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC), National Council of Social Security Management Associations (NCSSMA), and the National Organization of Social Security Claimants' Representatives (NOSSCR).

 

In addition to Senators Collins and King, the legislation is supported by the following U.S. Senators: Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Kyrsten Sinema (D-Ariz.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.), Bob Casey (D-Penn.), Mitt Romney (R-Utah), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.), Tom Carper (D-Del.), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).