King Connects with, Commends Maine County Teachers of the Year


Today, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine) participated in a video conference with the 16 educators who are being honored as Maine's 2020 County Teachers of the Year. During the call, Senator King congratulated the teachers for their commitment to educating Maine's young people -- particularly as the coronavirus pandemic has created unforeseen challenges for them, forcing students and teachers to adapt to distance learning technologies.

"Maine's 2020 County Teachers of the Year embody the very best of our state's educators: patience, perseverance, and persistence," said Senator King. "Even in the face of challenges like the coronavirus pandemic, these teachers continue to go above and beyond for the benefit of their students. In this "new normal', Maine teachers are continuing to show up for their communities, and our state is truly grateful for their continued dedication."

The 2020 Maine County Teacher of the Year honorees are:

·       Androscoggin -- Nicole Sautter, Lisbon School Department

·       Aroostook -- Jocelyn Saucier, Fort Kent Community High School

·       Cumberland -- Cindy Soule, Riverton Elementary School

·       Franklin -- Melissa Holsington, Kingfield Elementary School

·       Hancock -- Kathryn Meyer, Mount Desert Island High School

·       Kennebec -- Lindsay Mahoney, Messalonskee Middle School

·       Knox -- Alison Babb-Brott, St. George School

·       Lincoln -- Heather Webster, Medomak Valley High School

·       Oxford -- Tonya Prentice, Woodstock Elementary School

·       Penobscot -- Kristy Dube, Fourteenth Street School

·       Piscataquis -- Jessica Gregory, Piscataquis Community Secondary School

·       Sagadahoc -- Bree Candland, Mt. Ararat High School

·       Somerset -- Jenny France, Somerset Career and Technical Center

·       Waldo -- Sara Pendleton, Captain Albert W. Stevens School

·       Washington -- Debra Carver, Jonesport Elementary School

·       York -- Robert Westerberg, York High School

Throughout the pandemic, Senator King has engaged with Maine people from all walks of life and helpful organizations to address questions surrounding the coronavirus pandemic and identify remaining work to be done. Since the Senate passed the CARES Act, he has participated in teleconferences and phone calls with:

·       Maine educators, including Maine Jump$tart Coalition's two Finance Educators of the Year and civics and history teachers from schools across Maine.

·       Maine business leaders, including members of the Maine State Chamber of Commerce, Penobscot Bay Regional Chamber of Commerce, the New England Council, 120 of Portland's small business owners and 500 Maine employees of Sun Life.

·       Maine nonprofits including the Maine Association of Nonprofits (MANP) and YMCA Youth Advocates from Maine.

·       Maine healthcare advocates, such as Protect our Care.

·       Maine seniors in a call hosted by AARP Maine

·       Maine democracy-focused organizations, such as the Maine League of Women Voters.