King Updates New England Council Members on Ongoing Coronavirus Response Efforts


Today, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine) participated in a video call with New England Council (NEC) President and CEO James Brett and 150 NEC members. During the call, Senator King provided updates on federal coronavirus response efforts, took questions from the members, and discussed priorities that he would like to see in future coronavirus relief legislation, such as: substantial and additional aid to help state and local governments endure the economic impacts of the pandemic, funding for the U.S. Postal Service, and the importance of cybersecurity as the nation increases reliance upon distance learning, work from home, and telehealth.

"The best way to stay safe during the coronavirus pandemic is by social distancing at every possible opportunity and following the data, but that doesn't mean we can or should tackle these massive challenges alone," said Senator King. "Today's conversation with the NEC was uplifting and productive, and I'm grateful for each member and their contributions to their communities. We are all facing unprecedented challenges, but we are tough, resilient, and smart -- we will get through this together."                        

"Senator King has been a tremendous advocate, not just for Maine but the entire New England region, as we have grappled with the devastating effects of this virus on our communities and our economy," said James T. Brett, President & CEO of the New England Council. "It was incredibly helpful for our members to have the opportunity to hear from the Senator about the latest developments on Capitol Hill as he and his colleagues work to advance legislation that will help our nation overcome this virus and reinvigorate our economy."

Throughout the pandemic, Senator King has engaged with Maine people from all walks of life and helpful organizations to address questions surrounding the coronavirus pandemic and identify remaining work to be done. Since the Senate passed the CARES Act, he has participated in teleconferences and phone calls with:

·       Maine nonprofits including the Maine Association of Nonprofits (MANP) and YMCA Youth Advocates from Maine.

·       Maine healthcare advocates, such as Protect our Care.

·       Maine educators, including Maine Jump$tart Coalition's two Finance Educators of the Year and civics and history teachers from schools across Maine.

·       Maine business leaders, including members of the Maine State Chamber of Commerce, Penobscot Bay Regional Chamber of Commerce, and 500 Maine employees of Sun Life.

·       Maine seniors in a call hosted by AARP Maine

·       Maine democracy-focused organizations, such as the Maine League of Women Voters.