King Urges FCC To Ensure Rural Tribal Communities Have Equal Internet Access


U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine), co-chair of the Senate Broadband Caucus, joined 17 senators on a letter calling on Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai to request that the FCC extend the 2.5 GHz Rural Tribal Priority Window by 180 days, given the challenges and delays associated with the coronavirus. Extending this deadline would allow Tribal governments additional time to secure access to unassigned spectrum over tribal lands suitable for both mobile coverage and broadband services as Native American communities continue to be ravaged by the impacts of the pandemic. 

There is a disproportionate impact that the coronavirus pandemic has had in Native American communities; the need for broadband and other wireless services could not be more apparent. Because Tribes have historically lacked access to spectrum to deploy broadband networks on tribal lands, 1.5 million people living in these communities have been left without basic access to healthcare, public safety, and educational services. "As the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the U.S. continues to rise and more and more Americans are told to stay home, the true extent of the crisis is becoming more apparent daily," wrote the senators. "For most Americans, the immediate focus is on the health and safety of our families, our neighbors, and the nation as a whole. To that end, we are pleased to see that the FCC has extended the time for the public to prepare for and participate in some of its upcoming auctions, such as the 3.5 GHz band and the FM broadcast service. This will help ensure that the public has adequate time to participate as we get through this crisis." 

"These same challenges are also impacting the ability of Tribal governments to participate in FCC proceedings. Additionally, rural tribal communities represent some of the least connected people in AmericaAs you know, this spectrum can deliver significant benefits to rural tribal communities," the senators continued. "Tribal governments should not be precluded from having an opportunity to apply for spectrum as a result of this public health emergency. An extension of the 2.5 GHz priority window will help ensure that tribes have adequate time to make the most of this first-of-its-kind opportunity. Accordingly, we urge the FCC to extend the Rural Tribal Priority Window by 180 days and commit to ensuring every rural tribal community has an equitable opportunity to receive spectrum licenses."

During his time in the Senate, Senator King has been a strong advocate for expanding broadband access as a way to increase connectivity in rural Maine -- and has raised the issue consistently during the coronavirus pandemic. Earlier this month, Senator King joined a bipartisan group of senators to urged Congressional leadership to include $2 billion in the next coronavirus relief package to help healthcare providers expand telehealth services through improved access to broadband. In April, he joined 35 senators in a letter urging the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to increase reimbursements for telephone-based, or audio-only, telehealth services to equal other audio-visual telehealth and in-person visitation reimbursements.

At the beginning of March, Senator King sent a letter to the CEOs of eight major internet service providers (ISPs), calling on the companies to take steps to accommodate the unprecedented reliance on telepresence services, including telework, online education, telehealth, and remote support services; in response to Senator King's letter, several major ISPs took action to better support these remote technologies. The letter was also signed by Senator Martin Heinrich (D-N.M), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Edward Markey (D-Mass.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), and Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii).