King Speaks with Portland Independent Business Owners, Answers Questions on Coronavirus Response


Today, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine) participated in a teleconference with Portland Buy Local to take questions from business leaders on the tools available to help the state's business community in the face of the coronavirus pandemic. Portland Buy Local Executive Director Mary Alice Scott moderated the conversation, and 120 Portland small business owners participated. 

"The economic impacts of the coronavirus pandemic are hitting small businesses hard, and we need to use every tool at our disposal to make sure these vital contributors to Maine communities are able to make it through this crisis," said Senator King. "I'm grateful to Portland Buy Local and their members for today's conversation, which underscores the importance of taking action to support our state's business community. As this crisis continues, I will keep pushing to support Maine small businesses at every possible opportunity."

"We were very pleased to have the opportunity to speak with Senator King today and have him respond to some of the questions we've been hearing from local businesses, particularly about implementation issues with the PPP and long-term commercial rent support," said Mary Alice Scott, Executive Director of Portland Buy Local. "Local businesses are the backbone of Maine's communities, we appreciate him taking the time to address their concerns."

Throughout the pandemic, Senator King has engaged with Maine people from all walks of life and helpful organizations to address questions surrounding the coronavirus pandemic and identify remaining work to be done. Since the Senate passed the CARES Act, he has participated in teleconferences and phone calls with:

-Maine business leaders, including members of the Maine State Chamber of Commerce, Penobscot Bay Regional Chamber of Commerce, the New England Council, and 500 Maine employees of Sun Life.-Maine nonprofits including the Maine Association of Nonprofits (MANP) and YMCA Youth Advocates from Maine.-Maine healthcare advocates, such as Protect our Care.-Maine educators, including Maine Jump$tart Coalition's two Finance Educators of the Year and civics and history teachers from schools across Maine.-Maine seniors in a call hosted by AARP Maine-Maine democracy-focused organizations, such as the Maine League of Women Voters.