Letter to Wilbur Ross, Secretary of Commerce - King, Pingree, Golden Urge Department of Commerce to Aid Fisheries Quickly Through CARES Act Funding


Dear Secretary Ross:

We write with respect to the Department of Commerce's efforts to implement the Assistance to FisheryParticipants section in PL 16-136, the CARES Act. Like nearly every other sector of our nation'seconomy, the seafood industry is reeling from the shocks to supply, demand, and labor that thecoronavirus pandemic has dealt to our collective prosperity and way of life. Perhaps to a higher degreethan other businesses, those who make their livelihoods harvesting the bounty of our oceans, engaging inaquaculture, and enabling the supply chains that process and move fresh product from remote islands inMaine to far corners of the globe have incredibly complex and unique business models. As such, we areenthusiastic about this section of the relief legislation that targets both the iconic and bedrock elements ofour state's economy and the value-added enterprises that link them to consumers.

We are grateful for this opportunity to offer some advice on how we believe the $300 million of fisheryrelated assistance can most productively and expeditiously reach those who need it to get through this period of upheaval and soon return to and prosper in their respective enterprises. Because the NationalMarine Fisheries Service (NMFS) at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is well-versedin the evaluation of fisheries disasters under the Magnuson Stevens Act and the InterjurisdictionalFisheries Act, and as the agency has competency in allocating and distributing related relief funds, weencourage--to the greatest extent possible--the use of existing data, analytics, and procedures to get thisrelief out the door. Due to the unprecedented nature of the current situation, we have some specificrequests and advice; they are as follows:

1. We encourage NMFS to work with regional fisheries management commissions to distribute thefunds to the various costal states with eligible stakeholders--including fishery-related businessesthat have not typically been evaluated in past fisheries disaster relief measures.2. While there must be meaningful bounds on the use of these taxpayer dollars, we believe it iscritical for each state to have reasonable latitude to distribute money in the ways that will do themost good for the unique challenges present in their jurisdiction.3. With respect to how the total amount will be allocated between states, we urge NMFS to usecomparative methods and averages that span multiple years--as is common with other fisheriesdisaster calculations. For example, relying upon comparative ex-vessel revenue losses for the early part of this year would not appropriately reflect seasonal fishery, supply chain, oraquaculture business losses.4. Because the onset of this catastrophe was so sudden and the need is immediate, we ask the NMFScontinue to move quickly to get money out to the states, and that accountability be achieved witha requirement that each state submit a spend plan back to the agency for approval prior todistribution to businesses and harvesters.Thank you for your attention to our input on this component of the relief effort to stabilize andrecover the American economy. Please provide our staff with regular updates on NMFS's plans andtimeline for implementation as well as any problems that may be encountered.Sincerely,