Letter to the Hon. Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and  the Hon. Charles Schumer, Senate Minority Leader - King Outlines Need for Substantial Aid to States and Localities in Letter to Senate Leaders


Dear Leader McConnell and Leader Schumer:

Yesterday, I wrote to you regarding the economic policies that I encourage you to include in the next coronavirus relief bill.  While each of those policies is critical to the recovery of Maine and of our Nation, I write to highlight my request for $500 billion in aid to states and $50 billion in Community Development Block Grant Disaster Relief ("CDBG-DR") funding for localities.  As a former governor, I know that our very economic future depends upon the ability of states, cities, and towns to provide robust assistance for their citizens today and into the future.

As I wrote yesterday, we must provide states with substantial, additional aid to combat the pandemic and its economic effects.  States services -- from hospital resources, to nutrition programs, to provision of PPE for first responders -- are under tremendous strain.  At the same time, state revenues have plummeted due to rapidly declining commerce, leaving states with the intolerable choice of raising taxes or cutting services.  States should not need to choose either of these alternatives, so I urge you to accept the recommendation of the National Governor's Association and include $500 billion for states -- ideally by including the Cassidy-Menendez SMART Fund -- in the next coronavirus relief bill.  I also ask you to empower the states to conduct economic development using some of the federal aid they receive so that commerce resumes fully and quickly when the pandemic abates.

In addition to direct funding for states, our cities, towns, and the EMTs, firefighters, and social service providers they employ also need our help.  The coronavirus pandemic has stretched crisis response resources thin in many localities.  To ensure that crisis responders have the funds, PPE, food, blankets, and other items they need to help our most vulnerable neighbors, I ask that you include $50 billion for the CDBG-DR program in the next coronavirus relief bill.

With robust aid from the federal government today, states and localities can continue to provide vital services and position our businesses for a rapid, strong recovery.  Without it, the fabric of our society will fray as towns make tough choices on cutting firefighters and teachers, ambulances with reduced crews hit potholed roads, and citizens go hungry.  Thank you for your consideration of this critical request.