Letter to the Hon. Lisa Murowski and Joe Manchin - King Pushes Energy Committee Leadership for Clean Energy Advancements to Address Climate Change


Dear Chairman Murkowski and Ranking Member Manchin:

As you know, I am proud of the great work the Energy and Natural Resources Committee has done in considering and reporting out many pieces of energy legislation in the 116th Congress that I believe can truly set our country on the right course to reduce carbon emissions and address the challenge of climate change. I commend you both for your dedication to leading a productive and effective committee process.

Maine is a state that relies heavily on its natural resources for our economic wellbeing, but they also define, for many Maine people, our lifestyle and sense of place. As a potential energy legislative package comes together, I write to highlight my support of specific legislative proposals that have come before the Energy Committee that I see as priorities in a clean energy future for Maine and the country that will help preserve our important resources. I believe these policies will reduce carbon emissions from the United States and the world. But many of these bills won't just reduce carbon emissions, they'll also promote American competitiveness and position the U.S. as a world leader in clean energy technology developments. I ask that you include the following legislative priorities in the Committee's energy package.

Clean energy research, development and deployment (RD&D): With major climate shifts already affecting Maine's fisheries and outdoor recreation opportunities, innovative clean energy technologies like solar, on and offshore wind, and electric vehicles will be paramount. With a greater focus on RD&D investment, we can get back on par with our global counterparts and be leaders in the technologies to reduce our carbon emissions. I support legislation including the Solar Energy R&D Act (S. 2668), the Wind Energy R&D Act (S. 2660), the Marine Energy R&D Act (S. 1821), the Vehicle Innovation Act (S. 1085), the EFFECT Act (S. 1201), and the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy Reauthorization Act (S. 2714).

Energy storage: By pairing solar and wind with storage, we'll be able to unlock the full potential of renewable energy, as well as increase the reliability of our electric grid, reduce our carbon footprint, and improve our national security. I support the BEST Act (S. 1602), which along with my Joint Long-Term Storage Act (S. 2048), supports investment, research, and commercialization of long-duration energy storage technologies.

Energy efficiency: As we all know, the cheapest kilowatt is the one we never use. Increasing efficiency across all sectors will be key to meeting the world's growing energy demands. I support the Energy Savings and Industrial Competitiveness Act (S. 2137) which will push the federal government to lead the efficiency movement, as well as a number of other efficiency bills we passed out of Committee last year including my Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Support Act (S. 2425). The CHP Act will support businesses that want to invest in energy efficiency technology through comprehensive technical assistance programming.

Critical mineral recycling: As we discussed a number of times in the Committee last year, we must also focus on recycling and reprocessing items like batteries which hold precious critical minerals required to meet the growing demand of solar panels, wind turbines, and electric vehicles. I will be introducing a bill this week to address the lack of domestic policy, markets, and infrastructure regarding the coordinated recycling and reuse of electrochemical batteries--like lithium ion batteries--needed to support a U.S.-based supply chain that would provide a secure and ethically sourced stream of critical minerals to help meet our growing needs.

Thank you for your consideration of my requests. I truly believe that with this Committee's efforts, Congress can enact meaningful legislation that can turn the tide on carbon emissions.