Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture - Senator Collins Calls for Direct Relief for Maine Potato Growers Amid COVID-19 Letter also offers recommendations to address supply chain backlog


Dear Secretary Perdue,I am writing to echo the concerns and questions raised by representatives of the U.S.Potato industry, including the Maine Potato Board, who are facing an unprecedented crisis due toCOVID-19. The groups have put forth productive recommendations in regards to the USDA'sCoronavirus Food Assistance Program (CFAP) that warrant your full consideration. I am alsorequesting your assistance in helping to identify or make available USDA programs to helppotato growers with the safe disposal of surplus crop.As detailed in the attached letter, over 1.5 billion pounds of fresh potatoes are currentlystuck in the supply chain due to the widespread closure of restaurants, food establishments,hospitality businesses, and schools, as well as the cancellation of large events such as concertsand fairs. While the impact to Maine's potato industry changes daily, it is estimated that morethan 1,500,000 hundredweight (cwt) of potatoes from the 2019 crop may not be sold, whichrepresents over 10 percent of the total Maine 2019 crop and is valued at over $15 million.Furthermore, this backlog in the 2019 crop caused by the pandemic could result in growersseeing as much as a 10 to 20 percent reduction in their planting contracts for the 2020 plantingseason.In years past, the Environmental Quality Incentives Program run by USDA's NaturalResources Conservation Service has helped Maine potato growers properly dispose of excesssupply. If not adequately addressed, spoiled potatoes pose serious phytosanitary risks andenvironmental risks and have the potential to spawn fungal outbreaks that can harm future cropgrowth. We must ensure that the plight of the potato industry is not made worse by growers'inability to appropriately dispose of the crop that was unable to be sold through no fault of theirown. To that end, I urge you to provide immediate technical and financial assistance to theindustry and, if adequate funding is not currently available for disposal services, to offerguidance on the level of funding that might be necessary to implement these critical activities.It is my understanding that when USDA attempted to quantify the negative effects of thepandemic on potato sales, the Department did so by analyzing retail and grocery sales, ratherthan those in the food service sector -- where the impact has been felt most acutely. In Maine, 40percent of our annual potato crop is comprised of processed potatoes grown expressly for use within the food service industry. I strongly urge USDA to rectify this methodology to ensure thatpotatoes are fully eligible and the minimum payment levels in each category are meaningful forgrowers.I am hopeful that the USDA will work closely with the U.S. potato industry to managetheir backlog and to make certain that adequate direct relief is extended to producers. I standready to work with you toward these goals and to address their urgent disposal needs. Thank youfor your time and effort on behalf of the potato industry in Maine and across the country.