National Police Week


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, each day, our peace officers prepare for  work with no guarantee of what the next shift holds. They say goodbye  to their loved ones and head out to serve and protect communities  throughout Maine and across the country. And unfortunately, on some  devastating days, they don't come home. These selfless citizens put  themselves in dangerous positions day in and day out to ensure the  safety of our people it is a commitment that evokes awe. They are  heroes, walking among us, and when they make the ultimate sacrifice, it  is on us to ensure that their names and deeds are not forgotten. 

  So today, I rise to honor those who have made that sacrifice. This  week, we mark National Police Week. This year's observance is,  obviously, a bit different than usual. There will be no gathering peace  officers from all over the country come to Washington, DC, to honor  their fallen brothers and sisters; there will be no in-person  candlelight vigil. But though the events are different, the goal is the  same: to honor the memory of those who have given so much to protect  our communities. 

  This pandemic will not change our dedication to mourn their loss and  honor their service, and this year, we will add 307 names of those who  lost their lives in the line of duty to the National Law Enforcement  Officers Memorial, including two peace officers from my home State of  Maine. I want to take this opportunity to share a little more about the  legacies these peace officers leave behind. 

  First: Detective Benjamin James Campbell of the Maine State Police  died in the line of duty on April 3, 2019. Detective Campbell was  helping a disabled vehicle in Hampden, ME, when he was struck by a  vehicle tire. He was just 31 years old and leaves behind a wife and  young son. He served the Maine State Police since 2012 and was promoted  to detective in 2017. 

  When asked to describe Detective Campbell, Maine State Police Col.  John Cote put it simply and strongly, he said Detective Campbell was  ``one of our very best.'' One of our very best--that tells you all you  need to know about how his colleagues felt about him--an officer who  stopped to help someone, a caring man, and a life taken much too soon. 

  Second, the memorial will include the name of Perley Morrison  Sprague, chief of the Rockport Police Department. Sadly, Chief Sprague  suffered a major cardiac event on November 15, 1996, and died as a  result. A son of Maine, Chief Sprague embodied a life of service. He  was born in Bangor in 1948. He was a Coast Guard veteran, serving in  Vietnam, and held numerous public safety positions in Maine, including  as a member of the Portland Police Department and the Maine Department  of Marine Resources, where he served for 21 years and worked his way up  to chief of the bureau of the marine patrol. In 1995, he accepted his  final position as the Rockport chief of police. Once at Rockport, he  was described as a man with new ideas and visions for hiring and  training. He lived a life of service, and Maine will never forget him. 

  As we mourn the loss of these heroes, we must do our part to lift up  the loved ones and communities they have left behind. May God bless  Detective Campbell, Chief Sprague, and the others around the country  who lost their lives. And may God continue to watch over those peace  officers who go to work, with no guarantee they will return. They are  examples for us all, and Maine will never forget them.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT