On Tele-Town Hall, King Discusses Federal Coronavirus Response with Maine People


Today, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine) hosted a tele-town hall and took questions from Maine people on the federal government's response to the coronavirus pandemic. During the event, Senator King emphasized the importance of supporting America's public health by establishing a strong testing and contact tracing system, highlighted the need to bring the virus under control in order to facilitate vital economic activity, advocated for broadband infrastructure for Maine and the nation, and renewed his push to provide support for state and local governments to ensure there is no lapse in vital services during this crucial time. The call was hosted on a toll-free line and was open to anyone in Maine; it lasted for an hour, until Senator King was required to cast a vote on the Senate floor.

"The people of Maine have put their faith in me to represent their voice in Washington -- and to do that, it's critical that I listen to their concerns and share my own thinking," said Senator King. "Today's call is a reminder that, even though we are staying apart now, we are still in this fight together. I'm grateful to all who joined today's call, and for all those who are responding to this crisis with poise, kindness, and dedication to supporting our communities. We will get through this together, and come out the other side stronger and closer than ever."

Throughout the pandemic, Senator King has engaged with Maine people from all walks of life and helpful organizations to address questions surrounding the coronavirus pandemic and identify remaining work to be done. Since the Senate passed the CARES Act, he has participated in teleconferences and phone calls with:

·       Maine educators, including the 16 Maine 2020 County Teachers of the Year, Maine Jump$tart Coalition's two Finance Educators of the Year and civics and history teachers from schools across Maine.

·       Maine business leaders, including members of the Maine State Chamber of Commerce, Penobscot Bay Regional Chamber of Commerce, the New England Council, 120 of Portland's small business owners and 500 Maine employees of Sun Life.

·       Maine nonprofits including the Maine Association of Nonprofits (MANP) and YMCA Youth Advocates from Maine.

·       Maine healthcare advocates, such as Protect our Care.

·       Maine seniors in a call hosted by AARP Maine

·       Maine democracy-focused organizations, such as the Maine League of Women Voters.