Via Teleconference, King Highlights Role that Maine Nonprofits Play in Supporting Communities, State Economy


This morning, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-Maine) joined the Maine Association of Nonprofits (MANP) for a teleconference discussing the significant role that Maine's nonprofits are playing in the coronavirus response in communities across Maine, and the challenges these organizations are facing due to the pandemic. During the call, Senator King discussed the importance of including funding for nonprofits in future Congressional relief packages, and highlighted the best ways Maine people can advocate for these funds in future negotiations.

"In the face of extreme uncertainty, nonprofit organizations across Maine are stepping up to address the challenges posed by both the coronavirus pandemic and the economic harm it's bringing," said Senator King. "Whether it's helping get food to families in need, or addressing the crisis's impact on mental health, or making sure our most vulnerable citizens are cared for, these nonprofits are answering the call of duty -- but even as their services are needed more than ever, the economic climate is drastically reducing donations to nonprofits. Losing these groups would be a gut punch to our communities and our economy -- that's why Congress must support our nonprofits in the next coronavirus relief package."

"Senator King is a champion to Maine's nonprofit sector, which employs more Mainers than key state industries like construction, fishing or agriculture," said Jennifer Hutchins, Executive Director, Maine Association of Nonprofits. "We're thankful he is urging his colleagues in the Senate to support our work. His leadership is exactly what nonprofits need in Washington."

Throughout the pandemic, Senator King has engaged with Maine people from all walks of life and helpful organizations to address questions surrounding the coronavirus pandemic and identify remaining work to be done. Since the Senate passed the CARES Act, he participated in a video teleconference with YMCA Youth Advocates from Maine and across the nation to discuss the Senate's efforts to support youth and nonprofits amid the coronavirus pandemic, participated in a tele-town hall hosted by the Maine League of Women Voters to discuss the importance of proactively preparing to adjust electoral processes, he has also taken part in a telephone press conference to highlight the unique coronavirus-related strains on the rural healthcare system, participated in a virtual listening session with members of the Penobscot Bay Regional Chamber of Commerce, joined a video conference call with civics and history teachers from schools across Maine, connected with members of the Maine State Chamber of Commerce, highlighted resources available for Maine seniors in a call hosted by AARP Maine, and spoke to 500 Maine employees of Sun Life.