Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Madam Speaker, I am going to reserve what I am going  to say about Chairman Cole until the end, but I thank the ranking  member of the full committee, Congresswoman DeLauro, and the  subcommittee ranking member, Congresswoman Frankel, for their work on  this bill.

Madam Speaker, this full-year funding really refocuses our Nation's  foreign policy in historic ways. It focuses on the United States'  national security, but it does so while also restoring fiscal sanity.  In the foreign policy arena, it actually reduces spending by 16  percent. Within those really historic reductions, the bill does more to  counter our adversaries like China and Iran, the cartels in our  hemisphere, and support our allies and friends. It does a lot more  while spending a lot less money.

Madam Speaker, the bill increases funding to counter fentanyl. It  increases support for religious freedom and to address religious  persecution around the planet. It maintains our longstanding pro-life  provisions, and this bill removes controversial funding directives like  the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change. It makes double-digit  reductions to the U.N. funding. More importantly, or equally as  important, it gives the Secretary of State the tools and leverage to  demand much-needed reforms.

These are historic changes, and this approach, again, protects  American taxpayers but also the national security interests of the  United States.

Madam Speaker, we would not be here debating this if it wasn't for  the brilliant, persistent leadership of the full committee chairman. A  lot of folks said that we would never get here and that we would end up  with another long-term CR, which would have been so detrimental to our  country, but I will tell you that it was   Tom Cole--yes, with his  partners--but   Tom Cole who brought us this far, who is going to  actually get these bills passed and sent to the President for his  signature.

Madam Speaker, the country owes Chairman Cole a debt of gratitude.