Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, as chairman of the National Security,  Department of State, and Related Programs Subcommittee, I rise in  strong support for H.R. 7006.

This full-year funding bill really carries out our Nation's foreign  policy in a historic way in so many different aspects. First and  foremost, the bill restores fiscal sanity by reducing spending by 16  percent, which is nearly a $10 billion cut, in recognition of the  President's and the Secretary of State's effort to make the Department  of State, frankly, more efficient, streamlined, and responsive to the  national security priorities.

Within these really, I think, dramatic but necessary reductions, the  bill will make sure that the Secretary has the resources that he needs  to counter our adversaries--adversaries like China, Iran, cartels in  our hemisphere, and the regime of Cuba in our hemisphere.

This bill takes serious steps toward confronting, for example, the  regime in Cuba and includes limitations on funding for countries and  organizations that participate in the human trafficking of Cuban  medical professionals while directing the Secretary of State to revoke  visas for officials of countries involved in this grotesque human  trafficking.

Mr. Chairman, a smart foreign policy doesn't just require opposing  our enemies, although that is a big part of it. It means supporting and  standing with our allies, with our friends, who can be a force  multiplier in our national security interests.

That is why this bill acknowledges our friends and provides robust  assistance for allies, partners like Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Taiwan, and  the Philippines, to name a few.

Mr. Chairman, for too long, we have ignored our hemisphere, our  neighbors in our own region. This bill changes that and provides  special emphasis to key partners in the Western Hemisphere who are  aligned with our values and our policies, such as Costa Rica, Panama,  Paraguay, Argentina, and the Dominican Republic.

This bill increases funding for counter-fentanyl and synthetic drug  programs to stop these deadly poisons from crossing our borders and  coming to the United States.

It puts American businesses first, prioritizing diplomatic engagement  to favorably resolve commercial disputes, disputes abroad, some of them  that have been going on for years, to promote American business and  American interests overseas.

This bill also makes sure that we are spending money according to our  American values.

It increases support for religious freedom and addresses religious  persecution.

The bill also maintains longstanding pro-life provisions and enhances  oversight and transparency over those requirements.

It protects free speech and prohibits censorship or disinformation  and misinformation programs that violate the right of American  citizens.

The bill makes double-digit cuts to U.N. funding and gives the  Secretary of State the tools and the leverage to demand much-needed  reforms there.

These are historic changes in our approach that the American people  have been demanding for decades, Mr. Chairman.

The fiscal year 2026 bill removes controversial funding directives  from the CR, like the U.N. climate funds and others.

Throughout this process, the goal is to be good stewards of American  taxpayer money, to represent our constituents' priorities within this  financial funding and, above all, protect the national security of the  United States.

Now, this bill would not be here without the help of so many others  in this body. I have got to start with the remarkable leadership of  Chairman   Tom Cole. We wouldn't be here discussing this if it wasn't  for him and his partner on the other side of the aisle, and I am so  grateful for their leadership and recommendations. Every single member  has made this bill so much better. It has shaped this bill, and I am  grateful for the contributions. I do need to thank again my dear  friend--and we have had some tough issues--the ranking member, Lois  Frankel, who has been an amazing partner in putting this bill together,  and, by the way, Chairman Brian Mast, another Floridian, who has been  incredibly helpful. I also thank my staff, the amazing staff. This bill  never would have happened without them; my clerk, Susan Adams, and the  entire majority team, as well as the minority staff.

We have no greater duty to the American people than to protect the  security of our country while safeguarding tax dollars.

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. This bill does that. It protects our national  security. It protects the hard-earned tax dollars of every American who  pays taxes. This bill plays an integral part in the noble endeavor.

Mr. Chair, for that reason, I urge my colleagues to support this  measure.

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, before anything else, I will tell you  what I have told Mr. Crane privately. I will say it publicly. I revere  his service to the country. We must always thank those who served, and  he served honorably.

On this amendment, the bill that we are debating right now  substantially reduces spending, while strengthening our national  security.

Part of the strategy is to ensure that the most effective tools to  achieve this objective are strong and ready to deliver, including the  National Endowment for Democracy. Now, remember, NED was a brilliant  initiative from President Ronald Reagan to fight communism and enemies  abroad, and it succeeded, strengthening democracy forces from within  and helping to get rid of the Berlin Wall.

Today, the adversaries of the United States are still there, and they  threaten democracy and freedom all over the world. NED, just as  envisioned by President Reagan, is needed once again on the forefront  of fighting the enemies of the United States.

NED and democracy programs have been supporting those struggling for  freedom in the most repressive places in the world. In Iran, China,  Cuba, and Venezuela, the people are hitting the streets, and NED is  there with them. Those who are anti-American tyrannies are where NED is  effective, and that is where we need them now the most.

At this critical time, America cannot turn its back to those who are  courageously fighting, advocating for freedom around the world. There  is nothing better for our long-term national security than democratic  transitions within those anti-American dangerous regimes around the  globe, and NED is a pivotal part of that, which is why, with great  admiration and respect to the sponsor of this amendment, I must ask for  a ``no'' vote.