Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696559/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-venezuela-that-have-not-been-authorized-by-congress


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, today, I want to recognize the leadership  of Manuel Heart, who retires tomorrow after 15 years as chairman of the  Ute Mountain Ute Tribe and 27 years on Tribal Council.

For time immemorial, the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe has called the vast  landscape of the Southwest home--the mountains, canyons, and rivers  that have sustained the Weenuche people for countless generations.

Chairman Heart carried this legacy of stewardship throughout his  career. As a young council member, he began a lifetime of service  rooted in a deep love for his people and a reverence for their  ancestral homeland. Over the decades, he grew into a statesman whose  leadership reached far beyond Towaoc, inspiring both Tribal and non- Tribal leaders alike all across this Nation.

As chairman, he helped establish Bears Ears and Camp Hale National  Monuments, elevated Tribal voices in the Colorado River Basin, and  advocated for the protection of the Dolores River.

After generations of the unjust loss of their ancestral homelands,  Chairman Heart led the efforts to secure full Federal trust status for  the Tribe's Pinecrest Ranch, reclaiming a piece--a piece--of what was  taken.

It has been a privilege to work alongside him, meeting in Towaoc and  across the ancestral homeland of the Ute people, rafting the Colorado  River to discuss water and climate policy, visiting cultural sites in  the Dolores River Basin, and gathering along the Continental Divide to  discuss how Camp Hale should tell the Ute story.

He regularly visited my office in Washington, DC. In 2021, I was  proud to stand together at the White House to celebrate the restoration  of the Bears Ears National Monument. When we introduced the Tribal  Access to Clean Water Act, the chairman testified before the Senate  Committee on Indian Affairs to remind Congress of the Federal  Government's responsibility to ensure all of Indian Country has access  to clean, reliable drinking water.

Chairman Heart also understood that the strength of a sovereign  Tribal nation lies in the preservation and vitality of culture and  language for future generations. He led the effort to create the  Kwiyagat Community Academy, dedicated to teaching Ute history,  language, and culture. Visiting the school with him was a profound  reminder of his vision and dedication to his people and their cultural  heritage.

Chairman Heart never let the United States forget its promises to  Tribal nations and made sure that my office always included the voices  of sovereign Tribes when we made decisions. He taught me what true  government-to-government respect means. I remain deeply grateful for  his friendship, his wisdom, and his example--for his brotherhood. His  legacy reminds us that true leadership is measured not only in  achievements but in the strength and hope it instills in generations to  come.

Colorado and the United States owe Chairman Heart a profound  gratitude for his decades of service. We also thank Marie, his wife,  and their entire family.

Working with him has been one of the greatest honors of my life and  of my time in the Senate, and I wish him well in his retirement as he  enjoys well-deserved time with his loved ones.