Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I want to thank the Senator from Maryland  for his wise words. I was glad to be here for the end of his remarks  because he is right about this moment that we are facing.

Donald Trump has painted himself as the peace President since 2016,  promising that ``we will stop racing to topple foreign regimes that we  know nothing about.''

In 2024, he said that ``I'm not going to start wars, I'm going to  stop wars.''

One year into Donald Trump's second term, we know how false those  promises were. Just in the last 12 months, President Trump has ordered  military action against seven countries, blown up alleged drug boats in  the Caribbean without any authorization, deployed Federal troops to at  least 10 cities in the United States of America, all without  congressional authorization.

Now, he has bombed and invaded Venezuela to capture its dictator,  Nicolas Maduro. I have said over and over and over again, for years,  how illegitimate Maduro was as President of Venezuela, and that is not  up for debate.

And by the way, it is also not up for debate what an excellent job  the U.S. military did in its effort to get him out of there. It was  extraordinary to learn exactly what they went through to get there.  They did their job. They did their job. They did it excellently.

And now Congress has the responsibility to do our job here. As we  meet here today, President Trump is blockading Venezuela's ports from  exporting oil while threatening to collapse their economy and also to  threaten future military strikes against the country if they don't  comply with his will.

Despite what the President claimed on the campaign trail, war and  threats of future wars with Colombia, with Cuba, with Mexico, and even  our NATO ally Denmark, when it comes to Greenland, are now animating  features of his foreign policy.

The President's team claims their operation to oust Maduro was a  ``law enforcement'' operation about drugs. That is the legal pretext  for the action that they have led, but Maduro is now in jail in New  York City and 15,000 U.S. troops and an American armada are still  hovering off Venezuela's coast.

We already captured Maduro. He is in jail. So what are our troops  doing down there? Clearly, this is not about law enforcement. This is  not about democracy. No, as my colleague from Maryland was saying, this  is about oil. The President has made that painfully clear.

President Trump mentioned oil 20 times in his January 3 press  conference after Maduro was captured. He complained that Venezuela  ``stole'' oil from the United States, and we must ``run'' the country  to take the oil back.

But the United States doesn't need the oil. Even U.S. oil companies  didn't want this invasion, nor did these U.S. companies ever own oil or  own land in Venezuela. The Venezuelan Government definitely  nationalized its oil industry in the seventies. That is true. From that  point forward--by the way, that was when I was about 6. I am so old.

But that did happen in the seventies when I was about 6. From that  point forward, Venezuela was certainly not an easy place to do  business. I don't think anybody here would say that, but American  companies stayed, stayed  there despite the nationalization and lack of full compensation they  should have had that was ordered by international courts.

In fact, American companies never pressed for higher compensation  during that initial nationalization. And I would say failing to  reimburse American companies is surely outrageous, but a decades-old  legal dispute over a compensation is not a legitimate justification for  the United States to go to war. And very few Americans--very few  Americans--would support putting boots on the ground to secure  Venezuela's oil.

It would be shockingly irresponsible for the President to send  American troops to ``run'' Venezuela as he promised this weekend,  seemingly, with the sole goal of accessing that country's oil.

Bolivia, Ecuador, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Mexico, Angola, Peru, and  countless other countries have nationalized some American oil assets in  the 21st and 20th centuries. All of them took advantage of American  companies.

Would the Trump administration have us invade and occupy and govern  all these countries to reverse that history? Would the President wield  our military as tax-funded security for the expansion of American oil  giants in these markets?

Remarkably, incredibly, this seems to be his plan. President Trump  has floated sending American troops to secure U.S. companies to rebuild  Venezuela's oil infrastructure. He has even said the U.S. Government  could subsidize these oil companies. Estimates suggest it will cost a  staggering $110 billion to bring Venezuela's oil and gas infrastructure  back to peak production levels and take at least a decade.

I, for one, can think of a lot better uses for that money. And  instead of ``no new wars,'' this President has plunged us into a  quagmire--paid for by the American taxpayer--seemingly, with the  primary goal of giving expensive handouts with respect to oil.

Why should the American people foot the bill for this misadventure?  Why should our tax dollars fund private interests in Venezuela? Why  should American troops risk their lives for any of this? Perhaps the  greatest irony is that Chevron, America's only remaining major oil  company in Venezuela, was not even asking for any of this to happen.  Instead they simply asked the Trump administration, as they had the  Biden administration, to allow their continued operation in Venezuela,  which President Trump had restricted during his first term.

Other American oil firms weren't asking for this either. Few have  much desire to go back into Venezuela, which helps explain why Chevron  and other American companies have no plans--no plans--to spend, as the  President says, ``billions and billions of dollars'' rebuilding  Venezuela's oil industry as the President has declared.

Despite the President's promises to not start new wars nor pursue  regime change operations abroad, today there are 15,000 brave U.S.  troops and an American armada off of Venezuela's coast all without  congressional authorization. And the President is threatening more  attacks on more countries, including every time you turn the TV on, it  is another country: Colombia, Cuba, Mexico, and Greenland, part of  Denmark, a NATO ally.

Congress has not authorized any of these dangerous potential  operations which risk destroying alliances and relationships that have  long kept the American people safe. The Trump administration, however,  continues to trample on our Constitution with unauthorized military  actions while threatening others, weakening U.S. democracy, and making  the world more dangerous in the process.

Congress cannot allow this to stand. I congratulate the Senator from  Virginia for his leadership to make sure the American people's voices  are heard in this moment, on this floor, in this Chamber. We must  reassert our role to prevent the President from his continued  irresponsible conduct.

And I think it is really important for us, as I have heard the  Senator from Virginia say--it is critically important for us to hold  public oversight hearings in which the administration explains to the  American people what they plan to do with the thousands of U.S. troops  off Venezuela's coast, with their plan to ``run'' Venezuela, and with  the regime in Caracas over which they now claim to have control.

The unusual thing about where we are right now is this is not some  after-action report where kinetic activities is already done and now  Congress is complaining that it hasn't been brought into the loop.  Fifteen thousand troops are off the coast of Venezuela today. The  administration should be here today explaining to the American people  what the plan is for those troops.

And if it is, in fact, to secure oil assets for the United States of  America in Venezuela, which I don't believe the American people will  support, I know the American people will never support putting boots on  the ground. The President said I don't mind using the words ``boots on  the ground.'' I think the American people will mind it.

With so many troops and assets still in the region, this is the  opportunity for Congress to help determine what our path forward is  going to be in our backyard, right here in this hemisphere.

The American people did not vote to send U.S. troops on President  Trump's project to Venezuela, but I don't think they voted to dominate  the Western Hemisphere either, which is what President Trump says his  overall mission is.

And as my colleague from Maryland said, he is willing to twist the  Monroe Doctrine. He is not even following it. He is twisting the Monroe  Doctrine, which the United States actually used to keep colonial powers  out of our hemisphere, to justify his own colonial intentions to  exploit Venezuelan oil.

That is a complete inversion of what the Monroe Doctrine is. So I  guess the President has rightly amended it to call it the ``Donroe''  version of the Monroe Doctrine. But in any case, it is gunboat  diplomacy, a 19th century foreign policy we have not seen on this scale  since President McKinley was the President of the United States. And it  will normalize a world in which ``might means right,'' as the White  House is saying today, doing away with the rules-based international  order that we helped build, that has served the United States so well  since World War II.

All of this would seem to be part of the President's embrace of a  ``spheres of influence'' arrangement with China and with Russia. The  President seemed totally fine with allowing China to dominate Asia and  Russia to dominate Europe, as long as they let us dominate the Western  Hemisphere. That is a 19th century idea if there ever was a 19th  century idea.

He clearly sees little reason to compete or constrain them as  demonstrated by his willingness to accept the trade deal with China's  Xi Jinping that overwhelmingly--overwhelmingly--favored Beijing. He was  giving Xi Jinping stuff that he didn't even ask for the minute he was  worried that somehow we were going to get cut off from his critical  minerals.

But as an unrestrained Chinese Middle Kingdom will inevitably expand  outward, as will Russia with its imperial design, history shows us the  result will be a global conflict when these ambitions collide, as they  inevitably will, a global conflict that ultimately will implicate the  United States and put America in danger.

This begins to show you how out of the mainstream this President's  view of the world is. His constant abandonment of basic principles of  international law and order are, again, going to eventually reverberate  against America's national interests. The only question is when.

Indeed, the kind of ``spheres of influence'' arrangement on which the  President seems to be so obsessed or focused is exactly the arrangement  that produced two world wars. It is exactly why, after World War II,  the United States and our allies established the rules-based order to  peacefully resolve conflicts, regulate global trade, and ultimately  ensure rules-based international exchange. That order was never  perfect.

And the United States often undermined it with our own hubris,  particularly the invasion of Iraq--which I opposed. And we need to  learn from our own mistakes, including by avoiding reckless new wars  like the one President Trump has launched.

Nevertheless, the postwar order that prevented war between the great  powers, among the great powers, and for  all its flaws, it largely kept the American people safe. And  criticizing that order seems pretty easy, given its imperfections. But  the critic's task becomes harder once they are forced to compare it  with what came before, the anarchy that preceded the Second World War  and what China and Russia offer for the future of this world.

This is what President Trump risks with his 19th century foreign  policy, with his actions in Venezuela, his lawless strikes across the  Caribbean and Pacific, his threats to invade Colombia, Cuba, Greenland,  and Mexico. These actions and threats will have serious implications  for U.S. national security today and tomorrow.

In the case of Greenland, the President's threats risk the unity of  NATO, our most vital alliance, the most successful alliance in world  history. They risk setting precedent for authoritarian regimes all over  this world to intervene militarily under the guise of going after  leaders accused of criminal conduct or simply to access valuable  natural resources or critical technologies under their control.

Donald Trump, President Trump, says he wants to dominate ``our  hemisphere,'' he calls it. Surely, China's Xi Jinping wants to dominate  what he would describe as his region in Asia, and Vladimir Putin would  like to dominate what he sees as his region in Eurasia. President  Trump's recklessness risks normalizing such imperial aggression,  putting us on a pathway toward a more dangerous world in which ``might  means right'' and the rule of law is abandoned.

Colorado cannot allow this President to create such a world for our  children, which is why we need to continue to fight on a bipartisan  basis when possible to prevent another forever war in Venezuela or  beyond and to constrain the President's dangerous, dangerous ambition  because our country deserves better than this administration's  recklessness and our children surely do as well.

Thank you for allowing me to speak here today, and I hope this will  be a moment when we come together and fulfill the demands that our  Constitution requires of the people fortunate enough to serve in this  body.