Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I, too, am here on the floor today to  oppose the SAVE Act.

Today, Americans register to vote in a variety of ways, typically set  by each State in this country, but Federal law requires that Americans  attest to citizenship under penalty of perjury.

In Colorado, you can register online; you can register in person; you  can register through the mail. It can be as easy as providing your  Social Security number and signature, which every American has, through  the secretary of state's website.

Alternatively, the SAVE Act would change that by requiring that all  American citizens, whether registering for the first time or updating  their registration, to present proof of citizenship in person, largely  in the form of a passport or a birth certificate. In other words,  government issued driver's licenses and military and Tribal  identifications would not satisfy the bill's requirements.

The SAVE Act would severely restrict online voter registration and  mail-in registration and eliminate voter registration drives  altogether. It would make it harder or even impossible for up to 69  million married American women who have changed their names, because  their last name doesn't match the one on their birth certificate.

Meanwhile, half of Americans don't even have a passport. How are they  going to register under this law? They can't.

Over 60 million Americans who live in rural areas--now they are going  to have to drive miles and miles and miles, hours out of their way, to  stand in line at a local election agency.

The SAVE Act does nothing to make it easier to cast a ballot; it only  succeeds in making it harder for Americans to register to vote and to  exercise their rights.

This is not theoretical. Kansas tried to implement its own State- level SAVE Act in 2013, with disastrous results. The law blocked over  30,000 potential registrants in just 2 years--about 12 percent of all  voter registrations during the period. State officials acknowledged in  court that over 99 percent of affected voters were U.S. citizens.

Now, even Kansas's Republican secretary of state, who championed the  bill when he was a State legislator, has warned against it, saying:

It didn't work out so well.

I would say so. About 12 percent of the people who tried to register  couldn't.

Compare those 30,000 Kansans who attempted to register and were  denied to the 30 people--30 people--the 30 noncitizens who reportedly  voted in the 2016 election nationwide. That is about 0.0001 percent of  all votes cast.

If there ever was one, this is a solution in search of a problem, and  the only solution doesn't even work. It only makes it harder for law- abiding Americans to register to vote or patriotic Americans to  register to vote.

Perhaps it would be better if this bill were modeled after the system  that we have in Colorado.

We have set the gold standard in my State. It is a system that  actually encourages people to vote in a fraud-free system. In Colorado,  we are the first State in America to complete a risk-limiting audit,  the gold standard for verifying the integrity of election results to  begin with, and it entails counting and comparing a representative  sample of ballots to the reported result.

To prevent hacking, none of our voting machines are attached to the  internet. We require county clerks to use two-factor authentication to  access voter databases.

And once a vote is cast, a bipartisan team of election judges in each  county checks every signature against the copy in the database for any  discrepancies.

All election officials and judges with access to the tabulation  process must pass a Colorado Bureau of Investigation background check.  Colorado has spent years implementing top-tier cyber security measures  and audits to prevent hackers from interfering with our electoral  process.

We have one of the most secure election systems of any State in the  country, and because Coloradans have trust in our gold standard system,  we have some of the highest voter turnout in America. That is the model  we should be using across the country, in my view. Instead of wasting  time and taxpayer dollars on the SAVE Act, Congress should be  implementing Colorado's practices all across the country.

Thank you very  much for his leadership in bringing the Nation's attention to this  issue today.