Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700787/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. HUSTED. Mr. President, I come today to request a pause in the  political discourse of this Chamber for a moment of reflection.

As those both in this Chamber and across the Nation know, last  Thursday, March 12, 2026, an American KC-135 refueling aircraft went  down in western Iraq.

The crash claimed the lives of the aircraft's six crew members. I  would like to take a moment of the Senate's time this evening to honor  three of  Ohio's favorite sons, the airmen who were serving in the Ohio National  Guard with the 121st Air Refueling Wing at Rickenbacker Air National  Guard Base in Columbus.

And listening to my colleague Senator Lankford, I will say this,  quote a passage from John 15:13:

Greater love has no one than this to lay down one's life       for his friends.

Let me first speak of one of Ohio's favorite sons, Capt. Curtis J.  Angst. He was 30 years old from Wilmington, OH. He was a KC-135 pilot  with 10 years of military service.

He graduated from Wilmington High School in 2014 and enlisted in  Ohio's Air National Guard a year later. He earned a degree in aerospace  engineering in 2020 from the University of Cincinnati. His family  states that his commitment to his country was matched only by his  devotion to his wife Mary and his passion for music, traveling, and the  outdoors.

His family stated:

Those who knew Curtis remember his steady kindness and the       joy he carried with him everywhere he went.

His constant smile and instantly recognizable laugh made       people feel welcome, valued, and part of something bigger.

Another family member described Captain Angst's life as one defined  by service, generosity, and a genuine love for people.

The Air Force says he logged 880 flight hours, 67 of which were in  combat. He was promoted to captain just last November. He earned  multiple honors, including the Air and Space Achievement Medal and the  Meritorious Unit Award.

He will be missed by his wife Mary, his parents, and many more  friends and family.

MSgt Tyler Simmons. You see them all pictured here. There is Curtis.  Here is Tyler. MSgt Tyler Simmons was 28 years old from Columbus, OH.  He was a 2015 graduate of Eastmoor Academy on Columbus's East Side,  where he was his high school's quarterback.

He loved football and was a loyal fan of Texas Christian University,  TCU. His service began in April 2018. His father said that Master  Sergeant Simmons loved airplanes and always had plans for joining the  Air Force.

His unit commander reports that Master Sergeant Simmons has been  posthumously promoted from tech sergeant to master sergeant. He was a  musician and played both the viola and violin in his high school.  Amazing talent.

His family says he loved to roller skate. Tyler loved his family but  was particularly fond of his grandmother Bernice, who, at 85 years old,  is described as his confidante and workout buddy.

Tyler's smile could light up any room. His strong presence would fill  it, his family says. His mother said he loved serving in the military  and that he was born for it.

We mourn today alongside Master Sergeant Simmons' entire family. You  see him pictured there. You can see his smile. You can tell what they  mean when they talk about his smile.

The third individual I would like to honor is Capt. Seth Koval. He  was 38 years old from Mooresville, IN, and he was an aircraft commander  with 19 years of service to our country. He graduated with a bachelor's  degree in aviation operations from Purdue University in 2011. He was a  KC-135R Stratotanker instructor pilot. You see Captain Koval there.

Captain Koval first enlisted in 2006 as a machinist with Indiana's  National Guard 122nd Fighter Wing and transferred to the Ohio National  Guard, which we welcomed and loved to have him, in 2017. He flew a  total of 2,076 hours, 443 of those in combat.

His wife said he grew up dreaming of being a pilot, a dream that his  hard work made come true. He was a man of devout faith in Jesus. He was  a man of devout faith in Jesus as his Lord and Savior. He was described  as loving, generous, selfless, kindhearted, smart, devoted and a fixer  of all things and a real outdoorsman.

His loss is one mourned by many but most of all by his wife Heather,  his son, and countless other close family members and friends of Capt.  Seth Koval.

You see our three heroes right there. These servicemembers, alongside  their three other brothers and sisters in arms, gave the last full  measure of devotion to their country last week.

I thank my colleagues for hearing their stories this evening, for  honoring their service, for celebrating their lives, and for mourning  their loss alongside a grateful nation.

Curtis Angst, MSgt Tyler  Simmons, and Capt. Seth Koval.

Mr. HUSTED. Mr. President, may God bless these servicemembers and  their families.