Aukus Reform for Military Optimization and Review Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694780/aukus-reform-for-military-optimization-and-review-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4233. The AUKUS Agreement  established by the Biden administration was a historic accomplishment,  and Congress has played an important and constructive role in laying  the legislative foundation for closer cooperation between the United  States, the United Kingdom, and Australia.

With this latest legislative effort, Representatives Kim and Dean are  continuing and furthering that legacy and promoting a free and  prosperous Indo-Pacific.

AUKUS is an important way to bolster our alliance structure in East  Asia and the Pacific and do what we do best as a nation: work with our  allies toward a common cause, in this case, a free and open Indo- Pacific.

The AUKUS agreement accomplishes these ends by providing Australia  with additional submarine training and technology in Pillar I, as well  as knitting together cooperative defense research and development  efforts between Australia, the United States, and the U.K. in Pillar  II.

This bill builds on important, bipartisan provisions agreed to in the  fiscal year '24 NDAA which set the foundation for AUKUS and provides  minor technical improvements, as well.

Principally, it clarifies and enshrines the ability for AUKUS  partners to reexport and retransfer defense material and technology  within the AUKUS construct and through established and secured  channels.

The bill also provides other technical fixes and clarifications to  the already strong bipartisan AUKUS foundational text which continues  to serve all three AUKUS countries.

As the Trump administration conducts its belated review of AUKUS,  many of us here in Congress on both sides of the aisle look forward to  seeing AUKUS continue forward. This bill is a helpful contribution to  its shared goals.

Mr. CASTRO of Texas.  Dean).

I applaud the sponsor and cosponsors of the bill for their work on  this legislation. We should be working more closely together with  allies who share our values. That is the central idea behind the AUKUS  agreement and the driving principle of this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support it, and I yield back the balance of  my time.