Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700493/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker, Americans do not want and cannot  afford another war in the Middle East.

On Saturday morning, Americans woke up to the shocking news that our  Nation was at war again in the Middle East. There was no public  justification, no vote to authorize this war in Congress.

Why this war? Why now?

If they say it is about Iran developing a nuclear weapon, just last  year, President Trump claimed Iran's nuclear program had been  completely and totally obliterated. In fact, Iran is further from  perfecting a nuclear weapon now than it has been in years.

Some claim it is to disable air ballistic missile capability, but  Iran doesn't have a single ballistic missile that can reach the  mainland United States, and we don't expect them to for many years.

Is this about terrorism? It is true that Iran has helped finance and  supply groups like Hamas and Hezbollah over the years, but they too are  much weaker, much less capable after 2 years of conflict.

Why now? Well, Secretary Rubio told us himself. He said that Israel  was going to strike Iran, which would have triggered Iranian strikes on  U.S. forces in the region.

Rather than pick up the phone and tell Benjamin Netanyahu to stand  down, the President of the United States buckled and decided to join  their war.

How is this America First?

For 25 years, a generation of American servicemembers and their  families have sacrificed so much because of regime-change wars in the  Middle East. President Trump is now asking yet another generation of  Americans to sacrifice in the hope that this time it will go  differently than Iraq, Afghanistan, or Libya.

This is Donald Trump's war. This is Benjamin Netanyahu's war. Your  vote today will determine whether this is your war, too.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.