Reaffirming Iran Remains the Largest State Sponsor of Terrorism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700546/reaffirming-iran-remains-the-largest-state-sponsor-of-terrorism


Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 1099 is nothing more than a  naked attempt to justify the war with Iran that the President has  already started. I refuse to play their game and will vote NO.

Last week, President Trump took our country into an illegal war with  Iran--a war that the American people do not want and the Congress did  not authorize.

The President has claimed legal authority to take our country into a  war with Iran by pointing to Iran as an imminent threat to the United  States. The fact is that Iran does not currently possess ballistic  missiles capable of reaching the United States, and they are further  from a nuclear weapon than they have been in years. H. Res. 1099's  assertion that Iran poses a ``direct and persistent threat to the  U.S.'' directly reinforces the President's own rationale for taking the  United States into this disastrous war.

This resolution also states that Iran is ``harboring'' al-Qaeda. I am  deeply concerned that this is an attempt to justify the use of the  Authorization for Use of Military Force enacted by the Congress after  the 9/11 attacks to provide legal backing for the President's Iran War.  That law authorized the use of military force against ``those nations,  organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed,  or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or  harbored such organizations or persons.''

While the government of Iran has, in the past, maintained some ties  to members of al-Qaeda, the administration has not presented any  evidence to substantiate any current presence of the organization in  Iran.

If the administration intends to make this claim to justify the  ongoing military action, they must provide that evidence to the  Congress and make a convincing case before I can vote to endorse the  claim.

The Iranian government is no friend of the United States. Their  nuclear and ballistic missile programs are deeply concerning.

That is why I have supported sanctions on Iran and the 2015 Iran  Nuclear Deal, which placed real constraints on Iran's nuclear program.  President Trump decided to remove all constraints on Iran's nuclear  program by withdrawing from that agreement, and laid the groundwork for  the illegal war he initiated last week.

The best way to ensure that no more San Antonians in uniform are put  in harm's way is to end this war and negotiate an agreement with Iran  these concerns rather than pursue a regime change war that will only  make us less safe.

If this resolution had included a clear statement that a war with  Iran would require explicit congressional authorization--as required by  the Constitution--and if the administration had made a clear case to  the Congress substantiating the statements in the resolution, I would  have considered voting for it.

I oppose the President's decision to join Israel in launching an  illegal and disastrous war against Iran. The Republicans are playing  partisan games with matters of war and peace, and I refuse to  participate, which is why I will be voting NO on H. Res. 1099.