Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701841/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-iran


Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker, the President promised the American  people no more foreign wars. Then, he dragged the Nation into war with  Iran. He has threatened genocide against Iran by calling for the death  of a civilization.

This war has caused record inflation, soaring energy prices, and the  death of countless civilians, including scores of schoolgirls.  Americans didn't endorse any of this.

The so-called imminent threat that was used to justify the war was  manufactured. In fact, Iran does not possess any nuclear weapons. They  don't have a single ballistic missile capable of reaching the mainland  United States of America.

This was all a lie. That lie has cost 13 American servicemembers  their lives, and hundreds more have been wounded.

As we speak, President Trump is sending thousands more servicemembers  into the region.

What was this war for? The President keeps changing his answer. How  much will it cost? He refuses to say. When will it end? No answer.

Has he sent a single official to testify to Congress to explain his  decision to go to war? No.

A vote against this resolution is a vote to sideline Congress in the  most consequential decision a government can make, whether to go to  war.

When we go home, in each of our hometowns, we are confronted with  questions about higher grocery bills and why. The answer is this war.

I will tell people that I did not vote for this war. I will tell them  that I don't support the war. I will tell them  that I voted to stop the war. I will tell them that I do not want  another generation of American men and women from San Antonio or  anywhere else in this country in uniform fighting 20-year, trillion- dollar wars in the Middle East. When you go home, what will you tell  your people?

The resolution before us is a chance to show the American people that  this body functions, that it works, that we will not stand aside while  a President wages an unauthorized war.