Uyghur Policy Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694800/uyghur-policy-act-of-2025


Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2635 to  support the human rights of Uyghurs, and I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

I am a proud supporter of Representative Kim's Uyghur Policy Act of  2025. The House Foreign Affairs Committee has played an important  leadership role in pushing for the protection of Uyghurs and other  minorities in Xinjiang in the face of genocide and forced labor, as my  colleague mentioned.

In the last few years, the Congress and the House Foreign Affairs  Committee have prioritized this issue, including marking up and  enacting the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, thanks in large part  to Representative  Jim McGovern and Speaker Emerita Pelosi's  leadership, but our work is far from done because Beijing's oppression  continues.

The legislation before us today is a strong, bipartisan bill. I hope  it sends a clear signal to the Trump administration about Congress'  intent. So far, the administration has cut congressionally authorized  programs that support human rights in China, including initiatives  empowering Chinese and Uyghur-related diaspora groups to combat  transnational repression and defend religious freedom.

Despite the fact that Radio Free Asia helped break the story about  China's program of detention, reeducation, and forced labor, this  administration is trying to close Radio Free Asia as we speak. It has  shut down the only independent Uyghur language service in the entire  world.

I thank Representative Kim and Representative Bera for their  leadership on this bill and hope this administration reverses course.  These cuts aid the CCP, not the victims of their abuse or the American  people.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to champion the protection of Uyghurs as a  Member of Congress. Yet, let me point out someone who is also a fierce  champion of the Uyghurs, perhaps their strongest supporter across the  Capitol, and that is our current Secretary of State Marco Rubio.

Then-Senator Rubio gave an important speech in the Senate to get the  Uyghur Forced Labor Protection Act over the finish line just a few  years ago in 2021. Yet, now, as Secretary, he has overseen drastic cuts  to religious freedom and human rights programming that helps the  Uyghurs.

I hope that this bill augurs a return to Senator Rubio, rather than  what is a disheartening and nonstrategic policy that we have seen from  the State Department today.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this legislation and encourage my  colleagues to do so, as well, and I yield back the balance of my time.