CNN "The Situation Room" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Robert Menendez


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Joining us now, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Bob Menendez. He signed onto this letter to the Trump administration calling for new sanctions on Russia.

Senator, thanks so much for joining us.

So you're demanding new sanctions against Russia, maybe against Putin himself, for the 2020 election interference. What do you fear are the consequences of not acting?

SEN. ROBERT MENENDEZ (D-NJ): The consequences of not acting are the same consequences that we have had under this administration, that it only emboldens Putin and Russia, and sends a global message to any other nefarious actors that you can do this and get away, undermining American elections, undermining American democracy.

And only Americans should decide American elections. And that should be with a purity that does not involve any foreign entity getting engaged.

So, what does the administration do? It has laws that I helped pass, like CAATSA, Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions. It has executive orders on the books. It doesn't even need a new law. All it needs is to use the powers that we have given the president to go after Putin, to go after the nefarious actors, and make it very clear, in no equivocal terms, that, in fact, this will not be tolerated.

But that has not happened under this administration. And we see in the Senate the difficulties of getting election security legislation passed.

So, you begin to wonder, is it now OK to say that a foreign government, if it happens to be on one person's side, can be engaged in our elections? No, I don't care who they're engaged for or what they're engaged in. They need to be out.

And that's why we felt the urgency of this letter. We're only about eight months away from the election. When are we going to send a message that, don't mess with our elections?

[18:10:07]

BLITZER: Because I see you signed the letter. Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, signed it, Sherrod Brown. Any Republicans, any of your Republican colleagues in the Senate on board?

MENENDEZ: Well, not so far, although I must say that legislation that I passed with Senator Lindsey Graham out of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation, legislation called DASKA, which is specifically focused on Russia, is pending on the Senate floor.

It had bipartisan votes out of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. That's a bill that could be bought up right now, passed into law, and the House has a similar provision, send it on to the president.

Let's challenge the president, in a bipartisan way, to defend American democracy and to put up a vigorous opposition and a clear, unequivocal message that we will not permit foreign interference by Russia or any other country or actor in our elections.

BLITZER: The president's national security adviser, Robert O'Brien, said yesterday he hasn't seen any intelligence showing that Russia wants President Trump to win reelection.

Do you have reason to doubt the national security adviser?

MENENDEZ: Well, Wolf, first of all, a point on your question, and then I will get to it directly.

Number one is, regardless of whether they're pushing for Trump or Bernie Sanders or anyone else, there's no dispute as to they are engaged in trying to undermine our elections, no dispute.

And so, regardless of who they're pushing for, we should see an administration that is forcefully pushing back on that country and those nefarious actors.

Number two, I don't know. I haven't seen -- I haven't had the personal briefing on the information. So I can't tell you, other than what I have read publicly.

But I will say this. Clearly, the Russians decided -- and that was the unanimous view in terms of the last election of helping President Trump, then candidate Trump, because they thought their interests were better served with him.

I have seen nothing that has happened over the last three-plus years to tell the Russians that they're better off with someone else. So the decision they made four years ago in 2016 seems to be pretty much what they will probably do in 2020.

BLITZER: Senator Menendez, I got to leave it there. We will have you back soon. Thanks so much for joining us.

MENENDEZ: Thank you.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT