CNN "The Lead with Jake Tapper" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Bob Menendez


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Joining me now is New Jersey Democratic Senator Bob Menendez who will be, as will all his colleagues, a juror in the upcoming Senate impeachment trial. Senator Menendez, thanks for joining us as always. Do you really think Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is going to allow witnesses?

SEN. BOB MENENDEZ (D-NJ): Well, I don't think that -- left to his own volition, he will allow witnesses. But the question will be whether several of my Republican colleagues who say that they express an interest and a desire to see witnesses, whether they'll vote that way.

If they do, then there will be witnesses and the only way that we don't have witnesses, if Republican senators, at least a few of them, don't join us to have certain critical witnesses. We're not looking for a lot of witnesses. We're looking for critical witnesses that can shed light on some of the essential elements of the House's impeachment articles.

TAPPER: Who are you looking for? John Bolton, Mick Mulvaney, anyone else?

MENENDEZ: John Bolton, the former national security adviser, who two- thirds of the people want to see testify, and Mulvaney, the chief of staff, some of the people at OMB who got the call after President Trump spoke to the Ukrainian president and said the President wants a hold on these monies, I think those are some of the essential people that need to testify, as well as some essential documents that I think proved the case.

We've begun to see a series of emails and other correspondence that has come out by virtue of litigation in the courts. Imagine if we had all of those documents to deduce what really happened here. And most Americans know that a trial, whether they are a juror or been a participant in it, includes witnesses and documents.

TAPPER: Senator, obviously, the Republicans control the Senate. The Democrats don't. So, that's who the Democrats want to testify, as you just said.

Republican Senator Rand Paul gave a warning about the risk of calling witnesses, writing, quote: My colleagues can't have it both ways -- calling for some, while blocking others. If we're going to give a platform to witnesses the Democrats demand, I look forward to forcing votes to call Hunter Biden and many more.

Now, I understand you think that Hunter Biden is not germane, that the whistle-blower doesn't need to testify, and on and on, but is that a trade you're willing to make, given the fact that -- let's be honest -- the Democrats don't have the votes? I mean, you need the Republicans to join with you.

MENENDEZ: Well, I think that some of the senators who I have spoken to, and who I hear publicly expressing concerns and interests about having witnesses don't want to turn this into a circus.

There's a difference between having witnesses that have substantial and substantive information and can shed light on the issues of the charges that the House has brought to their impeachment articles and then creating a circus. If we want to create a circus, that's a different thing.

I think Republicans run a risk if they actually want to have a Hunter Biden or others that have no substance on the articles of impeachment, that at the end of the day, it'll be seen as a circus, and it won't be the fair, full, honest trial that the American people want to see.

TAPPER: Listen to House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy today arguing that by holding back the articles until now, Speaker Pelosi essentially helped Joe Biden in his presidential bid.

Let's roll that tape.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): No one questions about what she gained was nothing. But if there's anyone who gained from this, it'd be anybody who's running for president that's not in the U.S. Senate. With Iowa quickly upon us in early February, those four senators who are running for president will now no longer have a voice. (END VIDEO CLIP)

TAPPER: McCarthy also called on Biden to suspend his campaign while the trial is going on. What do you make of all that?

MENENDEZ: It's pure politics. Look, if, you know, President Trump has elicited and had Rudy Giuliani go to Ukraine, now, the Russians are in the midst of doing what they did in his last election, looking into Burisma, the company that Hunter Biden worked on, to see if they can dig up dirt. The Russians are once again digging up dirt for the President, it's politics.

At the end of the day, the speaker wanted to ensure that the sanctity of the House's efforts were preserved and an opportunity in the Senate to leverage the opportunity for witnesses and documents. And I think that the documents that have come out that make a compelling case and witnesses that even some Republican senators are now saying they want to see inure to the benefit of what she's done.

So, I don't think this is about the politics of Joe Biden or anybody else. It's about the sanctity of the impeachment process that the House took.

TAPPER: Senator Bob Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, thanks so much.

MENENDEZ: Thank you.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT