CNN "The Lead with Jake Tapper" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Bob Menendez


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Joining me now is Senator Bob Menendez of New Jersey. He's the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

Senator, good to see you.

Just to remind our viewers, you have been a frequent critic of the Iranian regime. You opposed the Obama era nuclear pact with Iran.

How would you like to see the Trump administration respond to what's going on in Iraq?

SEN. ROBERT MENENDEZ (D-NJ): Well, Jake, the problem with the Trump administration's maximum pressure campaign is that it is only sanctions and no effort to create an international coalition to bring Iran back to the negotiating table and deal with its nuclear program.

So it's like a pressure cooker. If a pressure cooker doesn't have a release valve, it ultimately explodes. So, what we have seen with the president's maximum pressure campaign, without any efforts in diplomacy, is the consequences of Iran actually creating a shorter nuclear breakout time than it did before.

We have seen the circumstances under which Iran is attacking international commerce in the Strait of Hormuz. We see Iran having a land bridge into Syria to attack our ally the state of Israel. We see Iran in naval exercises with Russia and China, two countries who previously were working with us to limit Iran's nuclear influence.

And you and you see the attack that took the death of an American contractor, so -- and now on its related forces on our embassy. So, this is not changing Iran. So, challenging Iran is one thing, but having the strategic and diplomatic efforts to get them to the table -- sanctions are a tool to ultimately get to your goal, which is to stop Iran's nuclear program.

But for that, you need to have a negotiation.

TAPPER: Defense Secretary Mark Esper said today that Iran might attack the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad again through their militia, through their proxies, or maybe some other attack, and, if Iran does, the regime will -- quote -- "likely regret it."

Do you think Iran at this point is afraid of military action from the United States? Or do you think that they don't think that President Trump would be willing to do it?

MENENDEZ: I think they will still be calibrated in their responses.

But the problem with this tit for tat is, at one point, there is going to be a miscalculation. And when we have that miscalculation, we're going to be in a regrettable set of potential military activities and military engagement that can spiral in a way that leads us to an unauthorized war.

And so this is why creating a diplomatic surge right now -- I mean, I have spoken to representatives of our allies, Great Britain, France, Germany and others, who are ready to join with us, I believe, in an effort to bring Iran back to the negotiating table.

But, in this regard, I see no effort by the administration trying to match their maximum pressure with a surge in diplomacy.

TAPPER: With a way, an off-ramp for the Iranians.

MENENDEZ: Absolutely.

TAPPER: Iran does support this militia that the Pentagon concluded was responsible for the death of an American contractor. Do you think President Trump was right to order the strike on Sunday in retaliation for the contractor's death, which then sparked this attack on the embassy, according to the militia?

MENENDEZ: Well, I don't know the set of options that were given to the president.

Obviously, a response needed to be had. Whether this was the appropriate response, the most intelligent response, the most limited response necessary to show that there was going to be a consequence for any such attacks, is not in the portfolio of answers that I have, because I don't have all the access to the Department of Defense initiatives that they presented to the president.

[16:10:06]

But, once again, even in the aftermath of a response, what I hear the secretary of defense is talking about military actions. What I need to see is the secretary of state traveling to Europe, to our allies, and joining and creating a coalition to bring Iran back to the negotiating table.

That is what's missing in this regard.

TAPPER: The U.S. still has about 5,000 service members and others, contractors, in Iraq.

Many in the Iraqi government have said the U.S. should get out. Should we? Should the U.S. withdraw.

MENENDEZ: No, I think it would be an enormous collapse of Iraq, after so much blood and national treasure that has been spent in Iraq.

If we withdraw, virtually every other Western country that is participating in Iraq will withdraw. Iran, which already has enormous influence in Iraq, might very well devour it.

The protests that you see in Iraq are largely against Iranian influence. So I don't take the attack on the embassy as a statement of Iraqi sentiment. I take it as, obviously, Iran's surrogates.

So you have to calibrate, what are you going to do? If you totally withdraw, both in your security interests within the region, as well as standing up Iraq against Iranian influence, I think that would be a huge mistake. And that's an issue that I hope the administration is working over very arduously, as a vote in Parliament seems to be taking place as early as next week.

TAPPER: Let me ask you about North Korea.

President Trump's former National Security Adviser John Bolton tweeted -- quote -- "How to respond to Kim Jong-un's threatening New Year's remarks? The U.S. should fully resume all canceled or downsized military exercises in South Korea, hold congressional hearings on whether U.S. troops are truly ready to 'fight tonight.'"

If North Korea does conduct a nuclear test soon or a test of a nuclear weapon, what would you advise President Trump to do?

MENENDEZ: Well, I do believe that having canceled the military exercises was an enormous gift to Kim Jong-un, without any benefit. He took him from an international pariah and has made him acceptable now in the international community.

And he's weakened our sanctions regime, because people think we're engaged with North Korea, so why shouldn't they?

And so you have to resume the sanctions regime. And you have to engage China vigorously, because China is probably the key to whether or not you can have a successful outcome with North Korea.

None of that, from my perspective, is going on right now.

TAPPER: Senator Bob Menendez of New Jersey, thanks so much, and happy new year to you, sir.

MENENDEZ: Happy new year to you and all your viewers.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT