Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, first of all, I want to thank the  staff here in the Senate. Even in these difficult times, they answer  the call of doing the work of the American people, and I want to  appreciate their being here so that the Senate can conduct its work.  They are essential to being able to do that. So I want to acknowledge  that. 

  I come to the floor today as our country grapples with a global  pandemic that, tragically, has claimed the lives of thousands of people  around the world, including dozens throughout the United States and  three in my home State of New Jersey. 

  I come to the floor because I hope that people understand the fierce  urgency of ``now''--the fierce urgency of ``now.'' This is a public  health crisis, and we can't wait to act. 

  The rapid spread of COVID-19, also known as the coronavirus, has  disrupted our daily lives. It has destabilized our economy and has  imposed an enormous strain on our healthcare system. 

  I think many failed to grasp the scope of this threat--the lack of a  national response just as the virus began to reach America's shores.  But I am not here to talk today about where the administration went  wrong; I am here to talk about how it can start making things right. 

  If there is anything we have learned in recent weeks, it is that you  have to be proactive. In the past week, the number of confirmed COVID- 19 cases here in the United States jumped from around 1,000 to well  over 4,000. While other countries were testing thousands of people, the  United States was testing mere dozens. While other countries were  staging makeshift hospitals, we were overloading ours. While other  countries implemented aggressive social distancing measures to limit  the spread of COVID-19, our government sent mixed signals to the  American people about the sacrifices they must make in order to save,  maybe, their lives and, if not, the lives of others. 

  State leaders like my own Governor, Phil Murphy, stepped in to fill  the leadership void. Earlier this week, he, along with the Governors of  New York and Connecticut, imposed new restrictions on restaurants,  shops, and other public gathering spaces. These are tough,  unquestionably, but we need every New Jerseyan, as well as every  American, to take Federal and State recommendations about social  distancing seriously, avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people,  washing your hands frequently, and if you feel sick, staying home and  calling your healthcare provider immediately. 

  We all need to be part of the solution or we can become part of the  statistics. We all need to be part of the solution. This is one time in  which we all must come together as Americans and be part of the  solution so that we are not part of the statistics. 

  Already families are feeling the impact, whether in lost wages,  smaller paychecks, school closures, restaurant curfews, or outright job  losses. That is why I am calling on the Senate to act today--today--on  legislation that will provide paid leave and unemployment assistance to  impacted workers, food assistance to children and seniors, more funding  for Medicaid. We cannot leave families alone to weather the storm. 

  We also need to do more to help restaurants and shops and other  businesses struggling with the economic fallout of the coronavirus from  mandatory curfews to supply chain shortages, to decreased demand for  their services. They need help. At the end of the day, we want them to  be able to survive the crisis in order to offer the employment that  will be necessary to revive the economy. 

  But we must remember that this is first and foremost a public health  crisis. The wealth of our Nation will ultimately depend on the health  of our Nation. Nothing economically will be solved without dealing with  the health of the American people, and we cannot ignore the demands  that COVID-19 will make on our healthcare sector and, especially,  hospitals in the days and weeks to come. 

  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the CDC, has  projected that between 160 million and 214 million people could  contract COVID-19 in the United States and that between 2.4 million and  21 million of those infected could require hospitalization. As a means  of comparison, our hospital system has less than 1 million staffed  beds, which would be inadequate even under the CDC's most optimistic  projections. 

  Hospitals must also have the resources and equipment available to  treat the expected influx of patients. There is a significant concern  that the Nation's supply of mechanical respirators and ventilators is  inadequate to meet the exponential need we will likely experience in  the coming weeks and months. The latest data indicates that there may  be only 62,000 hospital ventilators in the entire nation. Even  if only half of those hospitalized require ventilation, our supply  would be wholly inadequate to fill the demand. 

  Healthcare workers also need protective gear to do their lifesaving  work without risking infection to themselves. Unfortunately, there have  been multiple reports of shortages of personal protective equipment  even during the opening days of this outbreak. Failure to protect our  healthcare workers and support staff would cause a cascading effect  that would cause our entire response to collapse. 

  Simply put, we need the Federal Government to step in and provide  real leadership. In the midst of a pandemic, State and local  governments should not be left on their own, scrambling to find or  purchase ventilators for patients, personal protective gear for  healthcare workers, and other critical medical supplies. The Federal  Government has a tremendous obligation and an opportunity to help save  lives by assisting State and local governments in locating resources,  using existing authorities to increase manufacturing of ventilators and  other critical equipment, and preparing for the staging of temporary  hospitals and beds, and more. 

  Let's look at military facilities that have been closed. There is one  in my State. Let's open them up. Let's construct MASH units. Let's not  wait. Let's rent out hotels that are closing. These are some of the  many actions that can be taken if we are decisive in our work. That is  why I am calling on the President to immediately exercise the powers  authorized by the Defense Production Act to defend the health and  safety of the American people in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. 

  While the administration's response has so far lacked the energy this  crisis calls for, invoking the powers vested in the Defense Production  Act will enable the Federal Government to step up and take the types of  aggressive steps needed in this time of uncertainty. It is that act  that can give the Federal Government the power to say: We are going to  become your partner. We want to infuse massive amounts of money to  create the ventilators that we need, the personal protective gear that  we need, and if we can't get you to produce it, we are going to produce  it. 

  We need to use the power of the Federal Government to have the type  of response that this moment calls for, that this crisis calls for.  That is what government in its most significant moment is supposed to  be all about. That is really what the Federal Government is supposed to  be all about. What States cannot individually do or individual  communities cannot do, it is the power of the Federal Government that  can do it. We must be willing to mobilize that power. 

  It is time the United States of America live up to its history of  defeating extraordinary challenges and prevailing in the face of great  uncertainty. It is time to harness the ingenuity of our people, the  might of our manufacturing base, and the wisdom of our healthcare  experts to confront COVID-19 to protect our families and our  communities, to slow the spread of the virus so we don't overwhelm our  hospitals so that we can save lives. 

  I have seen some of the projections. I hope, for God's sake, they are  wrong. But we will lose many people unless we all take this seriously  and unless we act. This is a moment for action and to show the world  once again that there is no challenge too great for the American  people. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT