Cotton, Menendez, Markey, and Gardner Introduce Resolution Honoring Dr. Li Wenliang


Senators Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Bob Menendez (D-New Jersey), Ed Markey (D-Massachusetts), and Cory Gardner (R-Colorado) today introduced a resolution honoring the life of Dr. Li Wenliang, the Chinese doctor who first identified the severity of the coronavirus outbreak in China late last year and sought to warn the government about the potentially devastating impact of the disease. Dr. Li succumbed to the coronavirus on February 7, 2020. The resolution also calls for transparency and cooperation from the government of the People's Republic of China and the Communist Party of China.

"Dr. Li heroically tried to protect his country and the world from the deadly coronavirus, but was silenced by the Chinese Communist Party. Now they have his blood on their hands. But Dr. Li's death doesn't have to be in vain. We should honor his memory by pushing the CCP to be fully transparent about the coronavirus and their efforts to stop the spread of this deadly disease," said Senator Cotton.

"Dr. Li's action in seeking to bring attention to and treat the Coronavirus outbreak was nothing short of heroic. He - and all the Chinese medical professionals seeking to address this pandemic-have my support, as do the Chinese people. The Chinese government and Communist Party must be open and transparent with their own people and with the international community as we seek to work together to address this virus and develop effective treatment. Censorship, repression and partnership on international health issues are far from "perfect together'," said Senator Menendez.

"The authorities silenced Dr. Li the medical professional, but Dr. Li the citizen made a call for greater openness and transparency that will reverberate long after his passing. I stand with those in China now demanding freedom of speech, and I thank the Chinese doctors, nurses, medical professions, and all who are providing assistance on the front lines during this critical time. The Chinese government must cease its censorship, allow Taiwan the safety and security benefits of membership in international organizations, and cooperate internationally to mitigate this health crisis," said Senator Markey.

"Dr. Li Wenliang tried to warn the world about the Wuhan coronavirus, but the Chinese Communist Party stood in the way. Now the Wuhan coronavirus has taken Dr. Li's life and killed more people than the SARS outbreak in 2003," said Senator Gardner. "We must ensure that this communicable and deadly virus is contained, and that means that the Chinese Communist Party must not be allowed to hide details of the Wuhan coronavirus from its people and the world."