Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask to speak for up to 5 minutes  before the vote. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I want to, first of all, thank Senator  Merkley for his leadership on the resolution and for his thoughtful and  substantive contributions as a member of the Senate Foreign Relations  Committee and to express our deep disappointment that our Republican  colleagues are blocking his resolution, which basically says that we  should not move forward on a nominee--in this case, this nominee--when  there are false statements to the IRS and to the Foreign Relations  Committee for which he refuses to correct the record, which would have  consequences. Those are indisputable. 

  It is abundantly clear that we need to formalize some standards that  apply equally to all nominees, Democrat and Republican alike, and we  should think of it as a floor beneath which the Senate should not fall. 

  Now, it is amazing to me that I know my Republican colleagues used to  care about tax issues. As a matter of fact, they denied a previous  distinguished majority leader of the Senate--on some arcane issue--the  opportunity to become the Secretary of Health and Human Services. They  have done it a bunch of times. 

  This issue is a $4 million tax issue in which Mr. Pack took his  nonprofit, totally controlled by him--totally controlled by him--and  had all the moneys that were solicited to the nonprofit then sent to  his for-profit company, totally controlled by him--totally controlled  by him. And no other disbursements were made from the nonprofit for  anyone else, for any other entity. 

  I didn't hear until now that the Justice Department and the IRS has  reviewed this. It should be forthcoming, then, that they have cleared  this, that this is now in the course of business. We can create a  nonprofit; go ahead and get moneys from people; they will get their  deductions; and then we can send it to ourselves for profit. That is  one heck of a process. 

  Now, the chairman continues to say ``2 years.'' Well, 2 years ago  there was a Republican chairman of the committee--our colleague Bob  Corker. He  did not move this nomination 2 years ago. So with this constant refrain  of 2 years, I guess you want to blame former Senator Corker for not  moving it during that period of time. 

  At the chairman's request, I met with Mr. Pack. While he may not have  been my nominee, I agreed to have a hearing, which is one of the  standards we have in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. There is  an agreement between the chair and ranking. That has been violated for  Mr. Pack. He actually went to a vote before the committee without my  agreement, so that comity has been violated for the future. 

  At the end of the day, we have someone who will not ultimately--he  says: Yes, I made a ``mistake''--it is a $4 million mistake--and, yes,  I should have answered differently. 

  Well, why not correct it? If it is so simple, if it is so benign, why  not correct it? The reason you don't want to correct it is that there  are consequences that flow from that correction, including probably an  IRS investigation. 

  Finally, it is interesting that, I guess, when Attorney General Barr  does something, it is not political, but when the attorney general of  the District of Columbia does it, it is political. I didn't know we  were going to start choosing and picking which law enforcement entities  are political in this country. 

  The attorney general of the District of Columbia had an investigation  that was preceding before any action of the committee--preceding before  any action of the committee or any information brought to the attention  of the attorney general. Evidently, he considers it significantly  serious enough--potential IRS violations on taxes. 

  So here are our Republican colleagues who, in the past, railed  against anyone who had violations of the IRS Tax Code, saying they are  not worthy of being a nominee, to going ahead and ramming through  someone who ultimately has some serious issues to the tune of $4  million, and that is not a problem. Under investigation--that is not a  problem. 

  So I urge my colleagues to consider what you are doing here. Not only  was a precedent set at the committee, but you will set a precedent on  the floor, and it will be very hard for you to get up and rail about  somebody's tax liabilities and what they did and didn't do honestly  with the taxes at the end of the day. 

                                  Cloture Motion  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT