Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I rise to oppose the nomination of  Michael Pack to be the Chief Executive Officer of the U.S. Agency for  Global Media. Yet, before I get into the specifics of the Pack  nomination, I need to say a few words about the moment we are in and  how we got here. 

  We are facing two devastating crises. Over 100,000 Americans have  died from COVID-19 in just a matter of months, and that number  continues to grow. The scale and the speed of the tragedy is almost  impossible to comprehend. We certainly stand with all of our families  who have lost loved ones, and we cherish their memories. Unlike COVID- 19, the second crisis is one of our own making. 

  Over centuries of injustice, African Americans and other people of  color have not been treated like human beings; they have not been  treated like every American deserves to be treated, like every person  in the world has the right to be treated. No. All too often, they have  been treated like George Floyd, with a knee on the neck as they gasp  and choke ``I can't breathe.'' As a result, our country has erupted  with protests. In this moment, these grievances have been met with the  petty antics and deplorable, violent tactics of notorious dictators  around the world. 

  I am shaking in having to say this. I am shaken to the core that  President Trump, with the assistance of his Attorney General, used  violence against peaceful protesters--people exercising their First  Amendment rights--all for a photo op with a Bible. That is not right.  It is not acceptable, and that is not America. 

  This body has to act. We have to act quickly and effectively to  address these twin crises. The moment calls for leadership at every  level. We all know this, but we are not doing it. Why not? The answer  is that President Trump and the Republican majority of this body are  focused elsewhere while our country is suffering--perhaps like never  before. They are focused on domestic political errands. Yet, while  trivial, these errands are corrosive to this body, to our country, and  to the Constitution. 

  I need to say a few words about what is and what is not happening in  the Committee on Foreign Relations, because it bears directly on how  and why Michael Pack is getting a vote on the Senate floor today. 

  The Committee on Foreign Relations has helped to shape our collective  response to some of the country's greatest challenges--from Vietnam to  September 11, to Afghanistan. We ought to be rising to the challenges  of our time and shaping the international response to COVID-19. Yet,  tragically, we have not held one public hearing on COVID, and the  committee has not debated or voted on a single COVID-related bill or  amendment despite our being months into the crisis. I know the  Democratic members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations came  together and offered a bill as part of an effort to be bipartisan so as  to begin to address the crisis, because we understand that viruses and  diseases know no borders. 

  For as long as anyone can remember, until its current chairman, the  committee has operated pursuant to what is known as comity. While that  sounds like a fancy word, it simply means that we have found a way to  work together to achieve a process that has worked for all members--the  majority and minority alike--even if we haven't always agreed on the  substance. Had the chairman engaged to our condition of comity, we  would have almost certainly had a business meeting that would have  focused on COVID, which is the crisis at hand, and not Mr. Pack--a  blatantly flawed nominee. I know that ``comity'' sounds awfully quaint  in the polarized times in which we live, but it has worked. It has  worked for the members, for the committee, and for the country. It has  been the force that has bound us together, the force by which we have  found common ground to advance the national interest 

  I am sad to report that the Michael Pack nomination was the nail in  the coffin for comity. The chairman ignored the requests of every  member of the committee's minority--a simple request: Let's not vote on  Michael Pack until we have collectively worked through all of the  serious background problems that exist. The letter that was sent to the  chairman did not even get responded to prior to ramming Pack through  the committee. That silence and the actions that have been taken have  changed the committee and, I believe, the Senate for the worse. 

  I don't have the time or the inclination to go through every  violation of the rules and norms that marred the committee's process on  Michael Pack, but there is one violation that I have to speak to, one  that is so serious and so corrosive that it needs to be documented and  should never be repeated. I am speaking about the chairman's refusal to  allow a video stream live of the committee's debate and vote on Mr.  Pack. Yes, the chairman intentionally deprived the public of its  opportunity to watch this unfortunate episode unfold as it did. This  was shameful. It violated the rules. It sent the wrong message to every  American and every person around the world. 

  This committee is a beacon of light to the world for those who are  oppressed, for transparency, for open government, for the rule of law,  for a free press. Well, we shut out the Nation and the world for the  first time in my years of being on the committee. Since I got to the  Senate, I have been on the committee. I am the longest serving member  of the committee from either side of the aisle. Never have we done  that. This is a message that we are weak, a message that we are  ashamed, a message that has no place in our democracy. 

  Now let me turn to Mr. Pack. 

  If confirmed, Mr. Pack will oversee the Voice of America, Radio Free  Europe/Radio Liberty, Radio Television Marti, Radio Free Asia, and the  Middle East Broadcasting Networks. It is absolutely critical that any  person in this position maintain a strong firewall  between the work of its networks and grantees and political  interference or influence from the White House or any others. People  around the world have come to view the products from all of the  networks and grantees as being reliable and trustworthy news sources. 

  As this pandemic has highlighted, people crave reliable, independent,  and credible journalism. The networks of the USAGM are sometimes the  only independent journalism a country can rely on to bring free and  open media to closed societies. In the past, the agency has made some  serious missteps and the board and the agency's head have historically  worked with Congress to help to address them. 

  Sadly, the debate over Mr. Pack has not even ripened to a discussion  of his substantive qualifications. No. We are stuck dealing with the  nominee's serious background problems despite there being multiple  efforts to engage Chairman Risch, the White House, and Mr. Pack himself  on these matters. The central issue with Mr. Pack is the way that he  used--perhaps abused--his nonprofit organization, Public Media Lab, and  his refusal to come clean about it. 

  As you can see from this chart, Mr. Pack is the president of both the  Public Media Lab and his for-profit company, Manifold Productions, LLC,  which he owns. It is where Gina Pack, his wife, is the vice president  and sole other employee. Mr. Pack created and controls both  organizations. Since creating Public Media Lab in 2008, Mr. Pack has  used it to raise more than $4 million from private foundations. Some of  those grants were earmarked to make specific films while others, like a  $250,000 grant from the Charles Koch Foundation, were simply for  ``general operating support'' for Public Media Lab.  

  As you can see from this next chart, Mr. Pack transferred 100  percent--100 percent--of the tax-exempt grant money Public Media Lab  received to his for-profit company Manifold. No grants were given to  any other organization--none. The IRS would probably call that  operating a nonprofit for private benefit, but I will get to that in a  minute. 

  Some of that grant money was used to make films, but based on Mr.  Pack's financial disclosures, it is possible that up to 75 percent of  it--millions of dollars--went straight to Mr. Pack and his wife Gina. 

  What you see on this chart, as was suggested in the debate the other  day, is not normal. It is not normal. This is not the standard. This is  not how it is done in the industry. That is why the Office of the  Attorney General for the District of Columbia, where Public Media Lab  is incorporated, is now investigating Mr. Pack's nonprofit for possibly  breaking the law. The question they are asking is whether Mr. Pack used  donations to the nonprofit for his own enrichment--to line his own  pockets. 

  From my understanding, this kind of behavior would normally raise  some yellow flags at the IRS as well and they would be curious as to  why a nonprofit seemed to be operating for the sole benefit of its  creator, but the yellow flag never went up at the IRS because, for many  years after he created Public Media Lab, Mr. Pack never disclosed that  it was doing business with his company--with himself. 

  The IRS asks nonprofits two key questions to determine whether a  situation of private benefit might exist, and for many, many years, Mr.  Pack falsely told the IRS there was no relationship. When the IRS asked  Mr. Pack, under penalty of perjury, whether Public Media Lab provided  grants to any entity controlled by an officer of the nonprofit, he said  no, year after year. But the true answer was yes. The IRS also asked  Mr. Pack, again, under penalty of perjury, whether Public Media Lab  conducted business with any entity that it shared officers or directors  with. Again and again, year after year, Mr. Pack said no, but the true  answer was yes. 

  Had Mr. Pack told the IRS the truth, he would have had to make  additional disclosures that might have raised that yellow flag, but the  IRS was left in the dark by Mr. Pack's false statements. 

  When the committee confronted Mr. Pack last year with these false  statements, he claimed they were ``oversights'' and that he did not  need to amend his filings because his false statements were  unintentional, but then he turned around and made false statements to  the committee about his taxes. 

  Unfortunately, given the false statements to the IRS year after year  and then to the committee, we have to be concerned that Mr. Pack has a  problem with the truth. Mr. Pack needs to come clean with the Senate,  and he needs to come clean with the IRS. He needs to tell the IRS what  is on this chart, how much grant money he transferred from Public Media  Lab to Manifold, and that he sent it from himself to himself. 

  So let's review what we have learned from these charts. First, Mr.  Pack may have conducted unlawful expenditures with his nonprofit and  operated it for private gain. Second, the IRS and the Senate don't know  the full truth because Mr. Pack has made false statements and refused  to provide documentation. Third, Mr. Pack's nonprofit is now under  investigation by the Office of the Attorney General for the District of  Columbia for the very issues that I have been seeking answers from him  for 9 months--9 months. 

  As my friend Senator Murphy solemnly noted yesterday, nominees need  to tell the truth to Congress and the executive branch, and if there  has been a mistake, the nominee needs to fix it. These are the basic  requirements for all nominees who come before the Senate and the  absolute minimum standard we used to ask them to meet. 

  We live in an era where the extraordinary quickly becomes routine,  but even by that metric, Mr. Pack's path to this floor has been a  disgrace. If advice and consent means anything, at rock bottom, it  means ensuring that the people we confirm are suitable for public  service; and if they are not, we should not move forward. 

  I am aware of the pressure that some of my colleagues face as a  result of this nomination. I know that the President has publicly  trashed Voice of America, calling it ``the voice of the Soviet Union,''  which I hasten to say is dangerous nonsense. And I know that the  President has spoken both publicly and privately of his intense desire  to confirm Mr. Pack, come what may. But the objections I have raised  today and have been raising for months are not political or partisan in  nature. They go to the most basic and critical question: Is Michael  Pack fit to serve? Should he be confirmed while he is under  investigation and after having been dishonest with the Senate and the  IRS? Given his alleged use of a small nonprofit for self-enrichment,  can we trust that he will not use the massive resources of the U.S.  Government to line his own pockets? 

  Colleagues, I implore you to consider these questions. Please put  aside whatever pressure, whatever threats the President has made, and  consider the dangerous precedent we are setting here today. If Mr. Pack  is confirmed, the new bar for advice and consent is set below that of a  nominee who is under open investigation by law enforcement and who  blatantly provided Congress and the executive branch false information. 

  This institution has been called the world's greatest deliberative  body. The history of this body guides us, and we make our decisions not  just based on the immediate needs of the President but on the example  we will set for the future. I ask my colleagues who may be inclined to  support Mr. Pack's nomination today, are you comfortable with this  precedent? The answer should be obvious, and I pray that this body has  the courage to get there. Let us turn away from Michael Pack, and let  us focus on healing the wounds of our Nation and our democracy. 

                                  Cloture Motion  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT