Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, it is a pleasure to join Senators  Whitehouse and Sullivan on the floor today to thank our colleagues for  passing the legislation that we have all coauthored to combat the  environmental crisis of plastic waste in our oceans. 

  Our partnership represents both the geographic and political urgency  behind this growing crisis. Save Our Seas 2.0 is a multifaceted effort  that will help the United States to better prevent plastic pollution,  respond to marine debris emergencies, and leverage U.S. foreign policy  and international engagement to prevent and clean up foreign sources of  plastic pollution. 

  We have a responsibility to protect the health of the world's oceans,  which regulate our climate, produce half of the Earth's oxygen supply,  and provide food to 2.6 billion people worldwide. 

  The environmental health of our world depends on healthy oceans, and  plastic pollution and marine debris are like cholesterol clogging  global ecosystems in countless ways. The reality is that plastic waste  in our ocean knows no borders. What may be a plastic wrapper floating  down a river in China today could be microplastic in your tuna salad  tomorrow. 

  Let me thank Senator Whitehouse, who has been so much engaged in our  oceans since his coming to the Senate--well, even before that, but,  certainly, as a leader in the Senate--and Senator Sullivan for their  longstanding bipartisan leadership on this issue and cooperation on the  bill. 

  I was happy to have supported the original Save Our Seas Act in the  115th Congress. Last year, when several international news stories  exposed the tragic environmental impact of plastic on our marine  environment, I began working on legislation to enhance U.S.  international engagement on this truly global crisis, which served as  the basis for title II of our bill. At the time, I was not immediately  aware that Senators Sullivan and Whitehouse were planning a second act,  so to speak, and I dearly appreciate being a part of the Save Our Seas  team. 

  I also want to thank Chairman Risch for supporting and advancing the  international components of this bill through the Foreign Relations  Committee, as well as all of the chairs and rankings who have already  been mentioned. 

  I think that advancing three component parts of the bill through all  of these respective committees, which is no small feat, and the 20  bipartisan cosponsors shows the Senate's broad support for action on  plastic waste. 

  New Jerseyans know all too well the threat of plastic pollution. Our  pristine beaches attract millions of people to the Jersey Shore each  year, and our coastal waters support everything from fishing and  recreation to the flow of trade, to our ports and harbors. No one wants  to swim in plastic or eat fish that fed on microplastic. That is why 25  New Jersey townships have passed local ordinances banning or phasing  down disposable plastic products, and  another 26 may soon join them. There is also legislation pending in the  New Jersey State Legislature to limit the proliferation of disposal  plastics in New Jersey's economy. 

  With 40 percent of Americans living in coastal communities, my  constituents back home are far from the only ones grappling with the  hazards of plastic pollution in our oceans. 

  There is no question we still have work to do. As our bill heads to  the House, I look forward to continuing these efforts with Senators  Whitehouse and Sullivan and our cosponsors as we engage House leaders  to act on the bill this year. 

  Again, thank you to my colleagues. It is good. I know it doesn't  always get the headlines. The essence of a good story seems to be  conflict not cooperation, but I am thrilled to be a part of cooperation  that could make a difference in the lives not just of our oceans but of  our families. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT