Foreign Policy


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, for over 3 years now, everyday  Americans, Members of this body, our diplomatic corps, and our allies  and adversaries alike have wondered whether there is any sort of  coherent strategy guiding the national security and foreign policy of  President Donald Trump. If the events of recent days are any  indication, the answer is a resounding no. 

  The Trump administration has no vision for how we might build a world  that is more stable, peaceful, and prosperous for future generations.  To be sure, the administration has some serious reports outlining  global challenges and nicely drafted statements proclaiming their  ``America First'' strategy. In practice, the President's erratic  leadership and failure to invest in the very institutions we need to  promote American national security have sowed chaos and increasingly  left America alone. Our Nation has faced great challenges before. Yet,  having served nearly three decades in Congress, I cannot recall a time  when so many of them were of our own making and as predictable as they  were avoidable. 

  Simply put, President Trump's foreign policy, like President Trump  himself, is completely shortsighted, self-interested, and  transactional. 

  The President's abandonment of our core values has already eroded  America's standing abroad. Near the end of the last administration, the  Gallup organization found that 48 percent of respondents in more than  100 countries worldwide had confidence in the United States. Today, it  has gone from 48 percent to--it hovers around 31 percent. Furthermore,  more people around the world likely trust--according to the poll--China  or Russia rather than the United States. 

  I know that national security is not a popularity contest, but the  erosion of America's standing in the world matters because it makes it  less safe for Americans. It undermines our diplomacy. It hinders  economic opportunity. It undercuts our ability to promote our values,  betraying our centuries-long vision of our Nation as a city on a hill. 

  Our Nation was founded on noble ideals. It is those ideals more than  our unrivaled economic strength and more than our unparalleled military  might that have rallied the world to our side--from the defeat of  fascism in Europe, to the rise of international institutions and  security partnerships, and to the fall of the Berlin Wall and beyond. 

  President Trump has squandered this precious resource of our values-- our ``soft power''--through actions that betray our ideals, abandon our  allies, and appease our enemies. Far from America First, this  administration is leaving America isolated, corrupted, and behind. We  see it again and again--from Ukraine, to Syria, to Iran and beyond.  

  Consider Russia. Even as our intelligence community and bipartisan  congressional reports point to ``incontrovertible'' proof of Russia's  interference in our 2016 elections and plans to do so this year in  2020, to this day, the President's own fragile ego still prevents him  from even acknowledging the threat, let alone standing up to continued  Russian aggression. 

  Turn to North Korea. Two years ago, the President said that he had  achieved a breakthrough and that we didn't have to worry about North  Korea anymore and we could sleep well at home. Yet, despite all the  made-for-TV moments, his poorly conceived and poorly executed effort  has left North Korea a greater threat in 2020. Under President Trump's  watch, North Korea has expanded its nuclear arsenal, successfully  tested its first intercontinental ballistic missile, and conducted its  most powerful nuclear testing. His administration has undercut our  critical defensive alliance with South Korea and Japan and walked away  from serious sanctions enforcement. 

  Nearby in China, the administration's efforts have failed to change  China's actions in the South China Sea, resolve the structural issues  at play in our trade relationship, or address its worsening human  rights and governance behavior--from the crackdown in Hong Kong, to the  oppression of the Uighurs, to China's growing economic and  technological influence, used to spy and oppress. 

  Turning to the Western Hemisphere, a year ago, the President rightly  denounced Maduro but misleadingly declared the success of his Venezuela  policy. Today, the President sits silently as millions of Venezuelans  fleeing a massive humanitarian crisis and the hundreds of thousands of  Venezuelans already in the United States remain in desperate need of  temporary protected status. 

  President Trump says he wants to confront the root causes of  migration. He says he wants to combat drug trafficking and the opioid  epidemic. Yet he has repeatedly weakened our counternarcotics, law  enforcement, and development operations in the Northern Triangle and  Mexico, while continuing to push for a border wall he promised the  American people Mexico would pay for. 

  The administration's abhorrent treatment of asylum seekers--from  separating children from their parents to placing people in cruel and  inhuman conditions--has only further weakened America's moral standard.  Likewise, President Trump's functional destruction of our Refugee  Resettlement Program and the slashing of refugee admissions to the  United States not only damage America's reputation as a beacon of hope  for vulnerable people around the world but deprive us of the  contributions refugees have always brought to our economy and our  communities. 

  We also face immense challenges like climate change. Yet, even as our  close ally Australia faces the most deadly conflagration, this  administration continues to deny a threat that is already costing  American taxpayers billions of dollars in the wake of increasingly  severe storms, fires, and floods. 

  Withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement was a gross abdication  of American leadership, one that has allowed China--yes, China--to  position itself as the world leader on clean energy. 

  The Trump administration has also ceded ground at the United Nations  to China and Russia. Recently, China beat us out for a leadership seat  at the Food and Agriculture Organization, while Russia won out support  for its cyber crime treaty. 

  While the administration may seek to explain away these losses on an  individual basis, this is, in fact, the steady drip, drip, drip of the  loss of American power and influence due to President Trump's abject  mismanagement. 

  Turn now to Africa. At a time when our allies, as well as adversaries  like Russia and China, are ramping up their engagement, the United  States is pulling back. Indeed, Secretary Pompeo has visited Kansas on  multiple occasions during his tenure, but he has yet to visit a single  sub-Saharan country. 

  Likewise, we see a complete absence of diplomatic strategies for  challenges across Africa, from preventing a return to conflict in South  Sudan, to supporting the democratic transition in Ethiopia, to curbing  terrorism in the Sahel. The recent tragic deaths of Americans in Kenya  demonstrate a lack of progress in weakening terrorist organizations  like al-Shabaab and Boko Haram. 

  Likewise, for a year, the administration failed to waive human  trafficking sanctions so that USAID could adequately respond to the  deadly Ebola epidemic in the Democratic Republic of Congo. 

  On human rights, the Trump administration's approach is, in one word,  abysmal. The administration supported the Saudi-led campaign in Yemen  amid credible reports of despicable war crimes. It stood silent on the  killing of Washington Post reporter Jamal Khashoggi at MBS's direction.  It has downplayed human rights and democratic backsliding in Honduras,  Guatemala, the Philippines, Burma, Turkey, and beyond. 

  Likewise, the Trump administration has rolled back the rights of  women and girls worldwide, from cutting off funding for lifesaving  maternal care they falsely claim promotes abortions to reinstating the  global gag rule. It has also set back the clock on equality and  protection for LGBTQ citizens in international instruments at the U.N.  and elsewhere. 

  I want to remind my colleagues why America must champion human  rights--not just because it is right, although it certainly is right,  but because democracy and respect for human freedom are the foundation  of a safer, better world for the American people to thrive in. 

  As the President abdicates our leadership and undermines the  institutions we worked decades to help build, we have witnessed attacks  on some of America's closest friends. President Trump's verbal  broadside against the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and South  Korea, just to mention a few--the latter during the ongoing nuclear  standoff with North Korea--are deeply regrettable and completely  counterproductive. This is not how America leads the world; this is how  America finds itself alone, isolated, and more vulnerable. 

  This administration has attacked the very idea of diplomacy. They  proposed enormous cuts to the State Department's budget, removed senior  diplomatic leaders with no replacements, and marginalized the State  Department's input on key decisions. 

  Finally, nowhere in the world is President Trump's reckless foreign  policy and total lack of strategy more painfully obvious than the  Middle East. 

  Let me be clear: I do not shed a tear for Qasem Soleimani. As a  commander of the IRGC Quds Force, he was responsible for the deaths of  hundreds of Americans and supporting terrorism throughout the Middle  East. Previous administrations kept tabs on Soleimani's whereabouts,  both Republican and Democratic alike, but they always chose not to act  against him because the decision was that the action against him--the  value of that was of less value than the consequences of retaliation  and long-term military action. 

  The President must come to Congress and present clear and compelling  intelligence as to why this strike against Soleimani was absolutely  necessary. What was the imminent threat Soleimani uniquely possessed?  We need to know if the threats we face have materially changed. 

  In the wake of all of its misleading statements, we must make clear  to the administration that the President by himself does not--does  not--have the authority to launch a war against Iran. 

  Let me send the President a message. Attack on cultural sites are war  crimes. They are war crimes. We observe international law not only  because it is right but because then we can demand other countries to  observe international law as well. 

  The consequences of President Trump's strike on Iranian Commander  Qasem Soleimani are unfolding as we speak. Already, the Iraqi  Parliament has called for an expulsion of American forces. Now there is  confusion about what U.S. policy is. Are we keeping troops to fight  ISIS? Are we going to start sanctions on Iraq? Confusion.  Contradiction. Chaos. Amid such confusion, the one thing that has taken  place for sure is that instead of our mission there to fight ISIS, we  are now having to recalibrate to use that mission to protect our own  forces there. What a reprieve ISIS gets.  

  Despite what the President may say, Iran is not a different country  than it was 2 years ago. Iranian-backed protesters just stormed our  Embassy. Previously, they were storming Iranian Embassies. The Iraqi  people were storming Iranian Embassies because of Iran's influence in  Iraq. Now they are out massively protesting against us.  

  A regime that continues to oppress its own people and its proxies now  has a solidified populous behind it. Soleimani's legacy, ultimately, is  that what he could not achieve in life, he may very well have achieved  in death--pushing the United States out of Iraq. 

  It is no secret that I did not support the Joint Comprehensive Plan  of Action, but let's be clear: Today, Iran is closer to a nuclear  breakout than when President Trump took office, and we have isolated  ourselves from the international alliance that we have built to  constrain Iran's ambitions. 

  Meanwhile, in Syria, the President's greenlight for Turkey's  incursion has weakened American interest in the region, allowed Russia  to grow its influence, and opened the door for ISIS to reconstitute. 

  By turning our backs on the Kurds, we signaled to the world that we  will abandon our allies on the battlefield. And while the President  promised to stop endless wars in the Middle East, over the weekend,  thousands of military family members are unexpectedly saying goodbye as  their loved ones receive orders to do just the opposite. 

  President Trump has not brought the American people a more peaceful,  a more stable, and a more prosperous world. On the contrary, the  President has brought us closer to war, closer to facing a nuclear- armed Iran, closer to facing an existential threat to Israel, and  closer to witnessing a destabilizing arms race and greater conflict in  the entire Middle East region, fueled by emboldened Iranian proxy  forces. 

  A show of strength with no strategy in place is no show of strength  at all. 

  President Trump spent the better part of 3 years on the golf course,  eviscerating the clear lines between a President's responsibilities to  the American people and his devotion to his own wallet. The President  and his family continue to put their business interests over America's  interests. 

  The President has flouted the Constitution's emoluments clause and  shredded decades of ethical norms by refusing to divest himself from  the Trump Organization. He and his family maintain unprecedented  business interests in real estate projects in about 20 foreign  countries that undoubtedly entangle him with foreign governments  whenever local cooperation or financing is needed. It is clear that  that creates a conflict that does not put the Nation's interests first. 

  He operates with no moral compass. Indeed, the President's pursuit of  his own personal profit at the expense of America's national security  interests in Ukraine led to his impeachment by the House of  Representatives. 

  I urge my colleagues to remember why America's conduct on the world  stage matters, why our values matter, and why our leadership matters. 

  We strive to create a more peaceful and a more stable world so that  we can protect the security of Americans at home, so that we can create  greater prosperity and economic opportunity for our people, and, at the  end of the day, avoid at all costs a need to send our sons and  daughters to war. 

  Every President faces new threats that challenge our quest for this  brighter future. We have worked hard to create institutions and provide  resources to help every administration navigate this increasingly  complex world. We pray that the moral character of every President  provides them with the foresight and judgment necessary to protect  American security and our strategic interests when it matters the most.  Instead, President Trump has taken difficult security challenges and  made them even harder to resolve. That is why Congress's role in  shaping and advancing U.S. foreign policy has never mattered more. That  is why I will continue to advance strategic legislation from Turkey to  climate change, to new Ukraine support to conduct oversight, and to  speak on behalf of the American people and the values and norms that  define us and our place in this complicated world. 

  Here in the Senate, we have an obligation. We cannot cynically look  the other way or be silent or enable that which we know to be wrong,  risky, and morally reprehensible. History will not judge us kindly if  we do. I, for one, will not stand idly by and be judged that way. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT