H. Con. Res. 83


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, H. Con. Res. 83 directs the President to  terminate the use of U.S. Armed Forces to engage in hostilities against  Iran, unless Congress has authorized the use of military force against  Iran or such use is necessary to defend against an imminent armed  attack. H. Con. Res. 83 was agreed to in the House of Representatives  on January 9, 2020 and received in the Senate and referred to the  Senate Committee on Foreign Relations on January 13, 2020. 

  The War Powers Resolution, PL 93-148, has special procedures  underscoring the privileged nature of a concurrent resolution like H.  Con. Res. 83. Section 1546(c) of the War Powers Resolution requires  that once a privileged concurrent resolution such as H. Con. Res. 83  has been passed by the House, it must be referred to the Senate Foreign  Relations Committee, and ``shall be reported out by such committee  together with its recommendations within fifteen calendar days.''  Fifteen calendar  days from January 13 is today, January 28, 2020. Under the law, the  concurrent resolution may be reported out with a favorable or  unfavorable recommendation, or no recommendation at all, but it must be  reported out. 

  Unfortunately, it appears that the Senate Foreign Relations Committee  majority leadership has decided to allow the 15 calendar days to lapse  without taking action on H. Con. Res. 83. This failure to act leaves a  statutory obligation unfulfilled. 

  I understand that the chairman is basing this inaction primarily on  the contention that a concurrent resolution under 50 U.S.C. 1544(c) may  be privileged only if it uses the word ``remove'' or the phrase  ``removal of United States Armed Forces engaged in hostilities,''  rather than ``terminate'' or ``terminate the use of United States Armed  Forces to engage in hostilities'' as used in H. Con. Res. 83. The  argument appears to be that the use of ``removed'' in 1544(c) of the  War Powers Resolution eliminates the possibility of privilege if any  other terminology is used, regardless of functional equivalency. This  argument suggests that ``removal'' is a term of art required for  privilege. 

  The approach is unjustifiably restrictive. Treating ``removal'' as a  term of art required for privilege is inconsistent with the overarching  purpose of the War Powers Resolution and without support in either the  statutory framework or legislative history. It also undermines Senate  and congressional prerogatives. 

  The purpose of the War Powers Resolution was for Congress to  reconfirm and reassert its constitutional powers over ``undeclared''  wars. The availability of a privileged and binding resolution to force  a President to stop using U.S. Armed Forces in hostilities is central  to that purpose. Limiting such privilege to a single phrase or word is  inconsistent with this reassertion of congressional powers and is  neither a feature of the statute nor its legislative history. 

  The statutory framework of the War Powers Resolution does not support  the assertion that ``removal'' or ``removal from hostilities'' are  terms of art that are required for and exclusive to the availability of  privilege. To the contrary, those terms are not defined in law; nor is  there any reference in the statute to a military or other usage of  those phrases to suggest that they are terms of art. 

  The absence of statutorily mandated language for privilege in the War  Powers Resolution directly contrasts with many other statutes in which  Congress expressly requires specific language for privilege to attach.  For example, in contrast to the War Powers Resolution, section 130(f)  of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, PL 83-703, section 101 of the Arms  Export Control Act, PL 90-629, and section 216(c) of the Countering  America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, PL 115-44 all require  specific text for privileged resolutions and provide that text in  quotations in the statute. Clearly, as evidenced by laws enacted before  and after the War Powers Resolution, Congress knows how to require the  use of unique, statutorily mandated language for privilege to apply.  The fact that it did not do so in the War Powers Resolution  demonstrates that there was no intent to limit privilege to use of a  single word or phrase. 

  Further, the legislative record of the War Powers Resolution does not  support the assertion that there is an exclusive connection between the  use of ``removal'' and the availability of privilege. To the contrary,  the record indicates that ``remove'' and ``terminate'' were used  synonymously. The record is replete with the interchangeable usage of  synonymous terms consistent with a cessation of the use of U.S. forces  in hostilities. For example, House Report 93-287 uses no less than  seven terms in this regard, including ``conclude,'' ``disengage,''  ``remove,'' ``terminate,'' ``abandon such action,'' and ``stop.'' In  fact, the conferees even used ``terminate'' to describe the privileged  resolution envisioned in 1544(c), clearly demonstrating that these  terms were considered to be functionally equivalent for purposes of War  Powers. ``The House joint resolution provided that use of United States  Armed Forces by the President without a declaration of war or specific  statutory authorization could be terminated by Congress through the use  of a concurrent resolution. The Senate amendment provided for such  termination by a bill or joint resolution.'' H. Rept. 93-547,  Conference Report to H.J. Res. 542. This legislative history, in tandem  with a statutory construct that does not require a term of art,  demonstrates that the insistence on such a term for privilege is  misguided. 

  Finally, strictly limiting privilege to a resolution that uses  ``remove'' is inconsistent with Senate and congressional perogatives.  The purpose of the War Powers Resolution--reasserting the power of  Congress over undeclared wars--can be vindicated only if the executive  branch and its supporters in the Senate cannot use committee or floor  procedure to bottle up a resolution consistent with both the purpose  and construct of the War Powers Resolution. Reading into the statute a  requirement for specific terminology where no such requirement exists  unjustifiably restricts Senate action and limits the reassertion of  congressional authority over War Powers. 

  For the reasons stated above, I urge the chairman to immediately take  the necessary steps to ensure full compliance with the law.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT