Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I come to the floor today with a sense  of urgency. Our next national election is a little more than 8 months  away. We know from public reporting that Russia is back to its 2016  playbook and working to interfere again. What some called a political  Pearl Harbor in 2016 is in the process of happening again. It is  happening to us again. 

  I notice that every Member of the Senate has Washington's Farewell  Address. It is an annual ritual in which that address is read by  Members. It is interesting, in the introduction, that one of the things  Washington warned about is interference by foreign powers in the  Nation's domestic affairs; George Washington, President, one of the  Founders of our country, wrote back then about the interference of  foreign powers in our domestic affairs. 

  This isn't about the Kremlin helping Donald Trump, although we know  that was their preference the last time. But it has become increasingly  clear that at least at this point, chaos is the true goal. We haven't  seen anything that may have changed what their preference was 4 years  ago. Nothing that the President has done should be a reason for them  not to want to see him be reelected again. But regardless of whether  that is or is not the case, chaos is part of their goal. Rendering our  democracy incapable of standing up to bullies abroad is their goal. 

  What is this administration's response? Is it paralysis? No, it is  anything but. This administration now appears to be engaged in a  proactive strategy to deny this body access to information on this  interference. With the appointment of Ric Grenell to serve as Acting  Director of National Intelligence, the administration is sending a  clear message to the American people, to the Congress, and to  governments around the world that our intelligence services are now  political commodities to be manipulated and used to gain  electoral advantage. Amid all of the oversight challenges we face with  this administration, we will likely look back on this decision as  perhaps one of the most consequential and most damaging to our  democratic institutions, and that is saying a lot about this White  House.  

  These reports of Russian interference do not come as a surprise. They  should not find us flatfooted. Several of us have introduced sanctions  legislation that would deter such Russian behavior from happening. The  DASKA bill that I introduced with Senator Graham had broad bipartisan  support and passed out of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with a  strong bipartisan vote and is waiting on the Senate floor for action. 

  What are we waiting for? The election is 8 months away. What are we  waiting for? We are waiting for responsible Senators to defend our  democracy, waiting for a vote. Yet it sits here, and it is an outrage. 

  Inaction at this very precarious stage in our democratic story  violates the very oath that Members swore to uphold upon their  election. Inaction by this body at this time is truly unimaginable. Yet  here we are with this lack of will to stand up for our national  security, this lack of will to defend our  democratic institutions, this lack of will to fulfill the oath to our  country. History will not judge well the Senate in this hour. 

  Only Americans should decide American elections--no one else, no  foreign power, no foreign player, no foreign individual. Only Americans  should decide American elections. I think that is a pretty simple  proposition, but it is a powerful one. 

  Our legislation and others are not the only tools available to the  President. If he decided to stand up for our democratic institutions,  existing CAATSA legislation includes several sanction mandates already  on the books that could be used. Obama and Trump era Executive orders  are sitting on the shelf, gathering dust. Both could be employed right  this minute to impose crippling sanctions on Russia to send a clear  message: Do not mess with our elections or there are serious  consequences. 

  But what is the message from this White House in response to public  reporting that Russia is again interfering? Is it following the laws  that Congress has passed, full implementation of CAATSA, crippling  sanctions on the Kremlin, full activation of all the powers involved  and Executive orders? No, no. Instead, the President decided to fire  the guy who delivered the news to Congress and replace him with a  political sycophant. This would be like FDR dismissing the  congressional declaration of war after Pearl Harbor and firing members  of his staff who reported on the Japanese attack. It is pretty  astounding. 

  Never before have we had a President so transparently willing to bow  down to a foreign foe, unwilling to challenge in the collective  national interest and security of the United States, in the collective  democracy of our country. The core of our democracy is citizen  participation in casting a vote to decide who governs them, from the  President to the Congress, to local States and mayors. When that is  eroded by the engagement of a foreign government--a foreign government  that is nefarious in its activities and consequential in its actions-- it undermines the very essence of our democracy. 

  I don't care who they are helping. They are supposedly helping,  according to the press reports, Senator Sanders as well. That is wrong.  I don't want them helping anybody in our country. I don't want them  engaged on behalf of anyone in our country. 

  Never before have I seen a President unwilling to challenge Putin and  Russia. Never before have I seen a President so willing to sacrifice  national security for his own political gain. And every single Member  in this body who does not stand up and hold him to account and try to  make sure that we pass legislation and challenge the President to  ultimately sign it and enact it and to pursue the law as it is already  on the books in terms of CAATSA, to pursue the Executive order powers  that exist today--which would send an incredibly powerful message if  invoked--is complicit. We will have to bear the judgment of history. I  expect the judgment will be rather harsh. 

  For myself, I am going to do everything possible to ensure that our  elections are sacrosanct and that they do not have the interference of  a foreign power. I do not want to be among those whom history is going  to judge very harshly for being silent in the face of an invasion of  information and efforts to undermine our elections. In any other  context, we would consider it a war. I consider it no less. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT