Letter to the Hon. Alex Azar, Secretary of Health and Human Services and to the Hon. Seema Verma, Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services - Cortez Masto Urges Top Health Officials to Swiftly Distribute Emergency Covid-19 Funds to Hospitals Serving Low-Income, Vulnerable Populations


Dear Secretary Azar and Administrator Verma,We write to you today to ask that you consider the economic impact on hospitals that serve adisproportionate number of Medicaid and low-income patients as you distribute futurecongressionally appropriated COVID-19 related funding. We sincerely appreciate the fundingthat has reached our states to date, and we also appreciate the responsiveness of your staff whenaddressing issues related to the distribution of initial tranches of funding. However, we remainconcerned that, to date, the allocations have not sufficiently targeted providers tasked with caringfor vulnerable populations. As such, as you distribute the remaining funding in the Public Healthand Social Services Emergency Fund, we respectfully request you consider a separate, targeteddistribution of funding for health providers who make up the health care safety net in our states.In the wake of the COVID-19 crisis, Congress acted swiftly to provide emergency funding forhospitals and health providers. Specifically, Congress provided $100 billion for the PublicHealth and Social Services Emergency Fund (PHSSEF) under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, andEconomic Security (CARES) Act (P.L. 116-136), as well as an additional $75 billion under thePaycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act (P.L. 116-139). In our statesand across the country, Medicaid providers are on the frontlines of this pandemic as they oftenare under more normal circumstances. As such, Congress explicitly articulated in the CARESAct that PHSSEF eligible health care providers include "Medicare or Medicaid enrolledsuppliers and providers."To date, the distribution methodology used by the Department of Health and Human Services(HHS) has not sufficiently addressed the needs of hospitals and health providers thatdisproportionately serve Medicaid and low-income patients. We appreciate the urgency withwhich HHS acted to make initial funding distributions and the continued efforts to address theneeds of health care providers impacted by COVID-19. However, the decision to distribute 2funding based on net patient service revenue in the $50 billion general distribution, combinedwith the $2 billion in targeted funding for disproportionate share hospitals, did not adequatelycapture the financial strain safety net providers face in the current environment.The safety net hospitals in our states and across the country have minimal privately insuredpatient populations, and they overwhelmingly rely on government payers. On a pre-pandemicbasis, these providers face high-uncompensated care costs and bring in significantly lowerrevenue than other hospitals. COVID-19 has severely exacerbated these disparities. We areconcerned about the future financially viability of our hospitals that help care for the sickest,lowest-income, and costliest patients. These hospitals stand at the frontlines of our health caresystem for many of our disadvantaged communities and operate on razor thin margins under thebest of circumstances.Moreover, Medicaid recipients and low-income populations face particular health challenges,due to underlying health conditions and barriers to accessing care. This makes them all the moresusceptible to dangerous outcomes during a pandemic. A report recently released found that 35percent of non-elderly adults with household incomes below $15,000 are at increased risk ofserious illness if infected with coronavirus, compared to just 16 percent of adults with householdincomes greater than $50,000.1 If we are to implement a successful comprehensive nationalresponse to COVID-19, we cannot leave anyone behind. Our safety net hospitals currently lackthe funding they need to effectively treat the nation's most vulnerable families and individuals.We fully appreciate the challenges involved in quickly and equitably distributing funding tohealth providers, however we urge you to consider a separate, targeted distribution of fundingthat prioritizes the particular financial strain facing our hospitals that serve a disproportionatenumber of Medicaid and low-income patients.We thank you for your consideration of our request, and we look forward to your response.