Letter to the Hon. Betsy DeVos, Secretary of Education - Watson Coleman Leads New Jersey Delegation Request for Expedited Funds to Community Colleges


Dear Secretary DeVos:

We write to follow up with you on the status of disbursing funds appropriated under theCoronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act to help institutions of highereducation as they continue to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. We understand that since theCARES Act was enacted on March 27, 2020, the staff at the Department of Education has beenworking diligently to distribute funds to eligible institutions. However, the delay in wheninstitutions are actually able to drawdown funds has made it particularly difficult for students atcommunity colleges. This is why we hope to work with you to expeditiously distribute funds tostudents and campuses.

With the second most confirmed COVID-19 cases in the nation, it is clear that New Jersey studentshave an immediate need for assistance. This need is likely even greater among students atcommunity colleges as they have on average, the lowest incomes of higher education students.

While colleges and universities across the country are experiencing significant difficulties causedby the ongoing pandemic, these challenges are exacerbated for community colleges, which tend tohave fewer resources, but needier students. Further, they may be less familiar with complexprocesses and systems within the Department.

The Department must act swiftly to streamline the administrative hurdles that institutions mustpass to access funds available so that they can continue to operate and support students whileresponding to this ongoing crisis. We understand that Department has tried to establish guidancethat includes flexibility and clarity. Given the disruptions this pandemic has caused, we hope thatyou will prioritize flexibility, expediency, along with accountability, that is consistent withlanguage in the CARES Act. 

Thank you for your attention to this pressing matter. We look forward to working with you toensure that all students in New Jersey, and particularly community college students, are supported