Letter to the Hon. Donald J. Trump, President of the United States - Menendez, Pascrell Lead NJ Delegation's Call for Trump to Approve State's Request to Fund Quarantine Housing for COVID-19 Patients


Dear Mr. President:

We write to urge you to approve Governor Phil Murphy's request for non-congregate sheltering to be reimbursed under Category B of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Public Assistance program. Non-congregate sheltering is critical to ensure individuals who were exposed to, are symptomatic of, or have tested positive for COVID-19 can comply with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) isolation guidance. Swift approval of our state's request is an important step in our fight against COVID-19.

Essential workers on the front line, such as healthcare providers and emergency first responders along with vulnerable populations like those experiencing homelessness, are at high risk of being infected with COVID-19. To mitigate the spread and continue to flatten the curve, we need to take aggressive actions to ensure those who are likely infected and contagious can be quarantined. Our hospitals and health care system are stretched to capacity, and the state needs additional resources to maintain effective quarantining for non-hospitalized patients. Absent a non-congregate sheltering program, these individuals can strain hospital resources essential to saving lives and potentially expose others in their homes and communities to the dangers of this virus. It is essential to establish a non-congregate housing program in our state to make more hospital space available and reduce the spread of COVID-19.

New Jersey has the second highest number of COVID-19 cases in the nation and our infection rate has yet to peak. We need additional support from the federal government to reduce the strains on our hospital systems and save lives.

Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We appreciate your time and consideration of our request.