Senate Resolution 567--Commending Career Professionals At the Department of State for Their Extensive Efforts to Repatriate United States Citizens and Legal Permanent Residents During the Covid-19 Pandemic


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, today I rise to introduce a resolution  with Senator Risch, as well as other colleagues, to thank countless  State Department career officials for their extensive efforts to bring  home over 78,000 United States citizens and legal permanent residents  during the COVID-19 pandemic. This pandemic caused an unprecedented  disruption in global travel, leaving tens of thousands of United States  citizens and legal permanent residents stranded overseas with no direct  way to return to the United States. While we will have ample  opportunity in the future to examine and better understand the  decisions made by senior leadership at the Department of State at the  onset of the COVID-19 crisis that could have allowed the United States  to more effectively respond to this pandemic, including to identify and  mitigate repatriation challenges, I will note that once the Department  recognized the enormity of the repatriation crisis, it's career  professionals sprung into action and, characteristically, rose to meet  the challenge and serve their nation with distinction. 

  Staying true to the Department's most fundamental mission, to protect  U.S. citizens abroad, State Department officers, family members, and  local employees faced great personal risk and long hours to assist U.S.  citizens during a time of dire need and stress. For that, my colleagues  and I are tremendously grateful. We commend the extraordinary work done  by the Repatriation Task Force, embassy and consulate staff around the  world, and the United States Transportation Command. Their efforts  resulted in the repatriation of over 78,000 Americans on 833 flights  originating from 128 countries and territories in just an 18-week  period. I would also like to extend my deepest thanks to Principal  Deputy Assistant Secretary Ian Brownlee and Deputy Assistant Secretary  Hugo Yon for their exemplary leadership of and contribution to the  Repatriation Task Force, as well as to Wendy Kennedy for her work with  the Bureau of Legislative Affairs. Furthermore, I would like to thank  Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Julie Chung, Deputy Assistant  Secretary Kevin O'Reilly, Consul General Dana Deree (Honduras), Consul  General William Bent (El Salvador), Consul General John Barrett  (Recife), Deputy Chief of Mission Denison Offutt (Lima), Director for  Central America Affairs Marta Youth, and Country Consular Coordinator  Alexander Delorey (Quito) for their leadership in facilitating the  repatriation of thousands of Americans citizens from countries in the  Western hemisphere. I recognize that in calling out these individuals  who were especially helpful to me and to my office that I run the risk  of not naming the tens, if not hundreds of others who worked just as  hard and contributed just as much; they have my thanks as well. 

  I, along with my colleagues, are profoundly grateful to the  Department of State personnel who have worked tirelessly these past few  months, who have served the United States above and beyond the call of  duty, and who have helped their fellow citizen in a time of dire need.  I urge the Department to continue its good work and to remain ready to  bring home American citizens and legal permanent residents as the  COVID-19 pandemic persists.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT