SMART Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, as our Nation grapples with the COVID- 19 pandemic, our State, county, and municipal governments have been on  the frontlines taking a leading role in responding to this crisis. As a  result, they have been squeezed on both sides of the ledger, spending  billions of dollars in unforeseen costs on emergency response while  watching as revenues dry up due to necessary stay-at-home orders and  the closure of non-essential businesses. 

  The emergency protective measures have been effective at flattening  the curve and have no doubt saved thousands of lives, but they also  came with a cost. All revenue sources are down. Sales tax revenue has  plummeted with businesses closed. Highway trust funds won't have the  resources to do basic road maintenance. Downtown parking meters are  going empty due to people observing social distancing. Building permits  and municipal court fees have fallen. 

  Unless we act soon, we will see mass layoffs, devastating tax  increases, and a breakdown in public safety and essential services.  Already, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that State and local  governments laid off 1 million public employees in April. This  challenge is true for every State, county, city, and town in the  country. 

  The State Municipal Assistance for Response and Transition, or SMART  Act, is the bold, bipartisan, and commonsense solution we need to give  our communities a fighting chance and stop the economy from free- falling. It provides $500 billion in flexible Federal dollars that will  help our communities dramatically expand the testing capacity and  contact tracing we need to contain the virus--a necessary step in  restoring consumer confidence and to restart the economy. It will help  stave off massive layoffs, tax hikes, and deep, painful cuts to  essential services. It will keep our police officers, firefighters,  public health workers, teachers, and other essential employees on the  job during this critical time, because it is not just about defeating  COVID-19; we still need to keep our streets safe, our children  learning, the trash picked up, the roads maintained, and the buses and  trains running on time. 

  I hear some of my colleagues speak from this floor, calling not for  unity but for division. They callously ignore the pleas for help from  their fellow Americans, comforted by the selfish but mistaken belief  that their communities are immune to the fiscal Armageddon facing our  communities. Let me be clear. When your revenues drop 30 percent  overnight, it really doesn't matter how fiscally responsible or  conservative your State budget is; no one can prepare for that. 

  Moody's just reported that States like Ohio and Arizona are facing  the fiscal shock of losing 20 percent of their entire budget, and West  Virginia, 40 percent. This is not a red State or blue State issue; this  is a red, white, and blue issue. It is an American priority. 

  In December of 1862, during the height of the Civil War, President  Lincoln wrote the following message to Congress: ``In times like the  present, men should utter nothing for which they would not willingly be  responsible through time and eternity.'' 

  I believe that history will look kindly upon those who stood for  unity and compromise over demagoguery, those who put the well-being of  the country over scoring partisan points, those who stuck out their  necks and took a political risk for no other reason than it was the  right thing to do. 

  I am proud of the bipartisan coalition we have built, and I want to  thank each of my colleagues for their work and their commitment to  rebuilding our communities--Senator Cassidy, who has led this effort  with me, Senator Hyde-Smith; Senator Manchin, Senator Collins, and my  partner in New Jersey, Senator Booker. 

  With that, I turn to my friend from Louisiana, the distinguished  Senator who exemplifies these qualities and has been an incredible  partner in crafting this legislation and building this coalition over  the past month. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT