War Powers Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, on January 28, 2020, I submitted a  statement for the Record on H. Con. Res. 83, which directs the  President to terminate the use of U.S. Armed Forces to engage in  hostilities against Iran. 

  H. Con. Res. 83 was passed by the House of Representatives on January  9, 2020, and received in the Senate and referred to the Committee on  Foreign Relations on January 13, 2020. Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1546(c),  H. Con. Res. 83 should have been treated as a privileged resolution and  reported out of the committee on January 28. 

  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee majority leadership opted not  to hold a committee debate or vote on H. Con. Res. 83. As I explained  in my statement of January 28, I understand that this decision was  based primarily on the view that a concurrent resolution, under the War  Powers Resolution, may be privileged only if it uses the word  ``remove'' or the phrase ``removal of United States Armed Forces  engaged in hostilities,'' rather than ``terminate'' or ``terminate the  use of United States Armed Forces to engage in hostilities,'' as used  in H. Con. Res. 83. As I will explain, however, this view is not  consistent with Senate precedent. 

  On February 13, 2020, the Senate passed S.J. Res. 68. This resolution  contains identical operative language to H. Con. Res. 83, directing the  President to ``terminate'' the use of U.S. Armed Forces for hostilities  against Iran. The very fact that S.J. Res. 68 was considered in the  Senate on a privileged and expedited basis clarified that there are no  magic words required for privilege under the War Powers Resolution, and  that the use of ``terminate'' qualifies for such privilege. As a  result, it is clear that H. Con. Res. 83 should have been accorded  privileged status and, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1546(c), should have been  reported out of committee and put up for a Senate vote. 

  Fortunately, the Senate prerogatives under the War Powers Resolution  were vindicated by the debate, privileged consideration, and vote on  S.J. Res. 68. As such and in light of the identical purpose and  operative texts of the Senate joint resolution and the House concurrent  resolution, there is no need at this point for a second, identical  debate to occur either in the committee or on the Senate floor. In  other words, inaction on H. Con. Res. 83 is harmless. 

  Both Chambers of Congress have made their views and the views of the  American people with regard to U.S. hostilities against Iran quite  clear. I hope President Trump and his national security staff abide by  this message.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT