Women Political Prisoners


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, on International Women's Day, we  celebrated women and girls around the globe for their tremendous  contributions to our communities, our countries, and the world. From  Albania to Zimbabwe, women face enormous risks to pursue progress in  defiance of attitudes, policies, and actions that treat them as second- class citizens. Too often, these women are punished for their courage.  As this year marks the 25th anniversary of the United Nations' adoption  of the Beijing Declaration on the equal rights of women, we reaffirm  our commitment to achieving women's empowerment and equal status  throughout the world. 

  Today, I want to highlight 25 women who have risked their lives,  withstood torture, and been unjustly detained for fighting for human  rights, democracy, a free and fair press, and the rights of vulnerable  LGBT populations, as well as safeguarding their culture and the  environment. The repressive responses of their respective governments  speaks to the power these women command, the implications of their  cause, and the movements they inspire. 

  In Russia, President Putin's government utilizes politically  motivated imprisonment to bolster its power by cracking down on  journalists, human rights advocates, religious minorities, Ukrainian  citizens, and civil society advocates. Yulia Tsetkova is the latest  target of the authorities' long-running campaign against LGBT  activists. Tsetkova has been placed on house arrest and faces years of  imprisonment for her creative work at a youth amateur theater which the  state has labeled ``homosexual propaganda,'' for drawings described as  criminal ``pornography'' and for administrating two LGBT-themed groups  on social media deemed'' gay propaganda.') 

  The Chinese Communist Party has waged a powerful campaign to suppress  vibrant ethnic minority communities and political dissent. The  government has brutally cracked down in Xinjiang, where it has  extrajudicially interned and subjected more than 1 million Uyghurs and  other ethnic minorities to forced labor, torture, and abuse. Rahile  Dawut, a Xinjiang University professor who researched and documented  traditional Uyghur culture, disappeared in December 2017. Sanubar  Tursun, a renowned Uyghur singer, disappeared in November 2018, shortly  before she was scheduled to perform in France. We will not forget their  names nor their work. 

  The Chinese Communist party has also targeted Tibetans for  celebrating their heritage. In late 2015, officials detained at least  eight Tibetans accused of organizing observances of the Dalai Lama's  80th birthday. Those detained included Bonkho Kyi, who had organized a  public picnic to celebrate the occasion. Kyi was sentenced to 7 years'  imprisonment, although details of the criminal charges remain  unavailable. 

  In Iran, human rights defenders have been steadfast in their advocacy  despite repeated arrest and abuse by authorities. Nasrin Sotoudeh has  devoted her life to advocating for human rights in Iran, speaking out  against the death penalty and laws forcing women to wear hijabs.  Sotoudeh was rearrested in June 2018 for defending women protestors  against the forced hijab and faces 38 years in prison and 148 lashes.  Atena Daemi, also a lifelong human rights activist, is serving a 7-year  prison sentence for handing out anti-death penalty leaflets. She has  been on hunger strike twice and is in dire need of medical attention  due to dizziness and numbness. Narges Mohammadi, vice president of the  Centre for Human Rights Defenders in Iran, has been imprisoned since  May 2015 and is serving a 16-year sentence. Mohammadi is critically ill  with pulmonary embolism and a neurological disorder resulting in  seizures and temporary partial paralysis. 

  Iranian authorities have also recently arrested and imprisoned  environmentalists. Niloufar Bayani, a McGill University-graduate,  worked for the United Nations Environment Programme and, most recently,  the Persian Wildlife Heritage Foundation. She was arrested along with  several coworkers, including Sepideh Kashami, on charges of espionage.  Multiple government bodies have found no evidence suggesting the  environmentalists detained were spies. While detained, Bayani has  reportedly suffered from torture and threats of sexual assault. 

  Governments around the world are also attacking the free press and  targeting journalists, particularly those who speak truth to power and  expose the failures of those very governments.  Many women journalists have been targeted and unjustly detained. In  particular, the escalating use of criminal charges of ``false news'' or  ``fake news'' to imprison journalists and activists is alarming.  Certainly, these incitements of ``fake news'' echo President Trump and  his administration's regressive rhetoric and attacks on the press and  democratic values. 

  As of December 2019, Turkey was the world's second worst jailer of  journalists with 47 in prison, coming in close second to China with 48.  President Erdogan has cracked down on independent criticism by  shuttering more than 100 news outlets and jailing dozens of  journalists. Editor Hatice Duman was imprisoned in 2003 and is serving  a life sentence based on charges of propaganda and being a member of a  banned group. Duman was the owner and news editor of the socialist  weekly ``Atilim,'' which had opposed President Erdogan's policies. She  was convicted based on authorities' claim of her attendance at a  Marxist-Leninist Communist Party demonstration and the testimony of  confidential witnesses. Duman's husband later said the police  threatened sexual violence against his family if he did not testify  against his wife. Aysenur Parildak and Hanim Busra Erdal, two  journalists for ``Zaman,'' are both serving sentences for terrorism- related offenses based on claims that ``Zaman'' had ties to Fethulaah  Gulen. Sadiye Eser, a reporter for the pro-Kurdish ``Mezopotamya News  Agency,'' has also been detained by police since November 2019 on  politically motivated charges of membership of a terrorist  organization. 

  In Egypt, President Sisi has attempted to quash dissent and  consolidate control by wrongfully imprisoning human rights defenders.  Mahienour el-Masry, a human rights lawyer, has spent her career  organizing peaceful protests, advocating for political prisoners, and  denouncing human rights violations. She was arrested in September 2019  following a wave of protests calling for President Sisi's resignation  and charged with collaborating with a terrorist organization, spreading  ``false news,'' and using social media to publish false rumors. Esraa  Abdel Fattah, a human rights activist and reporter for the banned  ``Tahrir News,'' was arrested on charges of spreading ``false news,''  membership in a banned group, and abuse of social media networks in  October 2019. Abdel Fattah was reportedly beaten, hung from handcuffs  for hours, and choked with her clothes while interrogated.  

  In Burundi, authorities have cracked down on free expression in  anticipation of the country's 2020 elections. Christine Kamikazi and  Agnes Ndirubusa, journalists at Burundi's last remaining independent  newspaper ``Iwacu,'' were arrested and convicted on charges of  attempting threat against state security by collaborating with the  rebel group RED-Tabara. Kamikazi and Ndirubusa were traveling with two  colleagues to report on in-fighting between Burundian security forces  and RED-Tabara when they were arrested. They were convicted despite the  fact that ``Iwacu'' had informed authorities of their plan to travel to  the area for reporting and the fact that the RED-Tabara attack had  already occurred before their travels to the region. 

  Finally, a year ago today, I highlighted 14 women political prisoners  in a statement marking International Women's Day. Of those 14, 8 remain  in detention today. These include Saudi women's rights and human rights  activists Loujain al-Hathloul, Nassima al-Sada, Samar Badawi, Nouf  Abdulaziz, and Maya'a al-Zahrani; Senator Leila de Lima, detained for  her criticism of extrajudicial killings in the Philippines; Guligeina  Tashimaimaiti, a Uyghur PhD student detained in China; and Aster  Fissehatsion, a political dissident held incommunicado without charge  nor trial since 2001 in Eritrea. 

  In Egypt, Russia, China, Iran, Turkey, Burundi, Saudi Arabia, the  Philippines, and Eritrea, these women threatened by a repressive  government, abusive authorities, and critical risks to their health are  advocating for the betterment of their entire communities. Sadly, these  25 women highlighted today only represent a small fraction of countless  women and girls unjustly detained and imprisoned. 

  On this International Women's Day, we reflect on the remarkable  achievements of women and the work that remains to be done by all of us  to reach gender parity. The women political prisoners we have  highlighted today serve as role models championing human rights,  democracy, cultural tolerance, and environmental preservation. Their  detention should embolden the rest of us to take up their causes in  their absence. I call on governments unjustly detaining women for  exercising their fundamental rights to immediately release these  political prisoners. We will not forget these women, what they have  fought for, and what they have sacrificed for all of us as a result.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT