World Press Freedom Day


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, freedom of the press is a fundamental  human right, a foundational pillar of democracy, and an indispensable  check on authoritarian overreach. Over the past months, as we have  collectively come to appreciate a new understanding of ``essential  workers,'' we have witnessed once again how essential the work  journalists do is to maintaining our democracy. From Wuhan, China, to  conflict zones in Venezuela, to cities and towns in the United States,  journalists are risking their lives to report, investigate, and keep  people informed on the COVID-19 pandemic. Unfortunately, responses to  this global crisis have also reminds us that press freedom is under  assault across the globe, including in the United States. Fearful of  negative coverage of their capacity to protect their citizens and  address a global health crisis, autocrats and other governmental  figures around the world have focused their attention on concealing  information. As journalists fight to advance truth and objectivity  under dire circumstances, far too many governments have responded with  verbal attacks and prison sentences. Today, we applaud the work and the  courage of all those involved in bringing stories from around the world  to our fingertips. 

  Amidst the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, countries across the  world from Algeria to Zimbabwe have imposed restrictions and threatened  journalists for their work. As they do when credible, reliable, and  timely information is an essential commodity, journalists have  persisted. 

  In China, in an effort to educate his community and the world about  its potential threat, Chen Qiushi documented the impacts of the COVID- 19 outbreak in Wuhan, China, in dozens of videos online. On February 6,  2020, Chen's family and friends lost contact with him, and he is  presumed to have been disappeared by the CCP. 

  In Niger, journalist Kaka Touda Mamne Goni reported on a suspected  COVID-19 case, was arrested by police on March 5, 2020, and faces up to  3 years in prison on charges of ``dissemination of data likely to  disturb the public order.'' 

  In Venezuela, a group of masked police agents detained freelance  journalist Darvinson Rojas on March 21, 2020, and interrogated Rojas  about his reporting on COVID-19 cases in the state of Miranda. Rojas  remains in detention. 

  While the COVID-19 pandemic has spurred new restrictions and  harassment, these stories of abuse and resilience are nothing new in  the field of journalism. Since 1992, the Committee to Project  Journalists has reported 1,369 journalists killed around the world,  including at least 25 killed in 2019. Last year also represented the  14th year in a row that Freedom House has noted a global decline in  press freedom. As of April 20, 2020, at least 299 journalists were  imprisoned for their work worldwide. 

  Of course, the global decline in press freedom and access is not  limited to foreign lands. In the United States, the COVID-19 pandemic  has accelerated the struggle of local news organizations to stay  afloat. The shuttering of local print publications has left rural  populations and marginalized communities without critical sources of  information and has chipped away at the foundation of the U.S. free  press. 

  From the White House, President Trump continues to target journalists  and the media, referring to journalism as ``an evil propaganda  machine'' and the free press as the ``enemy of the people.'' Most  recently and severely, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Trump  administration restricted most on-the-record access to administration  officials and reportedly instructed all officials, including scientific  and medical experts, to have public statements cleared through Vice  President Pence. 

  This episode is unfortunately the latest in an ongoing saga.  Countries around the world have followed President Trump's lead in  attacking journalism as ``fake news.'' Between January 2017 and May  2019, at least 26 countries have enacted or introduced laws restricting  access and media in the name of ``fake news.'' In attacking the media,  President Trump not only undermines the hard-hitting work journalists  in the United States do to hold our leaders accountable and keep the  public informed, but provides foreign leaders with the permission and  vocabulary to do the same. 

  In spite of the unprecedented assault on the free press, journalists  continue to take significant risks in the pursuit of truth and  transparency. In January 2020, the International Consortium of  Investigative Journalists revealed how Isabel dos Santos amassed one of  Africa's largest fortunes in Angola, one of the world's poorest  countries, through embezzlement and corruption using a network of  companies and subsidiaries. In May 2019, Caixin journalists reported on  business and government actions that resulted in the 2019 Jiangsu  Tianjiayi Chemical Plant explosion in China that killed 78 people and  injured over 600. Journalists have also continued to report on the  situation of Uyghurs and other minorities held in detention centers in  China's Xinjiang region, including new revelations from hundreds of  pages of leaked CCP documents published by the New York Times in  November 2019. 

  I join the international community in honoring and defending the  brave journalists seeking to report on the truth and tell the stories  that deserve to be told. Over 200 years ago, our Founding Fathers had  the foresight to recognize the importance of a free press to a  democracy, enshrining it in our First Amendment. Today, that importance  cannot be overstated. Recognizing that societies where informed  citizens can hold their governments accountable are more stable,  secure, and prosperous, we have a responsibility to stand up for the  fundamental rights of freedom of expression and a free press. 

  This week, I introduced a resolution commemorating World Press  Freedom Day. The resolution highlights increasing threats to freedoms  of the press and expression worldwide, especially amid the COVID-19  pandemic, reaffirms the centrality of a free and independent press to  the health of democracy, and reiterates freedom of the press as a  priority of the United States in promoting democracy, human rights, and  good governance. On this World Press Freedom Day, I call on the Trump  administration and our world leaders to recommit to advancing press  freedom, protecting journalists, and embracing the important role they  play in a healthy and secure society. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT