-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689816/9999


Ms. DUCKWORTH. Madam President, let me just say that, at the VA, we  recently passed the PACT Act, which added well over a million veterans  to the rolls to help care for them after they were exposed to toxic  substances. This is not the time to cut the funding for the VA.

But I am here today to speak on behalf of all veterans who have been  fired by President Trump and Elon Musk.

Look, Donald Trump couldn't tell you the meaning of the words  ``service'' or ``sacrifice'' if he had a dictionary laying open in  front of him. So how dare a coward who cried ``bone spurs,'' when his  Nation needed him the most, turn his back on those who, unlike him,  were actually brave enough to serve our country in uniform.

What he has done to our veterans in just a few months since he has  been back in office amounts to a total betrayal. For no apparent  reason, he has already fired more veterans than any other American  President in modern history, over 6,000 and counting. He has been  forcing the bravest people you or I could ever meet to have to worry  about how they are going to put food on their family's table next week  or keep a roof over their heads next month.

The biggest predictor of veterans homelessness is not that they are  suffering from post-traumatic stress. It is not substance abuse. It is  loss of a job. Homelessness is directly linked to joblessness.

These folks that Trump fired, these are folks who did one, two, six,  even seven tours. They came home and chose to continue serving their  Nation by joining the Federal service. These are heroes who deserve our  utmost gratitude, not a letter from Elon Musk telling them that they  failed to do their jobs and that they are out of those jobs.

Instead, Trump and Elon Musk gave them the middle finger and a pink  slip. ``Cadet Bone Spurs'' may like to wrap himself in the flag with  one hand, but with the other he is signing off on the orders that sell  out our veterans to line the pockets of his rich friends, and our  warriors deserve better.

So this afternoon, Senator Blumenthal, Senator Sanders, and I are  introducing three resolutions that demand the reinstatement of every  veteran who has been fired and betrayed by Donald Trump. If Republicans  actually care about our heroes, like they claim to when they are on the  campaign trail, then they will vote with us Democrats and help give our  veterans their Federal jobs back. Otherwise, they are making it clear  that they would rather bow down at the altar of Donald Trump than stand  up for our heroes.

As if in legislative session and notwithstanding rule XXII, I ask  unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of S.  Res. 166, which was submitted earlier today. Further, I ask unanimous  consent that  the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and that the  motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with  no intervening action or debate.

Ms. DUCKWORTH. I just want to set the record straight that the VA's  population of employees did grow because of the PACT Act, a bill that  was voted on and passed in a bipartisan way to save the lives of those  veterans who would otherwise be dying if they did not have access to VA  healthcare for the illnesses that are caused by their exposure to toxic  substances.

So let's be clear about why we hired more people within the  Department of Veterans Affairs: It was because they were given the  permission by this Congress, by this body, in a bipartisan way, passing  the PACT Act legislation, which funded care for veterans who were  exposed to burn pits in Iraq and Afghanistan and toxic substances from  their military service.

My resolution is about all veterans who serve this Nation. Some of  the veterans who have been laid off are park rangers in our National  Park Service who are now out of a job--people who were promoted because  they did such a good job.

One person I was trying to get their job back was actually working  with the Veterans Crisis Hotline. They were doing such a good job  answering the phones that they were promoted to trainer. As soon as  they were promoted to be a trainer to help other people to answer those  hotlines, which could help stop veterans death by suicide, they became  probationary employees, and they were fired.

That is the kind of thing we are talking about--people being laid off  from their jobs, veterans who worked hard for this country and worked  hard in the Department of Veterans Affairs and other Federal Agencies  like the National Park Service, like the EPA, like the DOT. And that is  whom Donald Trump and Elon Musk are firing.

If you want to save money, I am all for it. I am there with you. I  actually passed legislation that saved this country billions of dollars  in fraud and waste that occurred in the Department of Defense.

I also think that Elon Musk's decision to deport people to India  using a C-17 aircraft at the cost of $2 million of taxpayer money, when  normally that flight would cost $38,000 if you were to actually charter  an aircraft, was an egregious waste of taxpayer dollars.

Let's talk about who is wasting money here. Elon Musk is wasting  money, and it is Donald Trump wasting money. At the same time,  President Trump has become the President who fired the most veterans in  our Nation's modern history, over 6,000 fired and counting. Let's set  the record straight.

Thank you, Mr. President.