-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700884/9999


Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, it wasn't too long ago that Donald  Trump won the 2024 election, in large part, due to his promise to get  our Nation out of foreign wars and bring prices down for Americans  across this great Nation.

Well, 18 days into his war of choice in Iran that is costing  taxpayers over a billion dollars each day, the American people can see  with their own eyes that he has broken and continues to break those  promises.

Gas, food, housing, basic everyday necessities, costs are  skyrocketing, not falling.

Wars? Thirteen servicemembers are dead, over 200 have been wounded,  and thousands more Americans are located in the Middle East with a  target on their backs because of his choice to start a war with Iran, a  choice he simply had no right to make unilaterally, but that did not  stop him.

Thirteen American lives and at least 1 billion taxpayer dollars a day  are far too high a price to pay for an unauthorized and needless war  that Trump himself cannot articulate a coherent or consistent  justification for.

So I am here today to support the Senator from New Jersey's War  Powers Resolution that would reassert the American people's  constitutional say over decisions of war and peace through their  elected representatives and put an end to this unjustified, illegal  war.

And I join Senator Booker in demanding that the majority leader  immediately hold public hearings that bring members of the Trump  administration under oath and force them to justify why they are  sending our sons and daughters into harm's way halfway around the world  and tell us their plan for keeping Americans safe.

The truth is, I wish I didn't have to be here doing this, and I am  angry that it is not even the first time this month that I have had to  come here to beg my Republican colleagues to do their jobs and stop  shirking their constitutional duty to the American people and our  troops and hold a public hearing on the immediate risks, ongoing  objectives, and plan to end Trump's illegal war of choice.

Look, our troops will always do their jobs to the best of their  ability just as they have since Operation Epic Fury began. We all agree  that they are doing an incredible job in very dangerous circumstances,  but they deserve leaders in Washington who will do our jobs and  actually ensure that their mission is justified, actually feasible, and  worthy of the sacrifices we are asking them and their families to make.  They don't deserve a Commander in Chief who hides his draft-dodging  incompetence behind their valor by acting as if criticizing his bad and  even illegal decision is the same thing as criticizing our troops-- because it is not.

My Republican colleagues know as well as I do that the Constitution  gave the American people the authority to send our troops to war  through their elected representatives in Congress. We in these Chambers  are the ones tasked with deciding when and how Americans are sent into  combat. We are the ones charged with that most solemn duty. Yet, Trump  is acting as if article I simply doesn't exist, as if obeying the  Constitution is optional, as if our founding document is just a  yellowing, crumpled piece of paper he can crumple up at will.

Refusing to allow him to get away with this should not and must not  be a partisan issue. I ran for Congress so that when the drums of war  started beating beneath this Capitol dome, I would be in a position to  make sure that our elected officials fully considered the true cost of  war, not just in dollars and cents, but in human lives as well.

Look, I am no dove. I know there are certain solemn, urgent times  when our military must be called upon to defend our Nation. There are  certain moments when the threat in question is significant and  imminent, when military force is the most effective tool at hand, when  using it is necessary to protect America and her interests, and when  using military force will not backfire and create more threats than it  eliminates.

Trump has shown no evidence that this is one of those times. He has  had weeks. While his administration avoids accountability to the  public, American heroes keep dying. American diplomats have been  targeted and displaced, and American families who have been stranded in  the region are fearful of their safety. Here at home, American farmers  who are heading into the planting season are facing skyrocketing costs  of fertilizer and diesel fuel trapped in the Strait of Hormuz, a  challenge that will result in many of them losing their family farms.

If they actually believe that this war is justified, then the  administration needs to come to Congress and do their jobs, to explain  their case and give the American people a say through their elected  representatives. They need to respect the American people enough to  actually tell them why they are being forced to bear the cost of this  conflict. They need to prove that they have thought this through enough  that they can tell us what their plan is to stop the war and get to an  end state in Iran that would make us safer, not more threatened.

Then, when the case has been made and when Congress' debate is done,  we must vote. It is our burden. It is our responsibility. It is the  least we can do for those who are willing to sacrifice everything to  safeguard our democracy; but until and unless they do that, we here  need to do everything we can to force the administration to do their  part. We can start by passing this the War Powers Resolution offered by  Senator Booker.

So, to my Republican colleagues, please, join us in finally reining  in this unjustified war and in demanding that the administration come  before the American people and publicly attempt to convince us that the  mission is worthy of the sacrifices it requires. Then, after we have  had that debate, we can show a fraction of the courage of our warriors  and cast the tough vote.