Citizenship for Children of Military Members and Civil Servants Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, I rise today to applaud my colleagues  for passing H.R. 4803, Citizenship for Children of Military Members and  Civil Servants Act, without amendment by unanimous consent. 

  Last year, Senator Johnny Isakson joined me in introducing the  bipartisan Senate companion to H.R. 4803 to make sure that when  children of U.S. citizens serving in the U.S. Armed Forces or working  for the U.S. Government are born abroad because their parents are  serving our Nation overseas, they automatically acquire U.S.  citizenship. 

  The unanimous passage of the Citizenship for Children of Military  Members and Civil Servants Act by the U.S. House of Representatives and  the U.S. Senate sends a strong message that children born to American  parents serving our country abroad are just as worthy of automatic  citizenship as any other child in this country. 

  This principle should not be controversial. That is why for the past  15 years, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services considered children  of members of the U.S. Armed Forces and Federal Government employees  stationed outside the United States to be deemed as ``residing in the  United States'' for the purpose of automatically acquiring citizenship. 

  This policy was pragmatic and cut burdensome redtape for American  parents willing to serve our Nation abroad  as U.S. servicemembers or civil servants. It provided flexibility and  allowed U.S. citizen parents to meet residency requirements for  acquisition of citizenship while serving overseas. It kept American  parents from cutting their overseas commitment short to establish  residency so their children could earn citizenship. This policy allowed  their children to enjoy the same privileges of acquiring citizenship,  as if their parents were working and living within our country's  borders. 

  However, in August 2019, the Trump administration enacted a policy  change to reverse this practice. Under this new policy, certain  Americans serving their Nation abroad, in uniform or in the civil  service, must apply for citizenship on behalf of their children. These  parents now have to navigate a complex bureaucratic process and spend  hundreds of dollars on an application, with no guarantee that their  children will receive citizenship of the very country they are serving  abroad in uniform or as a Federal employee. 

  In fact, this policy change caused Republican and Democratic  lawmakers to recognize that current citizenship laws disadvantage these  patriotic families. Our citizenship laws and bureaucratic requirements  inflict undue burden on these families and make American parents  ``prove'' that their children are worthy of U.S. citizenship. 

  As a combat veteran, I understand the challenges and family stressors  that face Active-Duty members deployed to defend our Nation overseas.  Congress should be helping U.S. servicemembers focus on achieving their  mission. Providing U.S. servicemembers and civil servants with the  peace of mind that they will not have to navigate a lengthy and  expensive process to apply for U.S. citizenship for their children  advances this important goal. 

  Our commonsense legislation codifies the previous policy by  clarifying the Immigration and Nationality Act to clearly require that  children of U.S. citizen parents born in a foreign nation while their  parents are stationed abroad automatically acquire U.S. citizenship. 

  I urge the President to honor the service and dedication of our U.S.  servicemembers, military families, and Federal workforce by signing the  Citizenship for Children of Military Members and Civil Servants Act  into law.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT