Duckworth, Durbin & García to Amtrak CEO: Commit to Making Amtrak Affordable, Accessible and Reliable for Customers With Disabilities


U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Transportation and Security, which has jurisdiction over Amtrak, U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL), U.S. Representative Jesús "Chuy" García (D-IL-4) wrote to Amtrak President and CEO Richard Anderson today after Amtrak mistakenly charged a group of wheelchair advocates $25,000 to travel from Chicago to Bloomington-Normal, IL, before ultimately backing down and apologizing. In the letter, the Members of Congress express their disappointment in Amtrak for its initial price quote, urge Amtrak to review and improve its disability and accessibility policies, create a new position on Amtrak's Executive Leadership Team and work with Congress to establish a new seat on the Amtrak Board of Directors to be filled by a member of the disability community.

"We are deeply disappointed by Amtrak's initial quote of $25,000 that was offered to a group of disability advocates -- five of whom use wheelchairs -- when seeking to purchase tickets and arrange for reasonable accommodations to travel aboard Amtrak's Lincoln Service from the City of Chicago to Bloomington-Normal, Illinois," wrote the Members of Congress. "The time has come for Amtrak to hold itself accountable for making intercity passenger rail readily accessible to all Americans."

"Amtrak's decision to shift accommodation costs onto disabled commuters undermined trust with loyal customers and damaged the Corporation's brand. We support your decision to reconsider and end the existing policies and practices that led to the unlawful initial charge to these commuters," the Members of Congress continued. "We hope that this unfortunate incident will serve as a turning point in the long-standing effort to make sure Amtrak customers with disabilities can travel as seamlessly as any other passenger on the national network."

Duckworth issued a statement just over a week ago calling on Amtrak to apologize and requesting a meeting with Amtrak CEO Richard Anderson.