Duckworth Meets With Rockford University & Blackburn College Presidents to Discuss College Affordability


U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) today met with Blackburn College Interim President Dr. John McClusky and Rockford University President Dr. Eric Fulcomer to discuss her work to make higher education more accessible, increase federal support for higher education institutions and improve Veteran and servicemember education. Duckworth, McClusky and Fulcomer also discussed the importance of investing in career and technical training programs that help quickly connect students to the workforce with in-demand jobs. A photo of the meeting is available here. 

"Those of us who weren't always sure we'd be able to go to college understand the power of a diploma," Duckworth said. "I'll keep working to ensure federal support for higher education, especially for our Illinois schools like Rockford University and Blackburn College, so that every American has the opportunity to enroll in college and complete a degree."

This Friday, Senator Duckworth will visit Rockford University to accept the Jane Addams Medal--the University's highest public recognition, which was named after housing activist, social worker and alum Jane Addams--from Dr. Fulcomer.

Duckworth is working to include two of her bills--the Community College to Career Fund (CC2C) Act and the Child Care Access Means Parents in Schools (CCAMPIS) Reauthorization Act--in the next Higher Education Act (HEA) Reauthorization. The CC2C Act would make higher education more affordable for students pursuing degrees in high-skill industries by helping businesses fill vacant, good-paying positions with qualified candidates while the CCAMPIS Act would increase access to on-campus child care for low-income student parents and ensure the U.S. Department of Education is meeting the needs of our student parent populations. Duckworth also helped re-introduce legislation last March to allow Americans with outstanding student loan debt to refinance their loans at more affordable interest rates, potentially saving thousands of dollars.