Durbin, Duckworth Discuss COVID-19 Response In Illinois With Acting Navy Secretary And Chief Of Naval Personnel


U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL), Vice Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, and U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), a combat Veteran and member of the U.S. Senate Armed Services committee, spoke with Acting U.S. Navy Secretary James McPherson and Chief of Naval Personnel Vice Admiral John Nowell today to discuss the Navy's COVID-19 response efforts in Illinois, including reports of the spread of COVID-19 at Naval Station Great Lakes in Great Lakes, Illinois. Durbin and Duckworth urged the Acting Secretary to provide more transparency regarding any outbreaks at Naval Station Great Lakes, a major base with 25,000 workers and that's integrated into the local community.  On April 17, the Chicago Tribune reported that the first new class to arrive at Naval Station Great Lakes will be isolated for two weeks at the Great Wolf Lodge and that future incoming recruits will also be expected to isolate.

"We received an update from the Navy today about their COVID-19 response at Naval Station Great Lakes, where new recruits have once again begun to arrive.  It is absolutely critical that the Navy recruits and officers at Naval Station Great Lakes continue to work to mitigate, contain, and isolate any cases of COVID-19; practice social distancing; and do their best to keep the community that surrounds the base informed.  We must keep our service members and Great Lakes residents safe," Durbin said.

"I thank Acting Secretary McPherson for taking the time to provide an update on the situation at Naval Station Great Lakes and I hope the Navy will be transparent in their continued efforts to prevent and mitigate the spread of COVID-19 on base," said Duckworth. "Protecting servicemembers, their families and the surrounding community is of the utmost importance and I look forward to keeping in close touch with the Secretary to make sure all necessary steps are being taken."