Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, as if in legislative session, I ask  unanimous consent that the Judiciary Committee be discharged from  further consideration of S. 1938 and the Senate proceed to its  immediate consideration; further, that the bill be read a third time  and passed and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and  laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, first he said ``I can't breathe.'' Then  he called out ``Mama'' for his late mother. 

  Last Monday, in broad daylight, George Floyd was slowly, publicly  killed by someone whose responsibility it was to protect and serve.  Officer Derek Chauvin, who has since been rightfully fired, spent about  3 minutes ignoring Floyd's cries of pain, refusing to move his knee  from Floyd's neck, refusing to let up, to get up, even as the man under  him begged for life and lost consciousness. Then he spent roughly  another 6 minutes after Floyd had fallen silent ignoring the number of  growing of witnesses who begged him to see the obvious--that the man  under his knee was unresponsive, that he was dying. 

  As a mom, there are not words to describe the visceral, gut-wrenching  feeling of hearing someone cry out for their mother in a moment of such  desperation. 

  George Floyd's death was unnecessary and heartbreaking. It was a  tragedy, but horrifyingly, it was not an anomaly. 

  From Eric Garner, who told us 6 years ago that he, too, could not  breathe, to Tamir Rice, who never made it to his 13th birthday, the  senseless killing of unarmed Black Americans at the hands of law  enforcement has become an all-too-common occurrence. The horror of the  moment, then the outrage and sadness and, yes, anger that follow have  turned into a pattern that too many people appear to believe is normal.  It is not, and we cannot--must not--let ourselves become numb to the  reality in front of us. 

  George Floyd was someone's son who with his dying breath called out  for his mother who had previously passed away. He had a 6-year-old  daughter who will not only grow up without a father but knowing that  she, too, would face the same danger every day just because of the  color of her skin. 

  George Floyd was born in a country built on the belief that we are  all created equal, but he died in a country that still has not fully  realized that we must all be treated equally as well. 

  It is long, long past time for action. We needed it before George  Floyd; we needed it before Breonna Taylor, before Laquan McDonald, and  before countless others were killed too. 

  We need real leaders who listen to Americans' cries for help and give  those fighting for justice a platform to be heard. But sadly, although  unsurprisingly, Donald Trump has done just the opposite over the past  few days, trampling First Amendment rights by ordering Federal law  enforcement to assault those who stood in the way of his photo-op,  exploiting our military and disrespecting our troops by using them as a  cudgel to silence our neighbors and further divide our country. 

  Donald Trump may be our Commander in Chief, but tear-gassing peaceful  protestors is not leadership; it is cowardice. Threatening military  force against Americans exercising their constitutional right is not  Presidential; it is tin-pot dictatorial. 

  You know, in moments like these, it is more important than ever to  recognize the privilege that many of us  have. I will never be forced to sit my daughters down and have the same  talk with them that Black mothers have with their children--especially  their sons--about how exactly to move and speak when interacting with  police officers to preemptively reassure them that they pose no danger;  or about the fundamental racism that mars our society that will  question their motives and their right to be somewhere just because of  the shade of their skin; or about the systemic biases that lead too  many Americans, including those in positions of power, to view unarmed  Black children as more threatening than White adults holding  semiautomatic rifles. 

  I know that I will never be able to fully comprehend the fear that  those parents must face every time their child steps outside, every  time they dare to walk to school or play on the playground or buy some  Skittles while Black. But what I do know is the burden of all this pain  and trauma cannot fall and should not fall on those families alone. The  responsibility, the work, the bending of the moral arc of the universe  toward justice cannot just be put on the backs of the very people who  have been feeling its weight this entire time. 

  The systemic injustices in our country are not going away by  themselves, and they will not be solved if too many good, decent  Americans remain silent. If we choose to avoid difficult realities and  tough conversations simply because they make us uncomfortable, we are  failing to do our part in achieving anything close to a more perfect  union. 

  Those of us who have benefited from the privileges we have been  afforded by society, we have a duty to recognize the costs borne by  those who have been denied those same privileges for generations. 

  I don't claim to have all the answers, but I do know that we must do  more. On a personal level, for me, that has included spending time with  both of my daughters, discussing what true justice and equality means  and how to practice it so that if they grow up to become police  officers themselves, they don't reflexively treat Black Americans as  more dangerous than anyone else; so that when they see a young Black  man shopping, their first thought would never be that he is  shoplifting; so that no matter what they do in life, they judge people  by the content of their character and not the color of their skin. 

  My girls may be just 5 and 2, but it is never too early for us to  talk to our kids about treating others how we want to be treated  because our neighbors, our American brothers and sisters, need more  vocal allies in this fight. I hope to raise two of those allies in my  two girls. Today, I hope to find 99 fellow allies in my colleagues here  in the Senate. It is on each of us lucky enough to serve under this  great Capitol dome to use this moment to fight for justice and  accountability for those families like George Floyd's who had someone  so cruelly and needlessly stolen from them.  

  So I have come to the floor today to request unanimous consent on S.  1938, the Police Training and Independent Review Act, the second bill I  ever introduced into this august body more than 3 years ago. This bill  would demand that local law enforcement agencies change use-of-force  policies and that every American receive fair treatment under the law-- commonsense policies that I believe responsible law enforcement  officers would welcome so they could better protect and serve their  communities. 

  It would establish a new grant program so States can implement racial  bias training at police academies to help officers deescalate tense  situations. It would also encourage States to establish a transparent  system where independent prosecutors review police uses of force and  prosecute officers who break the laws they were entrusted to enforce,  because local prosecutors do have a bias. They rely on the same police  departments to win other cases, which is why it is so critical that we  let outside independent prosecutors do the investigating and  prosecuting of our law enforcement officers who do not follow the law  themselves instead. 

  For me, it comes down to this: We cannot let ourselves accept that,  in the United States of America, in the year 2020, Black men are still  being publicly executed without judge or jury. For about 9 minutes last  Monday, somebody's son and somebody's father was forced to know he was  dying and forced to beg for his life until he couldn't beg anymore. 

  George Floyd cannot breathe anymore. So it is on those of us lucky  enough to still be here today, to still be breathing, to use every  breath we have to fight for the justice that he was robbed of on that  street in Minneapolis last week. I know I will, and I hope every other  American will join me. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT