Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, I am here to speak on two matters. 

  The first is the nomination for Ambassador to the Kingdom of Thailand  of Michael DeSombre. The Kingdom of Thailand has been a longtime U.S.  ally and is a key partner for our efforts in the Southeast Asia region,  both economically and militarily. 

  Unfortunately, this nominee has failed to reach out to either me or  my colleague and my senior Senator, Dick Durbin, both of whom are his  home-State Senators. He has not reached out to me. So I am asking my  colleagues to please vote no on cloture on Michael DeSombre to be our  Ambassador to the Kingdom of Thailand until such time as I am able to  have a chance to sit down with him.                                     Iran  

  Mr. President, now I would like to speak on the attacks from Iran. 

  ``All is well.'' That is what Donald Trump said just hours after a  dozen missiles were fired at two U.S. military bases last night. That  is what he said as thousands of troops are readying to deploy to the  Middle East, to a hotbed of anger, where wearing an American flag on  your shoulder gets more dangerous by the day. That is what he said as  his own Nation careens toward a reckless and unauthorized war of his  own making, born out of his illiteracy in matters ranging from foreign  policy to common sense. 

  Donald Trump never deigned to put on the uniform of this great  Nation, using his father's money to buy his way out of military service  when his country needed him in Vietnam. 

  Let me make something clear to Donald Trump. All is certainly not  well when war is on the horizon, just because you want to look like the  toughest kid on the playground. I am incredibly thankful that no  Americans were killed last night in Iran's rebuttal attack, but some  missed missiles should be no cause for celebration for the President.  Just because there weren't fatalities yesterday doesn't mean there will  not be any tragedies tomorrow. 

  We got into this situation because of Trump's glibness, because he  liked the feeling of thumping his chest and the roar it got from FOX  News, because he was so enamored by maximum pressure that he laughed at  the idea of even minimum diplomacy. Now America is less safe as a  result. So, no, Mr. President, all is certainly not well. 

  Sadly, Trump's glibness is shocking but not surprising. Last weekend,  he was at his golf course in Florida, while more and more American  troops were packing their rucks and getting ready to deploy 7,000 miles  east. He was tweeting from Mar-a-Lago while the Iraqi Parliament was  voting to expel U.S. servicemembers from their nation. He was rubbing  shoulders with fellow millionaires from the comfort of his ritzy  country club while the U.S.-led coalition against ISIS was announcing  that we no longer have the resources to fight ISIS in Iraq and that,  instead, we have to hunker down and focus on protecting our troops from  the acts of revenge that Iran has promised are on the way. 

  A potential global conflict is veering closer by the hour, and it is  because of Donald Trump. It is because of his impetuousness and his  ignorance. It is because, once again, he has been manipulated by a  hostile regime into decisions that further their goals while  endangering the security of the Nation  Trump is actually supposed to be leading. 

  When I deployed to Iraq in 2004, I saw firsthand just how eager the  country was to shake off Iran's influence. I watched as the anti-Iran  protests continued long after I flew my last mission, as young Iraqis  spoke out against Iran while I was back in Baghdad just this past  spring, as protests roiled as recently as last month, when tens of  thousands of Iraqis flooded the streets, raising voices and picket  signs, demanding that their government crawl out from under Tehran's  thumb. 

  Now, after Donald Trump decided to kill Major General Qasem Soleimani  on sovereign Baghdad soil, those same streets are now filled with  protesters once more. Yet, this time, they are marching in solidarity  with the enemy that hundreds of Iraqis died marching against just a few  short weeks ago. 

  With one choice, Donald Trump squandered the opportunity that existed  to push against Iranian influence and for greater democracy and  stability in the Middle East. In one fell swoop, he somehow managed to  villainize the United States and victimize Iran, our enemy, isolating  us from a long-term partner in Iraq and amping up Iran's influence in a  country that everyone knows is vital to our security interests  throughout the Middle East. 

  Look, Iran didn't want Trump to kill Soleimani, but they were hungry  for all that has happened as a result. They were starving to go on the  offensive, desperate to change the narrative, to swing public opinion  and solidify their power in Iraq, to have a new excuse to attack anyone  with an American flag on their shoulder and to shrug off the restraints  of the nuclear deal. 

  Like a pawn in a game of chess he didn't even seem to know he was  playing, Trump was baited into handing them all of that. Like a child  who is blind to consequences, ignorant of his own ignorance, he has  given Iran everything they could have asked for in the end, making it  far more likely that tomorrow--or next week or next month--more  Americans will be sent into another one of the forever wars he has  bragged that he, and he alone, would be able to end. 

  We used to have the Monroe Doctrine and the Truman doctrine. Now we  have the Trump doctrine, in which the leader of the free world, the  Commander in Chief of the greatest fighting force ever assembled, gets  manipulated again and again by dictators of hostile regimes. We have  already seen it too many times since he was sworn into office. We have  seen it played out on the streets of Venezuela and the deserts of  northeast Syria. We have seen him get manipulated by tyrants in  Pyongyang and Riyadh, subjugated by despots in Moscow and Ankara, as  our allies laughed--literally laughed--at him behind his back. 

  All these dictators and hostile regimes know. They have realized the  same thing: The President of the United States is as easy to control as  a toddler. Sweet-talk him or thump your chest and issue a few  schoolyard threats and you have got him. He will fall for it every  time, doing your bidding as if it is his own. I wish this weren't true,  but my diaper-wearing, 20-month-old daughter has better impulse control  than this President. Kids in school cafeterias know not to look up when  someone tells them that ``gullible'' is written on the ceiling, but I  am pretty sure Donald Trump, a man who once stared directly into a  solar eclipse, will be caught stealing a glance, just to be sure. 

  The thing is, Trump told us who he was long before he stepped into  the Oval Office, and too many chose not to believe him. As a so-called  businessman, he left a string of bankruptcies wherever he went,  destroying both his own companies and the small businesses unlucky  enough to be caught in his wake. 

  Now, though, as Commander in Chief, his incompetence has cost us our  standing in the world, endangered our national security, and placed an  even bigger target on our deployed troops. Now, the currency that he is  spending isn't just the money that his father left him but the blood of  the men and women who have sworn an oath to defend this Nation to their  deaths. 

  Sixteen years ago, I was one of the many Americans deployed to Iraq,  one of the many who was willing to sacrifice everything, after our  Commander in Chief convinced Congress that our Nation's security  depended on removing Saddam Hussein and replacing his regime with a  democracy. A decade and a half later, we have spent trillions of  dollars to achieve that goal. Hundreds of thousands of Iraqi citizens  have been killed or displaced. Thousands of our bravest have died for  that goal. Thousands more have been wounded and maimed.  

  We did not sacrifice all of that for this President to turn our Iraqi  partners into adversaries who vote to kick us out of the very democracy  we helped to build. 

  I have friends who have done 8, 9, 10 tours in Iraq, who go each time  knowing they will probably be back on that same stretch of sand in a  couple of years, who proudly answer the call and who will continue to  answer the call, fighting for that same patch of desert over and over  again because they believe--they believe--us when we tell them that  will make America safer and more secure. They gain a few feet one tour,  lose an inch or two the next, watching their buddies lose limbs or  lives over that same piece of ground time and again. 

  Those troops show up ready to do their jobs whenever we ask, no  matter what. We need to honor that. We need to honor their willingness  to show up and carry out the mission. Now, especially after the attacks  last night, we in Congress can honor them by doing our job. We are the  branch vested with that most solemn duty of declaring war, so we need  to exert our constitutional control over this out-of-control toddler- in-chief and vote to prevent him from entangling us in another major  war without legal authorization from Congress. In this moment, at this  precipice, we need to be doing whatever we can to break the cycle of  escalation. We need less chest-thumping and more diplomacy. 

  Don't get me wrong--I am glad this general is dead. He was  responsible for the deaths of hundreds of American servicemembers over  the last decades. I also want to stop Iranian influence, but this  decision by this President has not done that. 

  If we truly want to honor our heroes in uniform, we wouldn't send  them into harm's way without a clear-eyed discussion of the mission we  are asking them to carry out and the consequences for both them and our  Nation. Then, after we have that discussion, if we still believe war is  the right path, I will vote yes. But so far, Trump has not even managed  to come to us to give us his reasons for his actions. Having never  sacrificed much himself, he doesn't understand our troops' sacrifices.  Having never really served anything other than his own self-interests,  he doesn't give a second thought to their service, treating their  dedication to our Nation with the kind of reckless abandon he did the  cash he blew through with each of his bankruptcies. 

  I don't need to remind anyone that Donald Trump is a five-deferment  draft dodger. But his ignorance about military service isn't captured  just by the privilege he showed when he dodged service in Vietnam--no,  it is also revealed in his brazen embrace of torture, his hostility  toward good order and discipline, and his stated desire to commit war  crimes. 

  I implore my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to recognize  our Commander in Chief for who he really is. Donald Trump will never  willingly cut the puppet strings that the likes of Vladimir Putin and  Kim Jong Un are using to make him dance. We need a strong majority in  the Senate to force such an action, to discuss the AUMF. Until then,  small-time dictators will continue to have access to the world's most  powerful marionette, and we will all suffer the consequences. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT