Letter to the Hon. Stephen Dickson, Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration - Senator Duckworth, Former Army Black Hawk Pilot, Demands Investigations into Military Helicopters Threatening American Civilians


Dear Administrator Dickson:

I am deeply concerned about the reports of several helicopters that operated in a low-hover overlarge groups of people gathered in Washington, DC on the evening of Monday, June 1, 2020. Ihave asked for an independent investigation into this matter by the U.S. Department ofTransportation Office of the Inspector General (USDOT OIG) and the Department of DefenseOffice of the Inspector General. I am also requesting any additional information the FederalAviation Administration (FAA) may have regarding the potential misuse and unsafe operation ofmilitary, government or civilian aircraft flying at low altitudes over countless U.S. citizens on theevening in question.

In order to understand if these flight operations were in violation of Federal Aviation Regulations(FARs) or United States Code of Federal Regulations (CFRs), I request you conduct an internalinvestigation. As part of that investigation, I ask that the following questions regarding thepotential misuse of military, government or civilian aircraft be answered no later than June 30,2020, accompanied with all appropriate FAA documentation. To the extent a question refers tothe military, the question shall be interpreted to cover all of the U.S. Department of Defense'smilitary branches and sub-agencies, including Reserve and National Guard forces.

1. Did the FAA have any involvement in the low altitude flight operations of rotary aircrafton the evening of Monday, June 1, 2020, and if so, what is the extent of thatinvolvement?2. Did the FAA approve any portion of the low altitude flight operations of the rotaryaircraft?3. While operating in the DC Metropolitan Flight Restricted Zone (DC FRZ), did theaircraft maintain two-way communication with air traffic control at all times?4. While operating in the DC FRZ, did air traffic control maintain positive radar contact ofthe aircraft at all times? 5. Did the aircraft violate any airspace regulations?6. Did the aircraft violate any air traffic control communication regulations?7. Did the operators of these rotary aircraft violate any other Federal laws, regulations orpolicies?8. Did the air traffic controllers responsible for helicopter flight operations in the DC FRZviolate any Federal laws, regulations, or policies?

I encourage the FAA to act swiftly to fully understand the potential flight infractions thatmay have occurred in our Nation's capital and the potential scope of undue hazardhundreds of civilians were exposed to.

If the results of the FAA or DOT I G's investigations reveal a flight violation did, in fact,occur during these low-level flight operations, I fully expect the appropriate annotations tobe made in the offending members' records and these members to be held accountable tothe fullest extent of the law. The safe operation of all aircraft and maintaining the safety ofpeople and property at all times is of utmost concern. Thank you in advance for yourconsideration of my request.