Letter to the Hon. Barbara Barrett, Secretary of the Air Force, and General David Goldfein, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Department of the Air Force - Senator Duckworth Calls on Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard and National Guard Bureau to Ban the Display of the Confederate Battle Flag


Dear Secretary Barrett and General Goldfein: 

I write to request that the U.S. Department of the Air Force (USAF) prohibit public displays of theConfederate Battle Flag and eliminate any honors that could reasonably be interpreted ascommemorating or celebrating any enemy force, foreign or domestic, that engaged in armedconflict against the U.S. Armed Forces and sought to destroy the United States of America.

The Commandant of the United States Marine Corps (USMC), General David Berger,eloquently described why the USMC would ban the public display of the Confederate BattleFlag:

"I ask every Marine to understand that I fully accept my duty and responsibility to help buildthis team. That means I must identify symbols or subcultures that degrade the cohesion thatcombat demands of us. It is not enough to show up; we fight to win. Failure to accomplish ourassigned mission has never been an option for Marines.In this vein, I have determined it is time to act to exclude from our Corps public displays of thebattle flag carried by the Confederate Army during the American Civil War. In doing so, I ammindful that many people believe that flag to be a symbol of heritage or regional pride. But Iam also mindful of the feelings of pain and rejection of those who inherited the cultural memoryand present effects of the scourge of slavery in our country. My intent is not to judge the specificmeaning anyone ascribes to that symbol or declare someone's personally held view to beincorrect. Rather, I am focused solely on building a uniquely capable warfighting team whosemembers come from all walks of life and must learn to operate side-by-side. This symbol hasshown it has the power to inflame feelings of division. I cannot have that division inside ourCorps."

This action is long overdue. Honoring the "lost cause" of those who waged war against theUnited States of America, or defending the right of an individual State to allow its residents toown, sell and kill fellow Americans as property, has no place in our Nation, especially the U.S.Armed Forces which waged a deadly war to eliminate the barbaric practice of slavery.

Critics of banning the public display of the Confederate Battle Flag may accuse me of seekingto "erase" history. Nothing could be further from the truth. My own family has ancestors whofought for the North as well as some who fought for the South. The Civil War tore apart myfamily as it did so many others. Banning celebration is distinct from education. Rememberingour history and more importantly, learning lessons from that history to avoid future mistakes,has nothing to do with displaying a symbol of past enemy forces, preserving statues that honorenemy forces or insisting that we name installations or platforms after former commanders of such enemy forces.

Unfortunately, our education system has failed far too many of our Soldiers. These Americanswere taught that the Civil War was not about slavery and actually a war over "States' rights."Textbooks and curriculums perpetuating this myth often fail to dig deeper and students are leftto wonder what rights States were willing to die for? The right to dance? If it was not a warfought over a State's right to sanction the killing, owning and selling of African-Americans --what was it about?

Of course, those who have studied the Civil War know that this narrative is a pernicious, deadlymyth perpetuated by those who failed in their effort to preserve slavery and tear apart ourNation. Addressing that foundational deficiency in how we educate our children is beyond thescope and mission of the USAF. However, making sure every Soldier truly understands what theConfederate Battle Flag of the Army of Northern Virginia represents does fall squarely withinyour purview. As does banning this divisive symbol which represents hatred and bigotry that noAmerican should aspire to glorify. Ignorance cannot be an excuse.

The USAF should demonstrate moral leadership in acting swiftly to prohibit the public displayof the Confederate Battle Flag, rather than waiting on Congress to force such action. Thank youin advance for your consideration of my urgent request.