Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, one of the proudest moments of my life  was the first time I ever laced up my boots, put on my uniform, and  raised my right hand to swear my oath to the Constitution as a member  of the Illinois Army National Guard, and I cherished every day that I  got to wake up and call myself a soldier.

And it is because I love our military so deeply that I refuse to let  a five-time, draft-dodging coward abuse it for his own personal gain.  At Quantico last week, Trump told our top military leaders that he  wants American servicemembers to ``train'' against the same citizens  they swear an oath to protect.

Last month, he essentially declared war on Chicago, one of the  largest cities in the country that he leads, with a meme from a Vietnam  war movie about the loss of all humanity when military action is  unchecked by ethics or the laws of war. And this week, he made good on  his threats, forcing hundreds of National Guardsmen into our city,  against the will of the people of Illinois or its legally elected  representatives.

For months, Trump has fabricated claims of chaos and crime on  American streets to justify false claims that  there is a need to deploy troops into our cities against local  officials' wishes--first to L.A., then DC. And he isn't stopping there.  He is also attempting to deploy troops to Portland, though a Federal  judge he appointed blocked his efforts there twice because, in his own  hand-picked appointee's words, Trump's claims about why they are needed  were ``untethered to facts.'' Another way to put that is that he is  lying.

In the last few weeks in Chicago, we have seen Trump's agents detain  innocent Americans, deny citizens their right to legal representation,  point weapons at civilians, zip-tie children, arrest elected officials,  ransack apartment buildings, injure journalists, and shoot a priest in  the head with pepper balls for the so-called crime of peacefully  praying for nonviolence. They have even shot two people, leaving one--a  father of two young children--dead, making dubious and unsubstantiated  claims in their attempt to justify their use of lethal force.

It is obvious what Trump is doing. He is targeting and punishing the  cities who dare to push back against his abuse of power. And while he  is currently targeting blue cities with his lies, if these deployments  are not stopped, there will be nothing to stop him--or any future  President--from doing this to anyone, anywhere, for any made-up reason  that is also untethered to reality.

So let's be clear. Ordering our troops to intimidate Americans in  their own communities doesn't make our Nation safer. Policing Americans  in their own communities is not the National Guard's job. They can't  make arrests, and they are not adequately trained to carry out police  duties in urban environments.

These deployments are yet another Trump move straight out of the  Authoritarian 101 textbook. They further jeopardize civil rights while  distracting our troops from executing their core mission of keeping  Americans safe from the real adversaries who wish us harm.

We know that Trump's actions are not about law and order--because if  he cared about law and order, he wouldn't gleefully refuse to  coordinate with State and local officials. He wouldn't have literally  defunded our police by freezing and slashing Federal dollars that help  hire, train, and equip law enforcement. He wouldn't be diverting  Federal resources and agents away from operations that investigate drug  cartels and drug traffickers, from missions that identify and disrupt  foreign terrorist plots, and from actions that protect our families  from cyber attacks to do it. But he is.

And instead of supporting and expanding proven violent crime  prevention strategies, he is wasting millions of taxpayer dollars to  terrorize law-abiding citizens who are exercising their First Amendment  rights.

Trump is taking our troops away from their missions just to do his  personal bidding, forcing them to confront peacefully protesting  Americans, instead of using their time to train to protect our Nation  in case of future conflicts with America's adversaries around the  world.

Our troops didn't sign up for this. They signed up to defend  Americans' rights to free speech, not to intimidate Americans from  exercising that right. Our troops are willing to die to defend this  country, not to defend one man's ego.

Los Angeles did not ask for this; Washington, DC, did not ask for  this; Portland did not ask for this; Chicago did not ask for this; our  servicemembers did not ask for this.

I am relieved to announce that just moments ago I secured a Senate  hearing in the coming weeks with witnesses from the Trump  administration where I will ask tough questions and demand answers on  these unjustifiable actions because I refuse to stay silent as our  military and our servicemembers' sacrifices are disrespected and abused  by a man who was never brave enough to serve himself.

I cannot let him keep giving our troops the middle finger while  eroding the hard-won trust and confidence they have earned from the  American public over generations of military service. These days, I may  no longer be wearing my Army uniform, but it still hangs proudly in my  Senate office. And now, I spend a lot of my time seated on the Senate  floor rather than beneath my Black Hawk's main rotors, but my core  mission is still the same as when I was in the National Guard: to keep  America as strong and as safe as she should be.

If only Donald Trump cared about doing the same.