Three Years After Trump's Travel Ban, Duckworth and Durbin Join Colleagues to Call for a National Commitment to Refugee Resettlement


Three years after President Trump announced a travel ban for immigrants from majority-Muslim countries, U.S. Senators Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) joined Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and fourteen Democratic colleagues to introduce a resolution that calls on Congress to reaffirm the United States' commitment to providing a safe haven for refugees fleeing oppression. On January 27, 2017, President Trump issued the first of three executive orders banning refugees, immigrants, and visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries to the United States. Since then, the Trump Administration has continued to pursue anti-immigrant, anti-refugee policies rooted in religious and nationality-based discrimination, with additional bans looming. 

"Since taking office, Donald Trump has not stopped wrongfully characterizing entire countries, faiths and peoples in dogged pursuit of his un-American and xenophobic policies," said Duckworth. "Three years ago when he first issued his discriminatory travel ban, I called on the DHS Inspector General to investigate and they found that the Administration violated multiple court orders, likely depriving people of their Constitutional rights. If the Administration follows through on proposals to expand the ban, I'll keep pushing for answers and ways to end these hateful policies."

"Three years ago this week, within a week of becoming President, President Trump put his ugly campaign rhetoric into action and issued the first version of the Muslim travel ban," said Durbin. "It was the first of many anti-immigrant and anti-refugee policies that have been pushed by this Administration, including shrinking refugee acceptance to historic lows. Our resolution sends a message to the world that even as this President disparages immigrants and stonewalls refugees fleeing violence and danger, Congress remains committed to helping those in need."

Following Trump's announcement of the Muslim travel ban in 2017, Duckworth and Durbin called on Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Inspector General (IG) to investigate the federal government's chaotic and potentially illegal implementation of President Trump's first Muslim ban. The IG did investigate and found that the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) violated at least two separate federal court orders and likely deprived travelers of their Constitutional rights. In 2015, Duckworth penned an op-ed in the Chicago Tribune about the refugee crisis.

As the global displacement crisis continues to worsen -- with more than 25,400,000 refugees worldwide -- the resolution directs the United States to commit to resettle a robust number of refugees to meet its share of the global need. The United States set a record low in refugee admissions for 2020 by allowing just 18,000 refugees.

Along with Duckworth, Durbin and Blumenthal, the resolution is co-sponsored by Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Chris Coons (D-DE), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA).

"Discrimination against people because of their faith or nationality goes against the very ideals our nation was founded on, and the country we aspire to be," said Church World Service President and CEO Reverend John L. McCullough. "President Trump's refugee and Muslim ban was wrong when it was announced, and it is wrong today as the threat of it being expanded to other countries looms."

In addition to the Immigration and Refugee Program at Church World Service, the resolution is supported by more than one hundred advocacy groups, including International Rescue Committee, Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Oxfam America, Human Rights First, and U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.