War Powers Resolution


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700312/war-powers-resolution


Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, I come here today to support Senator  Kaine's War Powers Resolution.

You know, I am proud of every mission that I completed in Iraq, but I  would never wish another needless, endless, unjustified war like the  one that I served in on anyone else. I wouldn't wish it on the heroes  whose blood would be soaked into that desert sand. I would not wish it  on their families, who would spend their days anxiously awaiting for  news from half a world away. I wouldn't wish it on the American people,  who are desperate for their President to focus on bringing their costs  down here at home, not on starting new, expensive, forever wars  continents away.

So I am here today to keep a promise I first made two decades ago. I  ran for Congress so that when the drums of war started beating once  again, I would be in a position to make sure that our elected officials  fully considered the true cost of the war not just in dollars and cents  but in human lives as well. That was the vow I made to the troops I  deployed with and to all those who have served since I hung up my  uniform.

Today, I am speaking here under this great Capitol dome to keep that  most sacred promise because, sadly, right now, American servicemembers  are already in harm's way 6,000 miles east in what could be yet another  preventable war. These troops are ready to do their jobs no matter  what, just as they have done time after time, tour after tour. So, to  me, it is tragic that even as they prepare to do their jobs, our  President and certain Members of this Chamber seem so ready to neglect  their own.

As we all know, on Saturday morning, without any known imminent  threat to America or American interests, Donald Trump launched an  illegal military campaign against Iran.

Look, I want a democratic Iran, and I want to see the Iranian people  free from the iron grip of its brutal, authoritarian regime, and I am  not about to shed a tear for the Ayatollah's death. He was no friend of  the United States' nor to his own people. He was responsible for the  brutal murders of thousands of his own citizens in just the past few  months alone. However, my first concern is always going to be the  national security of the United States, and I am troubled because of  the consequences that are sure to come because of Trump's actions.

Our troops and Americans all around the world are at greater risk  because Trump wanted to thump his chest and look like a tough guy on  TV. For no real reason he can explain, Trump is marching us closer and  closer to another costly, bloody, protracted conflict--a war without  any defined end state and even without a concept of a plan for how to  prevent the chaos and instability that will come next.

Far from making America greater or better or stronger or whatever new  adjective he is using this week, Trump's actions have made our Nation  and our allies less safe. He has made them less secure.

By continuing to strain our military with wars of choice, Trump is  handing a gift to bad actors like Russia and the PRC, as his never- ending chaos makes it harder for our Armed Forces to focus on defending  our critical interests in places like the Indo-Pacific.

So, no, Trump's actions over the past 72 hours--or ever--haven't put  America first; they have made the situation for America worse.

The sad fact of the matter is that what we are facing today is in  large part a manufactured crisis. Iran is no ally of ours. We have been  adversaries since long before Trump took office. I have always  condemned their proxy activity and ballistic missile program, and I  certainly agree that they cannot be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon.  But we can't forget that Donald Trump is the one who pulled the United  States out of the very deal that was limiting their weapons development  program. Trump is the one who made sure Iran no longer had to play by  the rules and curb their nuclear production. Trump and his inability to  conduct foreign policy are what made today's nightmare a reality.

His historical incompetence is what gave them the matchbox and the  motivation to start a fire, and now he is angry that it is starting to  catch. He is mad because they are doing the very things his actions  encouraged them to do. It is circular logic which has already had fatal  consequences--fatal for the six American heroes who have already lost  their lives in this conflict and fatal for the hundreds of civilians  who have already become the most horrible kind of collateral--moms and  dads who this evening should be able to sit down and eat dinner with  their little girl, who should be able to kiss their little boy  goodnight, who should be able to go bed dreaming of a tomorrow that  doesn't include missiles or misery.

Now he has created a power vacuum in Iran, resulting in an unstable  regime that is willing to do anything to hold on to power. Now he has  created an open invitation for well-funded, organized terrorist groups  to swoop in and snatch away any chance the Iranian people have for  freedom and self-governance.

War is always tragic, but when it is preventable, it is not just  tragic but a travesty too. Trump wouldn't let himself be dragged by the  bone spurs to serve in uniform when his country needed him, so how dare  he try to drag us into yet another war of his choice today. But this  draft dodger is too infatuated with maximum pressure to consider even  minimum diplomacy. Once again, the Trump foreign policy doctrine has  proven reckless, senseless, and dangerous--a doctrine in which fact and  fiction are one and the same and one in which avarice outweighs advice  every damn time.

It is shameful--terrifying--that we have a Commander in Chief who  seems to come to military decisions by virtue of temper tantrums and  announces them via tweet, a President who doesn't seem to care if he  keeps to the path of fire and fury that he has been treading; our own  homeland will be in greater danger, more wounded warriors will be sent  to Walter Reed, and more fallen heroes will be laid to rest in  Arlington; a President who is so obsessed with being the tough guy,  that he doesn't seem to give--well, doesn't seem to care; a President  who is happy to squander the lives of our heroes for his own personal  gain.

Now, after this weekend, he has officially traded deterrence for  instability and chaos and made us all less safe in the process-- Americans, certainly, but also our partners in the region and the  Iranian people themselves, who did not ask for any of this; Iranian  families who suffered decades under the Ayatollah's tyrannical iron  grip and who, at long last, want to feel safe and secure.

Look, Trump may have run to his podiatrist instead of running toward  danger in Vietnam, but I actually know what it is like to leave your  blood, your sweat--your limbs--in a war zone half a world away. So I  know what is at stake for the thousands of troops this administration  is getting ready to send into harm's way, and I can tell you this: It  is a whole lot easier to cover your eyes and order other Americans to  sacrifice if you don't have to sacrifice anything yourself. It is much  easier to ignore the everyday realties of war from inside the hallowed  halls of the White House, but it is nearly impossible if you have been  outside the wire yourself.

So as those drums of war echo louder than they have in years, I am  here today because, despite what he thinks, Donald Trump does not have  the authority to unilaterally force us into war.

He may have never read the Constitution, but I have. So let me direct  his attention to article I, which makes it clear that the President  does not have the power to declare war; only Congress does. We are the  ones tasked with deciding when and how Americans are sent into combat.  We are the ones charged with that most solemn duty, yet Trump is acting  also if article I simply doesn't exist, as if obeying the Constitution  is optional, as if our founding document is a yellowing, crumbling  piece of paper he can crumble up at will.

Refusing to allow him to get away with this should not--must not--be  a partisan issue. No matter if you are struggling to pay rent or your  name is plastered in fake gold on a building on  Fifth Avenue, no one can ignore the Constitution. No matter if you are  a Mar-a-Lago worker pulling double shifts or the President of the  United States, no one is above the law.

Look, I believe there are certain solemn, urgent times when our  military must be called upon to defend us. There are certain moments  when the threat in question is significant and imminent, instances when  military force is the most effective tool at hand and that using it is  necessary to protect America and her interests. The thing is, from what  little information Trump has shared publicly so far, this is not one of  those times.

But if the administration thinks I am wrong, then the floor is  theirs. We are only a 20-minute walk from the White House. It is not  that hard to find us here. We are the building with the big dome on  top. If they actually believe that this war is justified, then they  need to come to Congress and do their jobs, explaining their case and  giving the American people a say through their elected representatives.

They need to respect the American people enough to actually tell them  why they are being forced to bear the costs of this conflict, both in  dollars and cents and daughter and sons.

The White House needs to respect our servicemembers enough to prove  why war with Iran is worth turning more moms and dads into Gold Star  parents. They need to prove that they have thought this through enough,  then they can tell us what an end state in Iran would look like.

Then, when their case has been made, when Congress' debate is done,  we, in this Chamber, must vote. It is our duty; it is our burden; it is  the least we can do for those willing to sacrifice everything to  safeguard our democracy.

But if the Trump administration refuses to do that, if they refuse to  adhere to the first article of our Constitution, well then it begs the  question: What are they hiding?

This week, we will vote on Senator Kaine's War Powers Resolution, and  I am well aware that many of my colleagues are claiming to have a  difficult time deciding how to vote. To them, let me say this: We ask a  lot of tough things of our troops and military families. Serving in a  combat zone is hard. Hugging your husband or your wife, your father or  your daughter, for the last time before they deploy, not knowing if you  will ever see them again, that is hard. The least we can do here in  return is ensure that we Senators take our duties as seriously as our  military men and women do theirs.

So to my Republican colleagues: Please, think about the fact that  Trump cared so little about your beliefs on this matter that he  willfully, illegally circumvented our Chamber entirely, preferring to  sow chaos and fear, leaving Americans in a lurch and their elected  representatives in the dark, choosing to start an unlawful war rather  than simply ask for your expertise for your constitutionally mandated  vote.

And think about that Trump still has not been able to tell us of an  imminent threat to American interests that would have actually required  military action anywhere near this scale. And then after reflecting on  all of that, all I am asking is that you vote for what you know is  right.

Moving forward, I will come back to the Chamber every afternoon, if  necessary, to remind the Nation of the hard lessons learned the last  time a President rashly sent our sons and daughters into another  unjustified war in the Middle East, trying to ensure that this time we  do right by our troops, trying to ensure that this time we actually  fully, soberly consider the consequences of Washington's decisions on  those who serve and their families.

God bless each and every one of our troops in harm's way right now.