Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. JOYCE of Ohio. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Cole for yielding but  mostly for his leadership together with the ranking member, the lovely  Ms. DeLauro, Senate Appropriations Chairwoman Collins and Vice Chair  Murray, and Senate Financial Services and General Government  Subcommittee Chairman Hagerty and Ranking Member Reed. I appreciate all  of their work on this bill.

Separately, I thank my ranking member, Mr. Hoyer. I value his  institutional knowledge and his insight on and off this committee. I am  sad to see him leave at the end of this Congress.

I rise today in strong support of the fiscal year 2026 Financial  Services and General Government Appropriations  Act. This legislation funds the Department of the Treasury, the  Executive Office of the President, the Federal judiciary, the District  of Columbia, and more than 20 independent commissions, departments, and  agencies.

The breadth of FSGG's jurisdiction is daunting, and there are many  who thought we could never get a bill done, let alone a bipartisan one.  I thank all the members of the FSGG subcommittee for their hard work,  and I certainly thank Kim Betz for her hard work in keeping this  program online and on track to be here today. I thank all the members  of the subcommittee because we would not be here without them.

The bill we are considering today has a total base discretionary  funding level of $26.3 billion. However, when compared to FY 2025  enacted levels for non-Defense discretionary spending, this bill is a  $140 million cut.

The Treasury Department is cut by 8 percent from FY 2025 enacted  levels, including the IRS. In fact, the IRS enforcement account is  below $5 billion for the first time since 2021.

The Executive Office of the President is funded at just over $870  million.

Funding for the Federal judiciary is increased by 6 percent to $9.7  billion, which will support court security and the Federal public  defender's program.

Approximately $877 million in Federal payments are provided to the  District of Columbia, including emergency security funding for D.C. to  support events in the capital, like America's 250 celebrations,  Memorial Day, and Labor Day.

Finally, $2.8 billion is provided for the SEC, FTC, FCC, GSA, SBA,  and more than 20 independent agencies.

This bill will enable the GSA to reduce the number of Federal  properties on the Federal Government's deferred maintenance list. It  provides critical funding for national security, including the Office  of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence and the Committee on Foreign  Investment.

The bill funds bipartisan programs like CDFIs, which support  communities and high-intensity drug trafficking area programs that are  critical to strengthening this administration's interdiction and  fentanyl tracking efforts.

In conclusion, this bill funds critical government agencies and  programs and preserves and protects Congress' responsibility of  overseeing how these funds are being used.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''