Recognizing the 100th Anniversary of Gadsden State Community College


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  100th anniversary of Gadsden State Community College. Gadsden State is  currently under the leadership of President Alan Smith.

One of the initial founding institutions of Gadsden State is the  Alabama School of Trades. It was established in 1925 as the first  state-operated trade school in Alabama and the entire southern United  States.

Classes began on September 16, 1925, with 42 students enrolled in the  inaugural class. Four courses were available: printing, electricity,  bricklaying and cabinetmaking. All students lived in the newly  constructed dormitory equipped with modern conveniences such as steam  heat and plumbing that featured hot and cold running water. Students  helped government workmen lay bricks to build the school's first  permanent two-story buildings.

The Alabama School of Trades continued to thrive as a training center  for the area's technical industry with increasing student enrollment  and course offerings. In 1942, courses were converted to War Training.  At the close of World War II, new courses were added to help veterans  re-enter the workforce such as: Radio, TV, Auto Mechanics, Machine  Shop, Refrigeration, Drafting, Photography, Upholstery, Auto Body,  Barbering, General Farm Dairy, Poultry and Heavy Equipment.

In 1973, the school's name was changed to the Alabama Technical  College and began offering associate in applied technology degrees. In  1985, the Alabama Technical College merged with Gadsden State Community  College and is now known as the East Broad Campus. It is home to many  of Gadsden State's workforce development programs such as Precision  Machining, Mechanical Design, Industrial Automation, Welding,  Electrical, Electronic Technology, Salon/Spa, Court Reporting, Truck  Driving, Skid Steer Training, Certified Nursing Assistant, Phlebotomy  and Civil Engineering.

As a result of mergers and expansion of services, Gadsden State is  now a sprawling Community College with five campuses including East  Broad, Wallace Drive, Valley Street (HBCU), Ayers and Cherokee. Gadsden  State serves Etowah, Calhoun, Cleburne, Cherokee and St. Clair counties  in northeast Alabama. There are 70 programs of study offered to over  5,000 students.

Mr. Speaker, please join me in wishing Gadsden State Community  College a happy 100th anniversary.