Recognizing the Retirement of Mayor Gary Fuller


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  retirement of Gary Fuller, Mayor of the City of Opelika, Alabama.

Mayor Fuller has tirelessly served the City of Opelika for over 20  years. He served on the City Council from 2000 to 2004 and was first  elected Mayor August 24, 2004.

As Mayor, he established Opelika as the first gig city in Alabama. He  helped establish a first-class Pre-K program and helped with plans to  renovate Opelika High School. He led the charge for a new sports  complex, library, fire department, police building and municipal court  facility.

He was instrumental in the development of the Tiger Town shopping  district and revitalization of Opelika's downtown. Because of the  influx of citizens, over 2,500 new single-family homes have been built.  He created the Commission on Crime & Violence in 2018 to help decrease  crime.

A graduate of Southern Union State Community College, Fuller was  President and CEO of Fuller Broadcasting Company, Inc. from 1985 until  1998. His six stations (WKKR, WMXA, WZMG, WTLM, WCJM and WPLV) received  numerous awards for community service and local news coverage. In 1988,  WZMG and WKKR became the first stations in Alabama to earn the National  Association of Broadcasters Crystal Award for community service. He was  also Managing General Partner for Fuller Properties, LTD and former  host of the Lee County Report.

He's served as past President of The United Way of Lee County,  Opelika Rotary Club and The Opelika Chamber of Commerce. He has served  as past director of Opelika Dixie Youth Baseball, Opelika Main Street,  Opelika Utilities Board, Opelika Arts Association, Lee County Salvation  Army, Achievement Center Easter Seals, Chattahoochee Council Boy Scouts  of America, Chattahoochee Historical Commission and Boys & Girls Clubs  of Greater Lee County.

Mayor Fuller has served the Alabama Municipal Electric Authority  (Chairman), Alabama League of Municipalities (Past President), Alabama  Monument Protection (Vice Chair), Auburn-Opelika Tourism Bureau, Lee- Russell Council of Governments, Opelika Planning Commission, Auburn  University Regional Airport, Master Mason and member of Twin City Lodge  No. 76, Emeritus Certified Municipal Official by League of  Municipalities, National League of Cities Christian Public Officials  Caucus, Julius E. Talton Endowed Program Support Fund and University of  Alabama College of Communication and Information Sciences.

He received the Rotary International Paul Harris Fellow, Opelika  Exchange Club Book of Golden Deeds Award, Opelika Chamber of Commerce,  ``Small Businessperson of the Year'' and Chancellor's Award Outstanding  Alumni--Southern Union State Community College. He is married to his  wife, Laura, and has two children. The Fullers are active members of  First Methodist of Opelika.

Mr. Speaker, please join me in recognizing my friend, Mayor Fuller,  and thanking him for his service to the City of Opelika.  Congratulations to Mayor Fuller.