Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Madam Chair, despite all the promises on  the campaign trail, House Republicans have chosen to do three things  with their majority: raise the cost of putting food on the table, raise  the cost of getting healthcare, and use that money, deserving  taxpayers' money, to cut billionaires' taxes. That is it. That is the  agenda.

Let's look at the scale of what Republicans are sacrificing: funding  that feeds 15 million children, a program that pays for half of all the  births in America, and a service that keeps nursing homes and health  centers' doors open. This is all to cut Elon's taxes.

If that sounds outrageous to you, Madam Chair, and I sure hope it  does, you are not alone.

Let's be clear about the kind of money we are talking about. Do you  know what it costs to keep a kid on Medicaid? It costs $10 a day. How  about how much it costs to keep that child fed with SNAP benefits? It  costs $6 a day.

What do Republicans want to give away to the already rich? They want  to give $6 million per billionaire. Think about that. For a  billionaire, $6 million is not even a rounding error. For a hungry  child, it is enough to eat every single day for 34 lifetimes.

Inflicting hunger on children to give billionaires money they don't  need and won't even notice, there is no moral code under which that is  acceptable. There is no public demand for it. There is no logical  reason for it other than total fealty to billionaire donors,  billionaires who will never feel they have enough.

I will close with a family that has been on my mind, a mom-to-be who  is 5 months pregnant. She and her husband are happy. They are in love,  and they are excited for their daughter to arrive. Every month, their  budget is tight. They get a little bit of help from food pantries, but  sometimes, even if they arrive by 6 a.m., the food is already gone.  Without the SNAP program, the mom said: I honestly don't know what we  would do. I honestly don't know what we would do.

Every Republican has a choice to make with this vote. Will they vote  to keep that mom and her daughter fed, or will they keep padding the  pockets of those who will not even notice?

The American people can forgive a lot, but they will not forgive this  betrayal.