Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, today is not about ICE  funding. Republicans already gave ICE $75 billion. Today is about the  fact that we have a masked paramilitary force terrorizing our  communities.

Republicans had the opportunity in this bill to enact commonsense  checks on ICE operations. They refused.

First, they refused to ensure ICE abides by the same laws and  procedures as our local and State police: that they are unmasked when  on duty, that they actually wear the body cameras, that they wear a  name plate identifying who they are, and that they are held responsible  for excessive force.

Second, the GOP refused to join us in upholding the Constitution. Not  only are these arrests warrantless, but ICE has also now determined  they have the right to search your home without a judicial warrant.  That is illegal, and it is unconstitutional.

Third, they refused to make sure that the use of deadly force is  always  thoroughly investigated. When Renee Good was shot to death, Kristi Noem  declared her a domestic terrorist within hours. The only investigation  Noem was interested in was an investigation into Renee Good's widow.  That is not justice. That is not security for the American people.

Fourth, Republicans refused to agree to the simple concept that  American citizens should not be detained and deported. The people going  about their business should not be kidnapped because of the color of  their skin or because they are engaging in peaceful protests.

Finally, Republicans refused to prioritize the very real work that  DHS does in our communities: stopping fentanyl trafficking, stopping  child trafficking, and stopping cartels. DHS is taking those  investigators off those cases and putting them on ICE raids. It is at  the expense of our national security.

When the GOP can't even agree to commonsense guardrails, it is clear  this isn't about immigration. This isn't about security. This is about  state-sanctioned terror. This is about the political retribution of a  vengeful President.

I will not rubberstamp the Federal Government's use of political  violence against its own people, and I am asking every Member to join  me in voting ``no.''