Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. DEAN of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chair, I thank Ranking Member DeLauro  and Chairman Cole, and my sincere sympathies to Chair Womack and his  family on the passing of his beautiful wife.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of the negotiated fiscal year 2026  appropriations package for Labor-Health and Human Services-Education,  for Defense, and for Transportation-Housing and Urban Development.

As a new member of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human  Services, Education, and Related Agencies, I am pleased to have  contributed to the development of this legislation. I thank my  colleagues on the Committee on Appropriations and the dedicated staff  for their tireless work.

Despite serving in the minority, Democrats on the Committee on  Appropriations have spent months fighting back against the Trump  administration's proposed cuts to critical programs that support our  healthcare systems and save lives. These efforts have made a  difference.

We secured $7.4 billion for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health  Services Administration, SAMHSA, despite the administration's callous  attempt just 1 week ago to eliminate almost all discretionary grant  funding for the agency. I am pleased to say that Congress exercised  its constitutional power of the purse and rejected cuts to an agency  that serves as the backbone of our Nation's response to the mental  health and addiction crises, which continue to take too many lives in  America.

We restored funding for homeless prevention programs, peer support  services, and mental health workforce training, and we secured funding  increases for State opioid response grants and the 988 Suicide and  Crisis Lifeline.

In addition, we successfully removed more than 20 partisan policy  riders from the L-HHS bill, riders that would have defunded Planned  Parenthood, blocked gun violence prevention research, and threatened  the safety and dignity of immigrant and LGBTQ communities.

These bills are far from perfect, but they send a strong message to  this administration: Make America Healthy Again cannot coexist with  attempts to cut public health programs, and Congress will continue to  assert our power of the purse and impose necessary checks on the  administration.

The Defense and T-HUD portions of this bill also make important  investments toward our public health.

Ms. DEAN of Pennsylvania. The Defense bill restores funding for  Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs of $1.3 billion  following massive cuts in fiscal year 2025. Further, it includes over  $100 million for PFAS remediation efforts at military installations.

The T-HUD bill includes $295 million for Lead Hazard Reduction and  Healthy Homes grants.

More generally, we know housing is healthcare. This bill provides $74  billion in discretionary spending for housing programs.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this  package, and I thank the chairman and the ranking member.