Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696935/common-sense-law-enforcement-and-accountability-now-in-dc-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I stand tonight to strongly oppose this bill, which  repeals commonsense criminal justice reforms that were passed by D.C.'s  elected representatives in the wake of George Floyd and the Black Lives  Matter movement.

Mr. Speaker, we know that cities and communities all over the country  passed similar reforms to increase trust, accountability, and safety.  In D.C., these measures increased accountability for bad apples with  independent civilian oversight, clean disciplinary process, and  mandatory reporting for overuse of force incidents.

It prohibited the hiring of officers with prior misconduct, and it  prohibited choke holds. They improved training for officers. The Mayor,  the D.C. City Council, and the community all worked together to pass a  series of reforms and laws, work they were proud of. They empower the  chief of police to lead the police department and do it the right way.

This bill repeals all of that. It would damage the trust between D.C.  police and the communities they protect and serve.

We know communities are safer when residents feel safe calling on 911  and when they feel safe working with the police. We know policies like  de-escalation, expanding body-worn cameras, and improving safety should  not move backwards.

This bill is opposed by D.C. residents. It is opposed by the Mayor of  D.C. It is opposed by the D.C. City Council, and it is opposed by  D.C.'s Member of Congress. This is part of my Republican colleagues'  continued obsession with acting as a super city council for the  District of Columbia.

Mr. Speaker, D.C., again, has more residents than two States. D.C.  taxpayers pay Federal taxes. D.C., as a whole, contributes more Federal  taxes than 26 other States. D.C.'s government should be allowed to  govern themselves, to hold local leaders accountable, to elect their  own leadership, and to solve problems without Congress consistently  interfering.

We should always continue to support D.C. and their ability to govern  themselves. Congress should focus on national issues and let the  residents of D.C. and their local representatives govern the District.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Norton).

Again, I strongly oppose this bill. As a reminder, it would eliminate  commonsense criminal justice reforms that have been widely implemented  by State and local governments across the country.

Local officials here in D.C. passed these laws. The voters made these  decisions, and D.C. should have a right to govern itself.

This bill undermines trust between police and the community they  serve and makes us all less safe.

It is undemocratic. It could very well make D.C. not just less safe  but also lose trust between its elected government and the people. When  the people come together and pass laws, Congress should not overturn  those.

Mr. Speaker, again, I urge opposition, and I yield back the balance  of my time.