Condemning the Attacks on Minnesota Lawmakers in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota, and Calling for Unity and the Rejection of Political Violence in Minnesota and Across the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692858/condemning-the-attacks-on-minnesota-lawmakers-in-brooklyn-park-and-champlin-minnesota-and-calling-for-unity-and-the-rejection-of-political-violence-in-minnesota-and-across-the-united-states


Mr. Speaker, I thank first the entire Minnesota delegation, in  particular Congresswoman Morrison for introducing this important  resolution. This is obviously a very sad time across our country, and  of course our hearts and our prayers go to the family, and everyone  impacted across the State.

I know that the events of June 14 were shocking and heartbreaking.  Minnesota State House Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman and her husband,  Mark Hortman, were assassinated. Minnesota State Senator John Hoffman  and his wife, Yvette, were critically injured.

I offer my love on behalf of this Congress and those across the  country who have been impacted by these crimes, who have seen these  crimes, and who all reject this political violence.

I want to take this time to thank State, Federal, and local law  enforcement for their tireless work to bring the perpetrator to  justice.

We should be clear: Political violence against anyone is an attack on  our democracy and all of us.

We know that the shooter committed this terrible crime to terrorize  and intimidate. He intended to spread his hate and violence toward many  more public servants. The gunman had documents listing dozens of  additional lawmakers targeted for assassination or for violence,  including Congressman Krishnamoorthi who, of course, is a member of our  Oversight Committee.

We have seen how our Members of Congress are facing more and more  threats, but we cannot and will not be silent. It is important that we  continue to push back against hate, fear, division, and misinformation  in a bipartisan way.

Every elected official at every level must loudly call out and  denounce these attacks because acts of political violence like these  are a fundamental threat to our democracy.

Today, we will come together in a bipartisan way to condemn these  senseless attacks and reject political violence.

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Morrison), the author of this  resolution.

Mr. GARCIA of California.  McCollum).

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Craig).

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Omar).

Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, we can all agree that  political violence should be condemned whenever it happens. Public  servants must be able to do their jobs and represent their constituents  without fear. It is good to hear this bipartisan support today. Of  course, our prayers and our thoughts are with everyone impacted.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of the resolution, and I yield back  the balance of my time.

Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.