Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699683/disapproving-the-action-of-the-district-of-columbia-council-in-approving-the-dc-income-and-franchise-tax-conformity-and-revision-temporary-amendment-act-of-2025


Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Frost  for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I also strongly oppose this resolution, which is yet  another attack on the rights of over 700,000 D.C. residents.

This is the 10th bill that House Republicans are considering to  either repeal or amend local D.C. laws. We know that D.C. has more  residents than two States, pays more in Federal taxes than 26 States,  and more per capita than any State as it relates to paying those taxes.

D.C.'s locally elected officials are accountable to D.C. residents,  and local leaders should be empowered to address local matters without  Congress interfering.

I have said this many times before, but issues like this go straight  to the heart of representation. It repeals a tax law which the D.C.  Council passed unanimously. The act created a child tax credit and  expanded the earned income tax credit. These credits will significantly  reduce child poverty in D.C.

D.C.'s act temporarily paused several provisions of Trump's larger  bill from applying to D.C.'s tax code. Now, H.J. Res. 142 will deprive  D.C. of $600 million in revenue over the next 4 years. This could force  D.C. to cut public safety and education, and certainly impact its  ability to serve the community. The threat of a budget crisis will  increase borrowing costs for D.C., forcing more of the city revenue to  go toward interest payments than actually helping people, as happened  when Republicans cut D.C.'s local budget by about a billion dollars  last year.

H.J. Res. 142 will also cause chaos in the D.C. tax filing season,  which has already begun. Trump's Department of Homeland Security is  doing horrific things across the country. The DOJ is defying the law to  withhold the Epstein files. We are dealing with a cost-of-living crisis  across the country. Instead, today, we are debating to vote to actually  increase child poverty within the District of Columbia.

We strongly oppose this. Instead of actually acting like a super city  council for D.C., we should be considering issues like D.C. statehood.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose H.J. Res. 142.