District of Columbia Policing Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695640/district-of-columbia-policing-protection-act


Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this bill, which would overrule rules  implemented by D.C.'s elected leaders on when Metropolitan Police  officers should pursue a fleeing car.

Our debate here is a perfect example of why D.C. needs self-rule. We  should be clear. High-speed chases are deadly. They often end in  needless deaths, injuries, and devastating property damage.

Over 3,000 people died in police car chases in the U.S. between 2017  and 2022. Half of those deaths were innocent bystanders not involved in  the chase. I will repeat. Half of the people who have died in police  car chases were innocent bystanders. That should alarm every single one  of us.

Across the country, Republican-led States have recognized the dangers  of high-speed cases. States like Texas, Florida, and Tennessee have all  implemented tighter standards to limit pursuits of violent criminals or  imminent threats. They know the risks are too high for people who are  innocent or could get caught up in one of these car crashes. That is  the best practice, and D.C. is following the same path.

But my Republican colleagues want to interfere. They want to lower  the standards to allow for more chases and more innocent people getting  hurt.

I will remind us that this District is dense. Sidewalks oftentimes  are small. Streets are tight. There are a lot of folks who live here.  We should not have a one-size-fits-all policy for D.C. We should allow  the people of D.C. to decide when a car chase is appropriate.

Congress should not require D.C. police to use tactics that the  community does not want. D.C. residents should be empowered to decide  when to authorize their police to use dangerous tactics.

Under current D.C. law, pursuits are allowed if a fleeing suspect has  committed a violent crime, for example, or poses an imminent threat to  public safety and if the pursuit can be done in a way that minimizes  the risk to innocent people.

We should not lower these standards, and certainly not with zero  community input and no consultation with the D.C. Council, Mayor, or  other folks who are actually trying to manage this city.

There are many tools, we know, that police officers can use to track  suspects and make arrests. We should let the Council, the Mayor, and  the police work together with the D.C. police to balance public safety,  pedestrian safety, and proportionality. If D.C. residents don't like  it, they can vote their elected officials out of office.

Today, Congress is again injecting itself as some sort of super city  council to write laws for Washington, D.C. As a former mayor of 8  years, I worked with over 700 amazing men and women of a police  department who were heroic in the work that they did. I know that, in  conversations with our chief, our police officers, and our community,  these decisions are best left to our communities to write the laws of  when these police chases should actually go into effect.

While I appreciate the author and my friend, this bill, I believe, is  unnecessary. It undermines home rule, and it will make D.C. less safe.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose it, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. Higgins) also  for his service in law enforcement. I know that he is trying to help  and trying to move public safety forward. I know that is his intention,  but I just want to clarify a few things.

It has been mentioned that this committee or this bill has somehow  been heard by a committee. We have not held a hearing on these bills.  To clarify, our hearing on D.C. is actually tomorrow. There has been no  coordination with the Mayor or the D.C. Council. They oppose this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I will clarify. It has been mentioned a few times when  we have debated this bill that there are somehow 14 criteria that  officers have to consider before engaging in a pursuit.

The law is very clear. The suspect must have ``committed or attempted  to commit a crime of violence, or poses an imminent threat of death or  serious bodily injury,'' and the pursuit is ``necessary to protect  another person'' from ``serious bodily injury''; and not likely to  cause injury to others; and ``all other options have been exhausted or  do not reasonably lend themselves to the circumstances.'' That is  actually what the law says.

I just wanted to note that. I am not sure what those 14 criteria are.

Norton).

I strongly oppose this bill. D.C.'s elected leaders have set clear,  commonsense limits on high-speed chases and limits that save lives. I  just remind folks that States like Texas, Florida, and Tennessee  recognize the danger and restrict pursuits to violent crimes or  imminent deaths, and D.C. follows that same practice.

Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.