District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696980/district-of-columbia-cash-bail-reform-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose the legislation which is in front of  us, which is another completely unacceptable attack on the District and  on democratic principles.

We know that D.C. has more residents than two States. D.C. pays more  Federal taxes than 26 States. D.C.'s government is accountable to the  people who live here. Local leadership should be empowered to solve  problems without Congress constantly interfering.

I have said many times if Donald Trump wants to run D.C., he should  resign and run for Mayor. If Republicans want to get tough on crime,  they should stop protecting the criminals in the Epstein files and  demand transparency from Donald Trump. Let's talk about the bill in  front of us today.

We know the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act is unfair and  bad policy. Under this bill, if someone is charged with certain crimes,  he will automatically be locked up before his trial. For other crimes,  this bill would require cash bail or bond.

This will make D.C.'s local law much more strict that even Federal  law. Pretrial release should be based on a judge's determination of  flight risk and danger to the community. We should let trained judges  and prosecutors do their jobs and consider each fact of each case.

A person shouldn't automatically be locked up based on a criminal  charge before he is even proven to be guilty. We know in our system  that a person is innocent until proven guilty. We know that should be  true whether that person is rich or poor.

This bill will lock up more low-income people and more people who are  also innocent. It will reinforce an unfair system where the rich get  perks, while the poor suffer.

Democrats are fighting for a system where wealthy elites aren't above  the law but where the justice system is fair for all. We are fighting  for democracy.

We should let the council, the Mayor, and the District's justice  system work together as they balance the public safety needs of the  people. When D.C. residents don't like local policies, they can demand  different policies from their elected leaders and certainly vote them  out of office.

This bill is not about safety but about Congress once again  interfering in local safety decisions by D.C. residents who are  perfectly capable of making these decisions on their own.

We should be clear. This bill is also opposed by the Mayor, the city  council, and many in the community. It is an overreach by the  Republican majority to try to control the District.

Mr. Speaker, the bill is unnecessary. It undermines home rule, and it  can make D.C. less safe. I urge my colleagues to oppose it.

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Norton).

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Stansbury).

Mr. Speaker, I, once again, urge our colleagues to oppose this bill.  D.C. has a right and its residents have a right to govern themselves  and elect mayors and council members that choose to pass laws to  support the District. Congress should not be undermining local laws.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans want to make it easier to lock up poor  defendants pretrial, undermining the fundamental American principle of  innocent until proven guilty, all while stripping 700,000 residents of  self-rule. Congress should not dictate local judicial policy.

Mr. Speaker, we should oppose these bills, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.