Lowering Age At Which A Minor May Be Tried As Adult for Certain Criminal Offenses in District of Columbia


Mr. Speaker, once again, we are back with a second bill to undermine  Washington, D.C., with an undemocratic and misguided policy.

Republicans in Congress are once more acting again as a city council  for D.C., overriding the choices of local residents and their elected  officials, while ignoring the real issues the rest of the country  faces.

Nearly 700,000 taxpaying Americans in D.C. deserve the same right to  self-governance as every other community including control over  criminal laws.

Democrats on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform  strongly oppose this bill, which would allow children as young as 14  years old to be charged as adults. Let's be clear. This bill is not  about safety. It is about stripping away judicial discretion and  sending more children into the adult prison system.

This bill lowers the age at which children can be tried as adults in  D.C. from 16 to 14 years old for certain crimes. If a crime is  committed, a person should be held accountable. We all can agree on  this. A 14-year-old is not an adult. They are middle schoolers. Their  brains are still developing. Treating them as adults is shameful.

We can all agree that children should be treated differently by our  courts. That matters when it comes to accountability and  rehabilitation. Here is what the research shows.

Youth charged as adults are more likely to reoffend than youth that  go through the juvenile courts. That is not speculation. It is what  decades of data show.

The CDC reviewed the evidence and found that sending kids to adult  prisons increases violence and does not reduce it. The National  Research Council concluded that keeping punishment in line with age is  the best way to prevent future offending. Every shred of research says  the same thing. Putting kids in adult prison makes us less safe, not  more safe.

House Democrats know that violent crime, of course, has no place in  our communities. People are right to be concerned about crime.  Democrats are taking it seriously. If the goal is safer communities,  this bill moves us in the wrong direction.

Mr. Speaker, let's also talk about who this bill impacts. More than  93 percent of youth arrests in D.C. in the first half of this year were  Black youth. D.C. already has the highest youth incarceration rate in  the country. It is more than three times the national average. This  bill would take those discrepancies and make them worse, funneling even  more children into the adult system.

The bottom line is simple. The legislation in front of us would not  make us safer. It does not make D.C. safer. It makes D.C. less safe. It  will deepen racial disparities. It will push more kids into adult  prisons where they are more likely to come out worse off than they were  and not better. If we care about public safety, the last thing we  should do is put 14-year-olds in adult prison.

Instead of taking power away from D.C. residents and our elected  officials, Congress should focus on real national priorities like  addressing gun violence that threatens communities, threatens schools,  and threatens our cities every single day.

Finally, the rules in front of us have been created through the  incredible work of the community, through hearings, through meetings,  and through public testimony. Let's not all throw it out now. This bill  is not about making D.C. safer.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Norton).

Mr. GARCIA of California.  Pressley).

I remind our Republican colleagues that crime in D.C. over the last  few years has actually been going down. Quite frankly, the idea that we  are now going to put middle schoolers in prison--this should be called  the middle schoolers for prison act--is inhumane and shameful.

We can all agree that crime should be taken on, that D.C. and other  cities we want to make safer, but this idea that we are going to  penalize children in middle school at the age of 14 and put them in  prison is irresponsible and, quite frankly, it is un-American.

I remind my colleagues that at this moment, what we are doing right  now, is stripping 700,000 residents who have come together in D.C. to  create laws, to bring community together, to fight for statehood and  representation, we are going to strip them from their ability to manage  their own city.

These efforts do nothing to reduce crime or improve public safety.  Once again, I know that the President is obsessed with Washington, D.C.  He is obsessed with its local laws. I ask him once again that he should  step down as President and run for mayor if he is so interested. Let's  not put 14-year-olds in prison.

Mr. Speaker, I oppose passage of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.