Release the Epstein Files


Mr. GARCIA of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to demand that  Donald Trump and our Attorney General come clean to the American people  and release the Epstein files.

Now, this weekend, Donald Trump said: ``Let's . . . not waste time  and energy on Jeffrey Epstein, somebody that nobody cares about.''

Well, Mr. President, a lot of people actually care. We know that MAGA  was all in on Jeffrey Epstein. My Republican colleagues have sent  letters, they have posted, and they have demanded disclosure. Donald  Trump, Jr., the President's own son, has tweeted dozens of times about  this case.

FBI Director Kash Patel swore under oath in front of the Senate that  he would be transparent with the American public and release the  Epstein files. He said: ``Make sure the American public knows the full  weight of what happened.''

He said that he would do that. That was his quote.

Now, in February, Attorney General Pam Bondi told FOX News that  Epstein's client list is: ``Sitting on my desk right now to review.''

Now, they claim there was never a list. This weekend, Donald Trump  claimed that the files were written by Obama, Hillary Clinton, and the  Biden administration.

These are bizarre reversals. It is obvious to the American public  that someone is lying, and someone is trying to hide something.

Let's look at the facts. We know Elon Musk said publicly on June 5  that Donald Trump is mentioned in the Epstein files. We know that  Epstein died in a Federal prison overseen by Donald Trump's Department  of Justice. We know that Jeffrey Epstein in 2008 was given a generous  nonprosecution agreement for sex trafficking charges. That agreement  let him continue his criminal activities, and that agreement was  offered by Alexander Acosta, who is Donald Trump's chosen Secretary of  Labor.

That is not all. We know that Donald Trump and Epstein had a  longstanding personal relationship. Epstein told one writer: ``I was  Donald Trump's closest friend for 10 years.''

Donald Trump told New York magazine in 2002: ``I've known Jeff for 15  years. Terrific guy. He's a lot of fun to be with. It is even said that  he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the  younger side. No doubt about it, Jeffrey enjoys his social life.''

That is disgusting, wrong, and we must require more information. The  truth is, we don't know what the facts are in this case.

I can't explain why the Trump administration has changed their minds  on Epstein, but their behavior raises questions. This is the time that  we must demand answers, and the Oversight Committee is going to do just  that.