Breaking the Gridlock Act


Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to point out before I get to my  prepared remarks that Leader Jeffries just said  that we need to fix our broken healthcare system. It is a healthcare  system put into place by the Democrats. It is a healthcare system  extended by the Democrats. The proposal today will do nothing to extend  anything but the failures of the past. It will not fix the broken  system they put in place.

Mr. Speaker, that is why I rise today in opposition to this  Democratic discharge petition. It is fiscally irresponsible and fails  to address the waste, fraud, and abuse of ObamaCare while ignoring the  real problems in our healthcare system and ignoring the fact that these  temporary COVID-era enhanced subsidies have done nothing but pad the  profits of big insurance companies and drive up the very premiums that  they purport to reduce.

Mr. Speaker, let's look at the facts more closely. First, ObamaCare  has yet to deliver on the promises made to Americans over a decade ago.  Since the ACA was enacted, premiums have increased by roughly 80  percent. Guess what. Ninety percent of that increase has been paid for  by the taxpayers.

It is important to note that these premium tax credits are sent  directly to insurance companies, not the taxpayers, and it is no secret  why. The ACA was written by insurance companies to benefit insurance  companies, and it has served to drive up the stock price for those  insurance companies by more than 1,000 percent since the ACA came into  existence.

Meanwhile, families face out-of-pocket costs exceeding $20,000 a year  and a 95-percent increase in their premiums over that same time period.  This is hardly a coincidence in a system designed to reward the  insurers, not the patient.

Let's not forget that today's proposed extension of these pandemic- era tax credits only relates to the 7 percent of Americans who are  actually enrolled in the ACA, not the other 93 percent of Americans who  are not participants in the failed ACA exchange. Of those 7 percent,  roughly one-half did not even use their coverage once last year. Yet,  the Democrats want to pour more money into a failing ACA program at a  cost of $400 billion.

Far too often, Mr. Speaker, taxpayers have been left paying the bill  for a broken system that lacks proper guardrails and has been grossly  mismanaged. The ACA is just another example of this, and we should not  spend more money to prop up a failing program, certainly not a COVID- era, temporary program that they put in place and they, the Democrats,  set to expire this year.

Waste, fraud, and abuse in this program cannot be ignored. My fellow  colleagues have gone over that today in large measure, but today,  Congress is being asked to pass a clean 3-year extension and to  continue to prop up this madness and to prop up the waste, fraud, and  abuse. This cannot stand. The Democratic-backed Big Insurance business  model is clear: charge excessive premiums to get excessive profits,  deny coverage to patients, and shift costs onto both patients and  providers.

This has to end, and I urge my colleagues to oppose this measure.