-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689022/9999


Ms. ALSOBROOKS. Mr. President, at 1:28 a.m. on March 26, 2024--a year  ago tonight--a tragedy struck Maryland. A container ship crashed into  the Francis Scott Key Bridge. While many were asleep, the Key Bridge  collapsed into the icy waters.

Although struck with fear and shock, Team Maryland didn't hesitate.  We jumped into action right away and got to work.

We have this phrase--``Team Maryland''--that we have been saying for  years, but it is true. We work as a team, one of the strongest teams in  the country--a coordinated effort between our Federal delegation, our  Governor, and our county executives and mayors on the local level. It  is true in good times, it is true when we face adversity, and it was  never truer than we saw 1 year ago today.

Governor Moore and Mayor Scott raced to the bridge. Our Federal  delegation immediately started asking questions, pushing for funding to  rebuild. County executives across the State, like me at the time, sent  our resources and our first responders to help with rescue efforts. We  are so grateful we had a President and administration willing to help.

Team Maryland is just that--a team. We have always been, and we  always will be. That is how you get through moments of crisis-- together. And we have stayed as a team every day since the collapse of  the bridge, working together in coordination to ensure we can rebuild.

Our teamwork in the face of a crisis is proof of how your government  should work for you: jumping into action when tragedy strikes, asking  questions, demanding answers, and rebuilding--doing what needs to be  done on behalf of the people.

Team Maryland responded quickly and capably, but we lost a lot that  morning, none more priceless than the six lives that perished: Maynor  Yassir Suazo Sandoval, Miguel Angel Luna Gonzalez, Jose Mynor Lopez,  Alejandro Hernandez Fuentes, Dorlian Ronial Castillo Cabrera, and  Carlos Daniel Hernandez. They are irreplaceable. Their names are  forever remembered--six hard-working men devoted to their community,  beloved by their families, and forever Marylanders in our hearts.

Maynor was a father of a 5-year-old daughter and an 18-year-old son.  He moved from Honduras to America in search of a better life for his  family, a life that included working through the nights to repair our  infrastructure--all in the name of building a better life for his wife  and two children.

Maynor had dreams of one day owning a small business. He would say:  You had to triple your efforts to get ahead.

He said: It didn't matter what time or where the job was; you had to  be where the work was.

Maynor's outlook reminds me of my own father, who worked as a  newspaper deliveryman and a car salesman. I once went to work with my  dad on a very early morning, delivering newspapers.

He said to me: You know, I hop up and down on this dirty truck every  morning so you don't have to.

Just like my own father, Maynor worked day in and day out, hard and  long hours, to build a better life for his family.

Miguel was a Marylander for more than 19 years. He made such an  impact on his State and community. A husband to Maria and a father of  three, Miguel was known for his kind and hard-working spirit.

Miguel and Maria had a food truck in Glen Burnie. Just days before  Miguel's tragic death, he brought Maria, his wife, to a storefront they  soon planned to rent to continue to build their business. His coworkers  remember him fondly as always wanting to share his food with them.

Jose moved to the United States from Guatemala over two decades ago.  His life surrounded his family--his wife Isabel and his children.

Alejandro was a man of faith, just like me and so many others in this  Chamber. He was active in his church and devoted to his loving family.  A father of four, Alejandro was a big personality. Some even described  him as a ``fireball.''

Dorlian moved from Guatemala to the United States to pursue his  dreams and to help his mother. He was only 26 years old.

Carlos came from Mexico, seeking a better life, and was willing to  work hard for it. He was only 24 years old--taken from us far too soon.

Six individual lives, connected to their coworkers through service,  connected to their families through love, connected to our community  through their work to make our infrastructure stronger--1 year later,  we remember their loss. They are greatly missed. One year later, their  families and communities are still grieving. May we continue to pray  for their strength and peace.

We also remember the two men, including Julio Adrian Cervantes  Suarez, who miraculously survived the devastating collapse.

As Julio was falling into the Patapsco River, he prayed to God,  giving thanks, asking for protection over his wife and family and  asking for forgiveness. Determined to survive, he was able to hang onto  a piece of the bridge to stay afloat. He immediately started calling  for his coworkers, including his brother-in-law and his 18-year-old  nephew, who, unfortunately, lost their lives.

Thanks to a light on his work helmet, which he was still wearing in  the water, search boats were able to rescue him. Today, he continues to  keep the memories of his coworkers and friends alive.

These men were essential workers, working the dangerous jobs that  build and strengthen our State's infrastructure. It is in their loving  memory that we dedicate our own efforts to rebuilding the Key Bridge.

When the bridge collapsed on that early morning, people across the  globe immediately predicted our economy would crash. One of the world's  biggest ports was instantly shut off to traffic, and we would be  challenged to recover. But Team Maryland proved them wrong. We were  quickly and efficiently able to perform a controlled demolition in May.  By June, we reopened the Fort McHenry Federal Channel and the Port of  Baltimore, and last month, we revealed the design for the new Key  Bridge--the State's first cable-style bridge--which will stand 40 feet  taller than the original bridge and is set to open as soon as fall  2028.

Some may doubt our ability to rebuild. Team Maryland will prove them  wrong again.

Now, we still have a lot of work to do to get to fall 2028, but we  are in this together on every level. Here in the Senate, I will use my  position as ranking member of the Environment and Public  Works' Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee to ensure that  the funding is implemented as intended.

Thanks to the leadership of Senator Cardin, Senator Van Hollen, and  our entire Maryland delegation, the Baltimore BRIDGE Relief Act was  included in last year's continuing resolution and ensured Congress is  now committed to covering the full cost of replacing the bridge. The  Baltimore BRIDGE Relief Act promises that Federal taxpayers will be  reimbursed through proceeds from insurance payments and litigation  taken on by the Department of Justice, the Maryland attorney general,  and others. It also includes critical funding for the Federal Highway  Administration Emergency Relief Fund to provide this project and others  around the country with the resources they need. This is the Federal  Government working effectively for our State in a time of disaster, as  it should.

Team Maryland won't stop fighting for our State. I am proud of what  we have accomplished and am proud of what we will continue to do. We  will rebuild, and we won't rest until it is done. We won't rest because  we are doing it all for Maryland--for the six Marylanders who lost  their lives that day, the brave Marylanders who dove into the frigid  water during the rescue operation, the strong Marylanders whose  businesses and livelihoods were impacted by the collapse, the  Marylanders who depend on our port for resources, the Marylanders who  count on our infrastructure to stand tall.

When it is completed, we will serve as an example to the Nation and  the world of what teamwork and togetherness can achieve.