Department of Health and Human Services


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688252/department-of-health-and-human-services


Ms. ALSOBROOKS. Mr. President, I would like to use my time to  highlight the attacks currently being thrown at our Federal workers and  the unconscionable firings that are taking place.

We have heard baseless and callous criticisms of our Federal workers  from this administration for weeks now. They are wrong, and much of  what they are built on is a lie. And they are dehumanizing.

This is, in fact, a witch hunt. Our civil servants are among the best  of what our Nation has to offer. They serve with no political  motivation. Many have served for years under Democratic administrations  and Republican administrations. They have one dedication: to their  fellow Americans. It is a patriotic calling that they have all  answered. They are not faceless villains. They are real people with  real stories.

People like a woman I spoke with who has served at the Department of  Health and Human Services for over 35 years, she has been put on leave  as a part of the President's Executive orders. For her and people like  her, to be caught up in these partisan attacks is infuriating.

The administration claims to be doing this in the name of efficiency.  There is nothing efficient about gaining unauthorized access to private  data and then blindly firing 5,200 employees across multiple Agencies.  There is nothing competent about cutting the workforce without any  thought about how it would impact operations.

This is not efficient. This is senseless, and this is heartless.

NIH is based in my State of Maryland, and many of the workers there  are among the 150,000 civil servants who call Maryland home. Each one  of them has made a commitment to public service. Each one of them is a  civil servant that I am proud to represent. These abrupt and improper  firings have shaken up the lives of thousands of dedicated workers who  do not deserve this treatment. And what makes this even worse is that  attacking our Federal workers doesn't just hurt them; it hurts all  Americans, the people who rely on government programs to keep them  healthy and safe.

These aren't hypothetical concerns. These firings will have real- world consequences. Eliminating staff at NIH will delay the development  and approval of lifesaving treatments. Cancer patients will have to  wait longer for promising new treatments as clinical trials still stall  due to staffing shortages. This will slowly eliminate research and  medical intervention and weaken our standing in global biomedical  science.

Cuts to an already understaffed CMS workforce will hurt patient care.  We will see disruptions in medically necessary care and delays in  payments to hospitals and other healthcare providers. Firing staff at  HHS will cripple our ability to quickly identify and respond to public  health threats. And right now, we are experiencing the worst flu season  in over 15 years, resulting in school closures in at least 10 States.  We are monitoring an outbreak of Ebola in Uganda. We are keeping track  of the growing threat of avian influenza.

Without a strong workforce, we will not be able to react effectively.  It is impossible to forget the significant role that NIH plays in  developing and deploying vaccines and treatments. We are just beyond  the clutches of the last major public health crisis. And without a  strong workforce, we will not be prepared to face the next pandemic.

In the clearest terms possible, these cuts aren't about efficiency.  To the American people, it quite literally could be the difference  between life and death. They are as direct a contradiction as you can  have of the priorities this administration claimed to set when they  took control--to ease burdens on families. Instead, these firings could  add enormous strain to a nation that is already in need of relief. They  are irresponsible, they are inefficient, and they are undeserved.

What our civil servants deserve is a recognition of the work they do  every day to make us stronger. What the American people deserve is for  us to keep our obligation to ensure their health and their safety. I  will continue to defend them and apply pressure to this administration  until it happens.