Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691450/guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act


Ms. ALSOBROOKS.  Res. 217 and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration;  that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and that  the motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table  with no intervening action or debate.

Ms. ALSOBROOKS. Thank you.

Ms. ALSOBROOKS. Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Secretary of Health and Human  Services, is presenting a clear and present danger to the health and  well-being of the American people. He oversees 13 Agencies that are  critical to U.S. health policy and the health of our Nation. One such  Agency, the National Institutes of Health, is the world's leading  Agency for public health research, and I am proud to represent many of  the scientists who work there as the Senator from Maryland. This is the  place that the Nation looks to for discoveries in public health. This  is where the world looks to to fight global health crises. This is the  beacon of American exceptionalism.

Over the last 40 years, NIH has helped reduce deaths from heart  disease by 75 percent, deaths from stroke are down 75 percent, and NIH  funding has led the fight to save countless lives with groundbreaking  discoveries. NIH is the greatest credit to sustaining medical research  in history.

But now, we are dealing with an administration that is a direct  threat to our health. Since Donald Trump has taken office, NIH has  fired 1,300 employees and has canceled more than $2 billion in Federal  research grants. He wants to cut the NIH budget by 40 percent, and  these cuts would be carried out by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., one of the  most unqualified individuals that we have seen to hold that position.

Secretary Kennedy took an oath to faithfully discharge the duties of  the office in which he was about to enter, and to this point, he has  utterly failed and is making Americans sicker.

Look at what he has done in just 4 months. We are currently watching  the largest single measles outbreak in our Nation in 25 years--25  years. There are 1,000 cases, and one-third of them are children  younger than 5 years old. Three people have died, including two young  children.

For years, Secretary Kennedy, without an ounce of medical training,  has spread lies and conspiracy theories about safe and effective  vaccines--vaccines that literally prevent measles. A qualified HHS  Secretary would highlight the effectiveness of vaccines and urge people  to continue getting vaccinated. A capable Secretary would have some  sense of compassion for suffering children. The Secretary we have,  instead, chose to downplay the deaths and encourage untested  treatments. This is dangerous. Americans will get sicker, and, in fact,  they already have.

Our Nation has made incredible gains in IVF and infertility  treatment, raising the birth rate through IVF dramatically over the  last 30 years, but just last month, Secretary Kennedy fired the entire  team at CDC who works on IVF and infertility research. Secretary  Kennedy fired most of the employees at the CDC's Division of  Reproductive Health, which helps to promote healthy pregnancies.  Secretary Kennedy fired staff at the Maternal and Child Health Bureau,  which oversees important programs that support children and pregnant  women.

Countless women across the country have become mothers thanks to the  incredible advancements in IVF, and a good number of this President's  women supporters supported him because he vowed to make the treatment  more accessible. How dare this man take that away from them.

Our Nation has made great progress in the fight to eliminate HIV and  AIDS, building on an understanding of how to treat the virus and  getting closer to finding a cure--until now. Secretary Kennedy has now  cut funding for dozens of HIV-related research grants.

Did you know that there is a National Firefighter Registry that was  set up to study the link between the hazards of the job and  firefighters developing cancers? Well, that registry has now been taken  down at Secretary Kennedy's bidding.

This is part of a heartless trend. They are destroying what decades  of research has built. The billions in funding cuts and thousands of  staff cuts threaten the race to find cures for Alzheimer's, ALS,  cancer, and other devastating illnesses. The impact will be felt far  beyond our borders, and it will be generational.

For decades, we have taken the lead on the global stage in research  and development. We have taken the lead in fighting global health  challenges. Many of the world's brightest researchers come here to join  the fight. The top research agencies around the world partner with us.  Public health is a responsibility that we must lead. R.F.K. is  singlehandedly destroying that reputation, setting us back potentially  decades.

The eyes of the world are on us. Most look to us to lead; some look  for us to stumble. But they are watching to see what we do. Having  Secretary Kennedy as the face of our Nation's health and research  operation sends a terrible  message to the rest of the world and a terrifying one to the American  people. He is in over his head, he cannot do the job, and he needs to  step down for the health of our Nation.

To my colleagues, we took an oath as well. We have a duty--a duty--to  do what is right, and we know that R.F.K., Jr., is not right for  America.

I want to thank my colleague and partner here in Maryland, Senator  Van Hollen, as well as Senators Wyden and Warren, for joining me in  this effort.