Fundamentally Changing Immigration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699344/fundamentally-changing-immigration


Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, we will take about 1\1/2\ weeks off now,  as we go back to our districts, meet our constituents, and do our  factory tours.

Prior to leaving, I think it is important one more time to address  what I think is the most significant issue this Congress and next  Congress and that this President and the next President is going to  have to deal with. How we address this issue will determine whether  America fundamentally changes or not. That issue is immigration.

We see it on the TV every night. We see the obnoxiousness going on in  a church in Minneapolis. We see the horror and unfortunate death of a  woman who was protesting. There are demonstrations all around the  country.

First of all, let's define the current situation. Right now in  America, every year about 800,000 people are naturalized. We don't talk  about that enough. We spend all the time talking about people who are  sneaking into this country. We don't talk about the fact that over  800,000 people every year become new citizens.

In addition to that 800,000 new citizens, 500,000 people come here on  work visas. Another 500,000 come here on student visas. People being  what they are, many of these people on visas stay in the United States  anyway.

In addition to that, the United States is one of the few countries in  the world in which we have birthright citizenship. We have new  citizens. If a woman from China flies into San Diego, has a child, and  comes back, the way we are interpreting the law right now--which, of  course, is wrong--but the way we interpret it is that child becomes a  U.S. citizen.

When you look at all the ways you can become citizens, it is not  surprising that today over 15 percent of the people in the United  States of America were born abroad. That is an all-time high. As we  analyze what we have to do on this situation, we ought to remember: If  we do nothing, we are already at an all-time high in the number of  people who are in the United States who were not born here.

As far as the over 800,000 who were naturalized, that is about four  times what it was when I was a child in the 1960s. Again, we have  nobody to apologize to as we are not letting people into the country.  There are four times as many people being let into the country as when  I was a child.

We just got done with President Joe Biden, and, of course, we don't  keep track of the exact numbers, but he was allowing about 8 to 10  million people into the country. In addition to all of these other  people, 8 to 10 million people were being allowed into the country,  crossing our southern border illegally.

What do we do about this situation as we are being flooded with  people from other countries?

First of all, we have to worry that the people coming here are not  what John Adams said should be required to come here. They are not  necessarily a moral and religious people. They may not respect our  Constitution. When they eventually participate in our elections, will  they vote for the limited government that our forefathers felt that we  needed, a limited government that is required?

Most countries built on elections wind up collapsing, and they  collapsed because people go to the polls and just say: What can my  government do for me? I will quote John Kennedy here as far as what he  felt we needed in this country. He said: ``Ask not what your country  will do for you--ask what you can do for your country.''

Those are the type of people we need at the polling booth.  Unfortunately, over time--and I am including carpet welfare in this as  much as anything--we have more and more citizens when they vote saying:  What will you give me? Are you going to give me more food? Are you  going to give me free medical care? Are you going to give me free  daycare?

In other words, what they do is they want the government to give them  more money that they didn't earn on their own. That would be the end of  America if these are the type of immigrants we are getting in.

I also want to point out that when we look at the people coming here,  some of our inflammatory people talk about racism. I hate it when they  talk about racism, but I do want to point out that, now, when you look  at people who are naturalized who come in here, I want to rattle off  the ten most common countries that citizens become naturalized from:  One, Mexico; two, India; three, Philippines; four, Dominican Republic;  five, Cuba; six, Vietnam; seven, China; eight, El Salvador; nine,  Jamaica; and ten, Colombia.

Do you notice anything about those ten countries? Not one of those  countries are sending us immigrants who are primarily European in  nature. I should maybe qualify that. For whatever reason, the diversity  bureaucrats have decided to tell us that people, say, from Cuba or the  Dominican Republic are not European.

I have always felt it was odd the way they define this. You can have  a family who moves here from Spain to Cuba, hangs around Cuba for 80  years. They come to the United States, and they are not considered  primarily European even though their ancestry is in Europe.

In any event, the way we consider things now, none of the top ten are  primarily European. As far as people saying that we have this horribly  racist country, I think it would be odd for a racist country to let the  ten most common nationalities to come here, all what our leftwing  friends would call people of color.

In any event, we have to ask ourselves: How do we handle this huge  influx of people coming into the country? If people come here and lie  and say that they are coming here for asylum, it seems to me that the  only alternative is to remove them, or we have no immigration law,  right?

If the word gets out that you come to the United States and, as long  as you don't break laws, as long as you are not an armed robber, as  long as you are not a drug dealer, you can stay here forever, everybody  will come here. That is like having no immigration law at all.

In any event, right now, we have the bizarre situation in which  people are deciding that we don't have to enforce our current  immigration laws. We have people like--I am from Wisconsin--the  Governor of Illinois and the Governor of Minnesota, in essence, saying  that we do not want ICE in our States. Same thing with the ridiculous  mayor of Minnesota.

What would happen if the word got out that, if you come illegally  into the United States, all you have to do is find your way into  Illinois or Minnesota or perhaps New York or California, and the  immigration laws will not be enforced?

I will tell you what would happen. What would happen is, in a given  period of time, I think we would find ourselves--I am sure it would be  easy to find 100 million Chinese who would come here; 100 million  people from  India could come here; or 100 million people from Africa would come  here. America would permanently change. It would change very quickly if  we respected the preposterous positions of the Governor of Minnesota.

In order to preserve our country, we have to limit the number of new  citizens at 800,000, or maybe even less.

It is scary that we have so many citizens who are so blind that they  can't see that we are losing our country. If we allow unlimited  immigration in the country, that is exactly what would happen.

I should also point out that things are different than they were 60  years ago. When I was a child and they showed pictures of countries  abroad, you would see starving children. You would look at their  stomachs.

Nowadays, the amount of poverty in the Third World is a fraction of  what it used to be. In some of the poorer countries of the world, we  have the same problem as we do with the poor of this country. They are  obese.

Okay. It amazes me sometimes when you look at the TV and they are  showing other countries around the globe, how they have high-rise  buildings in the background. I am sure they are not as wealthy as, say,  New York City, but they clearly are not poor as we thought of poor  60 years ago. These people frequently have more than enough money.

So the question is what to do, and that is why I think it is the  biggest problem that we have in America. If people like the Governor of  Minnesota or the Governor of Illinois or the Governor of California get  their way, the America that we are used to is going to disappear, and  it will be replaced by people who may not be protecting our country or  keeping the current law or the current Constitution or the attitude of  less government going.

We are almost certainly going to get people who turn America into the  countries they came from, countries in which there is socialism, in  which you have socialists; countries in which elections become contests  of who are you going to give to more? America will become not only  poorer, but America will become much less free.

We must enforce our immigration laws. It is going to be messy in some  cases, particularly because we have horrible mayors and horrible  Governors who want to ignore our laws. They want to fundamentally  change America, but our President, whoever that President is, has to  have the courage and the moral steel to stand up to these people and  remove people who don't belong here.

Anybody who feels guilty about that, again, I remind you: 800,000  people a year, almost all what liberals refer to as people of color,  are coming here already. We have nothing to apologize for if we hold  the number of people here to those numbers.

There are some people who feel that we need more people here for our  farms, more people here for our hotels, more people here for our  factories. If that is true, Congress can expand the number of work  visas that are available, but it doesn't mean we open up the floodgates  of the southern border and whoever can come here should be able to come  here.

Part of the problem as well, in addition to bad mayors and bad  Governors, is bad clergy. I think they are apparently not familiar what  is in the Bible as far as respecting the law. Every country around the  world has immigration laws. They have laws that have to be respected.  Unfortunately, we have some clergy who, I guess, were bored preaching  about the Gospel, bored preaching about God, and they have decided to  adopt the leftwing orthodoxies of let everybody come here. They, of  course, have a lot to answer to as well.

I challenge Americans at the polls, when you look and see what issues  your Congressman or, even more, your mayors or Governors are running  on, are you going to vote for people who are going to keep our America  great, not people who are going to say no immigrants whatsoever--like I  said, nationalizing 800,000 a year. Are you going to elect people who  are not going to be foolish people who let an unlimited number of  people come here? Because if we do that, America, the America that we  grew up in, is going to be gone for our children. It is going to be  gone for our grandchildren.

In any event, that is, I think, the most important issue today  because if we don't win on that issue, our country is done.