Opportunities to Stay in Place for Disabled Workers


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694041/opportunities-to-stay-in-place-for-disabled-workers


Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank President Trump and his Department  of Labor for stopping an administrative rule that was going to get rid  of 14(c) certificates, which are so vital for the lives of our disabled  citizens as they pursue good lives of work and self-esteem.

Mr. Speaker, 14(c) certificates are used by people who work in work  centers. They may have spina bifida. They may have Down syndrome. That  doesn't mean that they can't lead productive lives doing packaging and  light manufacturing. I have several facilities in my district, such as  Green Valley Enterprises in Beaver Dam and RCS Empowers in Sheboygan,  that provide these opportunities for people with different abilities.

Not only does this give them an opportunity to interact with other  people who have disabilities, but it also provides them with a little  extra money to supplement their SSI income, from which they can buy  clothes, buy gifts, and go out to eat from time to time.

In order to allow these folks to work, some of them have to be paid  less than minimum wage. Mr. Speaker, if you have never seen one of  these work centers, I encourage you to go to the work centers, where  you will see people with different abilities at work.

Everybody who works there that I can see is happy to be there and is  working there because it is their choice. Nevertheless, I think  arrogant people in the Biden Department of Labor had decided that they  would get rid of the 14(c) certificates and tell these people, in  essence, that they no longer can work, that they can go to a day center  and watch television, but they are not allowed to work like their  siblings work. They would not be allowed to get out and about in the  community where they would get to know people other than their  immediate relatives.

Fortunately, Trump's Department of Labor stepped up and said that  they are not going to change the rules and continue to allow work  centers to exist. Maybe they are making $4 or $5 an hour to supplement  their SSI, but if they want to choose, they can still work there.  Hopefully, we will expand the use of work centers so that people begin  to work there when they are 18 or 19 years old, like they used to.

One of the great things, like I said, about work centers is that not  only do they give disabled Americans a little bit more independence,  but they give them the ability to form a lot more friendships, both  with other people whose abilities are similar to their own and the  management staff at these facilities.

The Democratic Party has tried to prevent people from working there,  saying that they are being taken advantage of, which is preposterous.  Anybody who looks at these packaging or light manufacturing facilities  will see immediately why you have to pay some people under minimum  wage.

Secondly, my Democratic colleagues claim that people are being  isolated among other people with different abilities. Again, there are  people with a wide variety of abilities in these places.

There is an opportunity to form lifetime bonds with people in these  facilities. I think of The Threshold in West Bend, RCS Empowers in  Sheboygan, Green Valley in Beaver Dam, and Ascend Services in  Manitowoc.

I think of the lifelong friends that these people form when their  parents and guardians frequently worry after the parents are no longer  here, what will these people do for socialization? Where will these  people find friends? They find friends in the work centers, and it is  horrific for the Biden Department of Labor to try to shut these places  down.

In any event, one more time: I thank President Trump for preserving  the work centers. I hope his Department of Labor continues to look for  more opportunities in these facilities for people at a younger and  younger age, reminding you all that this is only if these folks choose  to work in the work centers. Everybody else can work wherever they  want, but they want these folks stuck perhaps in a place where they are  just watching TV or playing games all day.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to tour the work centers. If  they do tour the work centers, I think they, too, will become fans of  them.