Protect Children's Innocence Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698356/protect-childrens-innocence-act


Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend from Georgia for  introducing this bill. It has so much common sense. It is so scary that  our country has gone so far downhill that we would allow young people,  sometimes as young as 14 or 13 years old, to take powerful drugs,  puberty blockers, or do surgeries on them in the name of this idea that  we, all of a sudden, have this epidemic of transgenderism, which is  something that nobody ever miraculously seemed to know about 50 years  ago.

Instead, in our society, we have all the helping professions, the  guidance counselors, the psychologists, and the psychiatrists, as well  as our pop culture icons from California, out there pushing our poor  young people into the idea that it is cool to be transgender.

In fact, recently, it has come out that the number of kids who are  transgender, and I think it is 18- or 19-year-olds, has been cut in  half, which proves what anybody with commonsense knew all along: It was  a cool thing created so that young people could say: Look at me. I am  transgender.

The life of some of these kids is ruined. It is a testament, by the  way, that this is not genetic. All you have to do, Madam Speaker, is  look at the fact that these kids have to continue to take powerful  drugs even after surgery. If it was a natural thing, then you wouldn't  have to keep taking the drugs.

In any event, I strongly hope we take up this bill.

I should also point out that last year doing doorbells, like  politicians do, I ran into two grandparents who had one granddaughter  and one grandson going down this rabbit hole. I felt so sorry for them  because when somebody makes this decision, it affects not only  themselves, but it affects the whole family.

In any event, I am glad the bill is introduced. I hope they have the  common sense in the Senate--they probably won't--to pass the bill.