Republicans Have Delivered in 2025


Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, I will one more time point out what  should be the most important issue facing this body in 2026. I have  talked before about the huge marriage penalties that we build into our  income transfer programs, also known as welfare programs.

When you add up the penalties that you have to endure if, say, a  single mom marries a husband with an income, and we look at the food  stamps, the low-income housing, the earned income tax credit, the TANF  check, and the Pell grants, you can easily wind up in a situation in  which you are penalized $25,000 a year if you get married.

This is the primary reason why, in the 1950s, we only had about 4  percent of the newborn children in this country  born without a mother and father at home, and now, we are over 40  percent.

It is not difficult if people in this body would meet with some  average people rather than the lobbyists or the big campaign  contributors. It is very easy to find young people today who are not  getting married specifically because they find that the Federal  Government has almost a policy of punishing people who get married.

Even the Republican Party in its big, beautiful bill has, as I  count--maybe there are more--three programs in which we are penalizing  married couples. I found out today on the tuition credits for private  schools that we are supposed to brag about, there is a big marriage  penalty there, as we punish people who want to go to private school who  are married.

We also increased the low-income housing tax credit so that more and  more Americans are in housing in which they are discouraged from  getting married.

They are also, by the way, discouraged from working harder because in  all these programs, in addition to being penalized for getting married,  there comes a point where if you take on overtime or get a raise, they  begin to take the benefits away from you.

That is what they do in the low-income housing tax credit. If you are  paying so much in rent and decide to work overtime or decide to get a  second job, the housing development will have to say: Sorry, you are  working harder, so we have to raise your rent. That is another thing we  should be looking at and trying to change.

Madam Speaker, a third penalty comes in a mild increase in Pell  grants with regard to technical schools. In order to get it, a Pell  grant is another one of those programs where a person can't work that  hard and can't be married to somebody with an income.

In any event, I implore my colleagues and implore my leadership team  to see what they can do in the year 2026 by not penalizing Americans  for getting married and not penalizing Americans for working too hard  so we try to work our way back.

There was a time with stronger families--I realize all families can  succeed, and I know all sorts of families who do succeed by being very  conscientious with their children. Nevertheless, I think we would all  agree America would be better off if we worked our way back from the 42  percent of children born without a mother and father at home back down  to the 6 percent or 5 percent or 4 percent that it was in the 1950s or  1960s.