-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698189/9999


Ms. EDWARDS. The Chair is now honored to invite the Speaker of the  House,   Mike Johnson of Louisiana, to address all Members.

Ms. EDWARDS. I thank the Speaker so much for giving your time out of  your incredibly busy schedule. You are always really generous with your  time for the former Members. Thank you so much.

Ms. EDWARDS. We appreciate that, Mr. Speaker.

The Chair now recognizes the Honorable Barbara Comstock of Virginia,  who is president of the Former Members of Congress Association to  address the Members.

Ms. EDWARDS. I want to add my congratulations to FMC's past  presidents and to thank them for their role in creating this incredibly  important vibrant and impactful organization, which is a perfect  transition to the next part of our agenda focused on FMC's work in 2025  and our vision for 2026.

With that, the Chair, again, recognizes FMC's current president,  Barbara Comstock, to offer her remarks.

Ms. EDWARDS. Thank you, Barbara, for this report of FMC's work in  2025. I hope you all will take the time, as Barbara said, to read the  more in-depth narrative.

We are proud of all that has been accomplished this year. We, FMC  staff and leadership, have spent a lot of time thinking about FMC's  role celebrating America's milestone next year, America250-- specifically how FMC can engage audiences across the country and even  overseas in a discourse about our representative democracy as part of  the Nation's semiquincentennial celebration.

As part of our contribution to America250, we want to engage in a  dialogue with many different audiences, and we want that dialogue to be  credible, inspirational, genuine, and motivating. FMC's exceptional  deliverable is an insider's view on the Article I branch and an  unparalleled experience of living the notion of consent by the  governed.

FMC's first articulation of how we view our contribution to  America250 celebration is actually starting right now. We have asked a  bipartisan group of former Members to deliver 1 minutes as part of our  report to Congress and to share with the public what makes this  institution so special and important.

We realize that Congress is not perfect. Nothing is. However, we also  know, like no others, how challenging a public service each and every  current Member performs, no matter the party. We are in awe of the  tremendous power of the Article I branch, and we want to give  encouragement and inspiration to the next generation as we are looking  back on 250 years.

With that, I will recognize from this chair a bipartisan group of  former Members who have asked to deliver short remarks about their  experience serving in this august institution. I realize that other  Members in the Chamber may want to speak as well, but in the interest  of time, we will have to confine this part of our presentation to the  Members I already have on my list.

I now recognize the Honorable Barbara Comstock of Virginia for 1  minute.

Ms. EDWARDS. I now recognize the Honorable Kathy Manning of North  Carolina.

Ms. EDWARDS. The Chair now recognizes the gentleman from Indiana,  Larry Bucshon.

Ms. EDWARDS. The Chair recognizes the Honorable Dan Kildee of  Michigan.

Ms. EDWARDS. The Chair recognizes the Honorable Fred Upton of  Michigan.

Ms. EDWARDS. The Chair recognizes the Honorable Val Demings of  Florida.

Ms. EDWARDS. The Chair recognizes the Honorable Larry LaRocco of  Idaho.

Ms. EDWARDS. The Chair recognizes the Honorable Tim Petri of  Wisconsin on behalf of Cliff Stearns of Florida.

Ms. EDWARDS. The Chair recognizes the Honorable L.F. Payne of  Virginia.

Ms. EDWARDS. Thank you all for these really wonderful insights,  anecdotes, and celebration of the Article I branch. You have given us  the perfect setting as FMC commences the America250 programing.

I now recognize Barbara Comstock, again, for concluding remarks.

Ms. EDWARDS. Thank you so much, Barbara, for this report. Most  importantly, thank you for your thoughtful and exemplary leadership of  the FMC.

The Chair again wishes to thank the Former Members of the House for  their presence here today.

On behalf of FMC, I thank all the congressional staff who have helped  make today's presentation every year possible. You have been a terrific  resource, and we really appreciate all you have done.

The meeting stands adjourned.