Ensuring Fairness and Integrity in Federal Tribal Recognition


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697785/ensuring-fairness-and-integrity-in-federal-tribal-recognition


Mr. EDWARDS. Mr. Speaker, this year's NDAA strengthens America's  military readiness. It invests in cutting-edge defense capabilities. It  ensures our servicemembers have the training, tools, and support they  need to confront the growing threats that we face at home and abroad.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my strong opposition to the NDAA  provision that seeks to circumvent the established merit-based process  for Federal Tribal recognition and instead grant unchecked Federal  recognition to the Lumbee community.

I am proud to represent North Carolina's 11th District, home of the  Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, a sovereign Tribal Nation whose  culture, language, and history are a treasure not only to the State of  North Carolina but to the United States as a whole.

The Eastern Band of Cherokee are the descendants of those who fought  to remain in their ancestral homelands in the face of forced Federal  removal. By contrast, it must be noted that the Lumbee community has no  treaties with the Federal Government, no reservation land, and no  common language.

As Members of Congress, one of our most solemn responsibilities is to  ensure that laws are applied fairly, objectively, and consistently.

For over 40 years, the Department of the Interior through the Office  of Federal Acknowledgement has carried out a rigorous merit-based  process for determining Federal Tribal recognition. This process was  created by Congress to prevent political favoritism or arbitrary  decisionmaking as it requires careful documentation and verification,  including proof of Native American ancestry.

Bypassing this process, as is suggested through this NDAA, by  including the Lumbee Fairness Act as an amendment, sets a dangerous  precedent. It would invite other groups with unsubstantiated claims to  sidestep this process and seek recognition through political channels  rather than merit. That undermines the integrity of the recognition  process, and it threatens the credibility of Indian Country as a whole.

The OFA has found that some petitioning groups consisted entirely of  individuals unable to demonstrate Native American ancestry, not a  single person. Recognizing these groups would be a disservice to  legitimate Tribes. In the case of the Lumbee, this amendment would in  one stroke create the largest Tribe in the country, granting immediate  access to already overstretched Bureau of Indian Affairs and Indian  Health Service resources.

As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am proud of the  work that we have done to provide robust funding for the Indian Health  Service and other critical priorities for federally recognized Tribes  in the fiscal year 2026 Interior appropriations bill.

If the Tribal population eligible for these services suddenly grows  by tens of thousands of people, many of whom have no native ancestry,  resources will be spread too thin, and the Tribes with established  rights will suffer.

That is the crux of the issue. If the Lumbee had a case that could  withstand the scrutiny of the OFA process, they would go through the  OFA process as set out by law. But as they know, it won't hold up under  a deliberative process. They sought special treatment through the  legislative shortcuts, despite opposition from more than 140 federally  recognized Tribes from across the country that have stated the  integrity of this process must be preserved, and I agree. Recognition  should be earned on the merits, not granted through politics.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this provision and uphold  the process put in place by Congress decades ago to ensure fairness and  integrity in Federal Tribal recognition.