Modernizing All Veterans and Survivors Claims Processing Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695483/modernizing-all-veterans-and-survivors-claims-processing-act


Mr. EDWARDS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Valadao from California for his  leadership on Modernizing All Veterans and Survivors Claims Processing  Act. This important legislation streamlines the VA claims process,  helping veterans and their families receive the benefits that they have  earned and deserve.

I am especially grateful to Mr. Valadao for his collaboration in  including my bill, the Justice for America's Veterans and Survivors  Act, in this package.

My legislation improves how the Department of Veterans Affairs  collects and reports data on the causes of death among veterans with a  particular emphasis on accurately identifying when suicide is a primary  or contributing factor.

The mental health crisis among America's veterans has reached an  alarming level. Suicide is now the second leading cause of death for  veterans under the age of 45.

Despite ongoing efforts, the Department of Veterans Affairs struggles  to accurately track and report veteran suicides. This not only hinders  the development of effective policies but deprives survivors and  families of the support that they have earned and deserve.

Currently, the VA relies on county-level reporting that fails to  identify veteran status in nearly one in five cases. Additionally, many  self-harm deaths such as drug overdoses are excluded from suicide data.

The Justice for America's Veterans and Survivors Act fixes that issue  by requiring the VA to publish an annual report on causes of death  among veterans and it clarifies when suicide is a primary or a  secondary cause, including in cases of self-harm related deaths.

Proper cause-of-death reporting ensures families have access to the  benefits and resources that they are entitled to, and understanding the  full scope of the veteran suicide crisis is essential to creating  effective policies to save lives.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on this legislation.