Artificial Intelligence


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701238/artificial-intelligence


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, we are at the beginning of the most  profound technological revolution in world history, a revolution which  will bring unimaginable changes to every aspect of our society.

Artificial intelligence and robotics will impact our economy, our  political lives, our privacy, our emotional well-being, our  environment, and even our survival--the survival of humanity on this  planet.

The scale, scope, and speed of this change will be unprecedented.  That is not the view of Bernie Sanders. That is the view of some of the  most knowledgeable people in the world who have developed AI, who study  AI.

According to Demis Hassabis, the head of Google's DeepMind--the head  of Google's DeepMind--the AI revolution will be 10 times bigger than  the industrial revolution and 10 times faster. In other words, the AI  revolution will have 100 times the impact that the industrial  revolution had.

People left the farms. They went to work in factories. People left  factories. They went to work in offices. According to the head of  Google's DeepMind,  this revolution will be 100 times more impactful.

Mr. President, it is not just what the leaders of the AI companies  are saying. Take a look at what they are doing. This year, four--four-- AI companies are spending almost $700 billion to build out data centers  across this country. As a percentage of GDP, that is 10 times greater  than what we spent each year on Moon landings, going to the Moon.

Despite the extraordinary importance of this issue and the speed at  which it is progressing, AI has gotten far too little discussion here  in Congress. I fear very much that while the American people are deeply  concerned about the economic, the spiritual, the political impact of  AI, Congress is totally unprepared to respond to the existential  changes that are taking place. We are way, way, way behind where the  American people are in terms of their concerns.

Here are, in my view, a few questions, just a few, that Members of  Congress and the American people should be asking.

Question No. 1, a rather obvious question: Who is pushing the AI and  robotics revolution? Ordinary people going up and saying: Hey, we got  to automate factories. We got to do that. Who is pushing it? Well, I  think we all know what the answer is. The answer is Mr. Musk, Mr.  Bezos, Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Ellison.

These are some of the wealthiest people in the world, and they are  investing hundreds of billions of dollars in AI and robotics. Okay.  Fair enough.

Why are they doing it? Why are these multibillionaires investing huge  sums of money into these new technologies? Do you think it is because  they are staying up nights and they are saying: My goodness, 60 percent  of the American people are struggling economically? They are living  paycheck to paycheck. Can't afford groceries. They can't afford  housing. They can't afford healthcare. And that is why we are going to  push these technologies, to improve life for ordinary Americans.

Well, maybe, but I doubt that very much. I think the answer is  obvious. These multibillionaires are investing in AI and robotics  because those investments will increase their wealth and power  exponentially. They will make massive profits. In other words, the  richest and most powerful people on Earth will become even richer and  more powerful.

And another question I think that we obviously should be asking is:  What will the impacts of AI and robotics be on our society? How is it  going to impact us? Pretty obvious question.

In my view, and according to the people who have studied this issue  extensively, including Nobel Prize winners, AI and robotics will bring  about the most rapid societal transformation in human history. Let me  repeat. AI and robotics will bring about the most rapid societal  transformation in human history.

Among other things, AI and robotics will transform our economy with  massive job displacement. It will impact our emotional well-being and  how we relate to each other as human beings. It will lead to a massive  invasion of privacy. It will threaten our democratic institutions, and  it will bring severe harm to our environment.

Further and frighteningly, some very knowledgeable people fear that  what was once seen as science fiction could soon become a reality, and  that is superintelligent AI could become smarter than humans, could  become independent of human control, and pose an existential threat to  the human race. In other words, this is what they used to make science  fiction movies about.

But some of the most knowledgeable people on Earth, including people  who have helped develop this technology, actually believe human beings  could lose control over the planet to artificial intelligence.

Question No. 4: What happens to working people, to ordinary Americans  during this revolutionary upheaval? Well, don't take my word for it. I  am not an expert on it. Let's hear what the leaders in the industry are  saying in their own words, not Bernie Sanders. This is what the people  who have invested hundreds of billions of dollars in the industry are  saying.

Elon Musk, who has made massive investments in AI and robotics,  recently said:

AI and robots will replace all jobs.

Now, is Mr. Musk exaggerating? Is he wrong? I don't know. But I think  you might want to take a listen to one of the most powerful people on  Earth, who is investing very heavily in these technologies.

Bill Gates, another multibillionaire investing heavily in AI, he  predicted that:

[H]umans won't be needed for most things.

Mustafa Suleyman, the CEO of Microsoft AI--the CEO of Microsoft AI-- said most white-collar work:

[W]ill be fully automated by an AI within the next 12 to 18       months.

Not 12 to 18 years, 12 to 18 months. That is the CEO of Microsoft AI.  Somebody might be a little concerned about that here in Congress.

Last week, the Wall Street Journal reported that Jeff Bezos, the  fourth richest man alive, who is worth over $200 billion, is seeking to  raise $100 billion to purchase factories all over America. OK? One of  the richest guys in the world is seeking to raise $100 billion to  purchase factories all over the country.

His goal: Replace the millions of workers who are employed in these  plants with robots. Maybe somebody here might be raising some concerns  about the fact that we are on the beginning of the end of manufacturing  jobs in the United States.

And for Mr. Bezos, this is not just an idle threat. According to The  New York Times, Mr. Bezos plans to fully automate Amazon operations. He  owns Amazon. He wants to fully automate Amazon operations, beginning by  replacing at least 600,000 workers with robots.

So this is a guy who has a track record. That is what he is doing  right now; and he wants to expand that vision all across the country,  basically wipe out manufacturing jobs in America and get rid of  millions of workers.

Why does he want to do it? Well, the answer is fairly obvious:  Because AI and robots will cost employers far less than human labor.  Robots work 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Robots do not need sick days  or healthcare. They don't take Christmas or New Year's Day off. They  will end up costing employers a fraction of what human labor costs.

As Dario Amodei, the head of Anthropic, has said: AI isn't a  substitute for specific human jobs but rather a general labor  substitute for humans.

And according to Open AI's charter, its charter, its mission is to  build:

[H]ighly autonomous systems that outperform humans at most       economically valuable work.

In other words, what these guys are working toward is creating an AI  which can do virtually any job better than a human being can do. What  are the impacts of that? Well, you know, we might want to have a  discussion about that here in the Congress.

As the ranking member of the U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and  Pensions Committee, I released a number of months ago a well-researched  report, finding that AI automation and robotics could replace nearly  100 million jobs in America over the next decade--100 million jobs-- including 47 percent of truck drivers, 64 percent of accountants, and  89 percent of fast-food workers, among many other occupations.

There are towns and cities in America we are already seeing a lot of  driverless vehicles. In Texas now, you have 18-wheelers going down the  road, and nobody is driving those trucks. And everything being equal,  that will be the future unless we begin to start talking about it and  figure out how we make AI robotics work for workers, not just the  richest people on Earth.

We are already--not next year, not 10 years from now--we are already  starting to see the impact of AI on the working class in this country.  Researchers at Stanford released a paper in November called ``Canaries  in the Coal Mine? Six Facts about the Recent Employment Effects of  Artificial Intelligence'' that found that there has already been a 16- percent relative decline in employment for younger workers in jobs  exposed to AI like computer programming and customer service. Further,  42 percent of new college graduates are underemployed.

At the same time, for every new job posting, there are now, on  average, 242 job applicants. In other words, for our  young people, getting a job is going to be increasingly difficult.

If OpenAI is successful in building what they want to build--``highly  autonomous systems that outperform humans at most economically valuable  work''--I have a very simple question that we might be discussing here  on the floor of the Senate: What happens to those workers? How will  they be able to find new jobs if there are no jobs to find? How are  they going to feed their families? How are they going to buy  healthcare? How are they going to stay alive if AI robotics eliminate  millions of jobs and create massive unemployment? How will people  survive if they have no income?

How do government programs like Social Security and Medicare survive  if workers are not paying taxes? If you don't work, you don't pay  taxes.

Another question that we must be discussing: What impact will AI have  on our ability to relate to each other as human beings? What impact  will it have on our emotional well-being?

Well, work is one of the ways we connect to each other. In many  cases, work also gives our lives meaning and purpose. We all, whether  we are doctors or janitors, scientists or snowplow operators, want to  serve our communities and be productive members of society. We want to  give back. What happens when millions of people lose their jobs, their  meaning and purpose, and their source of connection to each other?

I am also concerned--and it is not just me; parents all over this  country are deeply concerned--about the impact AI is having on the  emotional well-being of our kids and, in fact, of all people.

According to a recent poll by Common Sense Media, 72 percent of  American teenagers say they have used AI for companionship, and more  than half do so regularly.

So let's take a deep breath and ask ourselves a simple question: What  does it mean for our young people to form friendships and become  emotionally dependent on AI while at the same time becoming  increasingly isolated from other human beings?

Does anyone in America think that the past 20 years of social media  have been good and healthy for children's mental health and cognitive  capabilities? I suspect most people understand that is not the case.

The statistics are quite clear. Mental health among young people is  in crisis. According to the U.S. Health and Human Services Department,  one in five young people has a diagnosed mental health condition such  as anxiety or depression. From 2016 to 2023, the prevalence of anxiety  has increased by over 60 percent.

Further, and very importantly, studies indicate that there has been a  cognitive decline in young people in our country and, in fact, in  countries all over the world. In America today, more students are  reading below a basic level than 20 years ago. It appears that the more  time kids spend on screens, the worse it is for their brains.

Does anyone really think we should now entrust the same big tech  companies that have gotten our kids hooked on screens and social media  with even more power over our children's well-being and development?  That is a question we need to be discussing long and hard.

Here is another question that I think we should be asking: Will AI  result in a massive invasion of our privacy and our civil liberties?

For decades, companies have been collecting our personal  information--what we search for online, where we visit, who we talk to,  what we purchase. Now AI makes it possible for someone to quickly  analyze all of that disparate information, find patterns, and create  profiles of us.

Larry Ellison--the second wealthiest person on Earth and a major  investor in AI--predicts an AI-powered surveillance state is coming  wherein ``citizens will be on their best behavior because we are  constantly recording and reporting everything that is going on.''

Last week, in my office, I had an extremely interesting experience. I  spoke with Anthropic's AI Claude about the privacy risks posed by AI.

Here is what Claude told me:

When companies and governments have detailed profiles of       millions of people, they have power over those people in ways       most Americans don't fully grasp. They can manipulate your       choices, predict your behavior, and influence your thinking.

That is from Claude. I don't know if you are supposed to quote AI,  but that is what AI said.

In other words, with AI, we will reach the stage where every phone  call, every email, every text, and every bank and medical record could  be analyzed in a matter of minutes. Do we trust companies that have  made billions of dollars in selling our information with this  extraordinary power to instantly know everything about us?

My fear is that if we allow the current situation to continue,  privacy as a human right will disappear.

Here is another question that needs to be seriously discussed: What  impact will AI have on our democracy? We are already facing enormous  threats from a corrupt campaign finance system, et cetera. What impact  will AI have on our democracy?

AI will mean that images, statements, and videos you see from public  officials and candidates may be totally false. In other words, words  can be put into the mouths of individuals in a way that it is virtually  impossible to detect.

Let me give you one rather personal example. Here is an image of a  guy named Bernie Sanders, a Senator from Vermont. In this image or on  this video, Senator Bernie Sanders is promoting a website that provides  a government rebate. There is just one problem: I never said the words  that they have coming out of my mouth. There is no government rebate.  This whole thing is a total scam. Well, I must say the picture is not  all that bad. But this is something we are going to see more and more  of.

This is obviously not something just known to me; the so-called  deepfakes have been created of many well-known people. Sometimes you  are seeing people whom you know who say things that sound a little  weird. Why are they saying that? Well, do you know what? They are not  saying that. It is a fake.

I want you to appreciate that if 2 days before an election, a  candidate gets up there and says all of these wild and crazy things and  you say ``Wow. Why is that guy saying that?'' Well, do you know what?  He or she may not be saying that. It may be a total fake.

The line between reality, which is what is true, and misinformation,  which is the distortion of truth, is increasingly being blurred. We are  seeing that every day on the internet.

If we cannot distinguish between reality and misinformation, what  will, in fact, happen to our democratic institutions? It is an issue I  think we need to be thinking about.

Further, what impact is AI having on our environment?

AI requires zillions of calculations. Those calculations require huge  data centers, which, in turn, require a massive amount of electricity  and water. For example, Meta is building a data center in Louisiana  that is the size of Manhattan that will use as much electricity as 1.6  million homes. One data center will use as much electricity as 1.6  million homes.

The increased demand for electricity is leading to higher electricity  rates. Over the past 5 years, wholesale electricity costs have  increased by up to 267 percent in areas near data centers. Further,  this increased demand will drive a massive expansion of fossil fuels  when we are already seeing the devastating impacts of the global crisis  of climate change.

A further question: Does AI pose an existential risk to our planet  and to the survival of humanity?

It is rather a fundamental question that I think we might want to be  discussing, so let me pose it again.

Does AI pose an existential risk to our planet and to the survival of  humanity?

This guy is named Dr. Geoffrey Hinton. He is considered by most  people to be the godfather of AI. He did the groundbreaking work which  led us to where we are today. He received a Nobel Prize in Physics a  few years ago. What Dr. Hinton says is that there is a 10- to 20- percent chance they wipe us out.

Many of the most knowledgeable people on this issue of AI believe  that AI will become smarter than humans. It is not a question of  whether that will happen; it is a question of when that will happen. AI  has already developed concerning patterns. AI, today, can lie, it can  cheat, and it can blackmail. In  other words, we already are beginning to lose control of AI.

What happens when AI becomes smarter than we are? This concern about  superintelligence is why leading experts like the godfather of AI, Dr.  Geoffrey Hinton, have warned there is a real chance that AI could wipe  out humanity. I don't want to get people too nervous, but that is what  some people are saying.

It is not just Hinton; there are a number of leading people. I was in  California last month, talking to a number of people in the industry.  The idea that humans can lose control of AI and that AI can act  independently and cause extraordinary damage to the human race is not  just science fiction; it is what many of these guys believe.

That leads to my final set of questions: Where is the Congress?

Now, it is hard not to imagine that these issues we are talking about  are of enormous consequence to every man, woman, and child in this  country. And this is not new news. Poll after poll shows the American  people are deeply concerned about the economic impacts on their kids,  the existential threats, et cetera.

So where is Congress? What exactly have the House and the Senate done  so far to address the extraordinary challenges posed by artificial  intelligence?

The answer: Not much.

Well, why has Congress been totally ineffective on this issue?

The answer will not surprise the American people: We have a corrupt  campaign finance system, and too often, Members of Congress are worried  about their campaign contributions rather than the needs of their  constituents.

The AI oligarchs, some of the wealthiest people in the country  running enormously profitable and well-funded companies, have already  spent over $150 million buying influence, $150 million telling  Congress: Leave us alone. We got it. Don't get involved in these  issues. We will determine--we, the wealthiest people on Earth--will  determine the future of humanity.

Meanwhile, last week, the Trump administration put out a  ``comprehensive'' legislative framework on AI that is all of four pages  long--not quite so comprehensive. In the midst of a massive and  unprecedented attack on the working class of this country, the Trump  administration's solution says:

Congress should not create any new federal rulemaking body       to regulate AI.

Leave the multibillionaires running the industry alone. They make a  lot of campaign contributions--the rich are getting richer. Leave them  alone.

In the midst of a massive and unprecedented attack on our humanity,  the Trump administration's solution says:

States should not be permitted to regulate AI development.

In other words, instead of the U.S. Congress representing the  interests of ordinary Americans, the Trump administration and many  Members of Congress--in both parties, by the way--want to allow a  handful of billionaires to race forward to develop AI for increased  power and wealth for themselves. That is the bad news, and it is pretty  scary news.

Now, here is the good news: The American people--despite the  inactivity of Congress, the American people are fighting back. In  community after community, Americans are organizing against data  centers that are powering the AI revolution, and they are winning,  taking on very powerful corporations. And many of these communities are  deeply red, conservative; some are progressive. But ordinary people  look around them and say: You know what. We don't think these data  centers are going to do our community any good. They are going to raise  our rates, put pressure on our water, destroy the local environment. We  don't want them. In fact, more than 100 local communities around the  country have enacted moratoriums on data centers, and 12 States are  pushing forward with statewide moratorium proposals.

And here is an important point that I think has not gotten anywhere  near the discussion that it deserves. Three years ago, in March of  2023, more than 1,000 leading AI experts, including Elon Musk, Yoshua  Bengio, Stuart Russell, and many, many others--these are leaders in  industry--called for AI labs to ``immediately pause for at least 6  months,'' and if such a pause were not enacted, called on governments  to ``step in and institute a moratorium.''

They recognized that ``advanced AI could represent a profound change  in the history of life on Earth, and should be planned for and managed  with commensurate care and resources.''

And then these experts--again, these are some of the most  knowledgeable people on AI in the world--they asked a series of  questions:

Should we let machines flood our information channels with       propaganda and untruth? Should we automate away all the jobs,       including the fulfilling ones? Should we develop nonhuman       minds that might eventually outnumber, outsmart, obsolete and       replace us? Should we risk loss of control of our       civilization?

These are some of the leading and most knowledgeable people in the AI  industry 3 years ago. They concluded:

Such decisions must not be delegated to unelected tech       leaders. Powerful AI systems should be developed only once we       are confident that their effects will be positive and their       risks will be manageable.

And I agree with what these scientists and industry leaders said. We  need to slow down the development of AI to give democracy, to give  ordinary people, a chance to catch up.

Unfortunately, several years have come and gone since this letter has  come out, and there has been no pause, and there has been no action of  significance on the part of Congress.

And that is why I will be introducing legislation tomorrow to ban the  development of new AI data centers. A moratorium will give us the  chance to figure out how to make sure that AI benefits the working  families of this country, not just a handful of billionaires who want  more and more wealth and more and more power. A moratorium will give us  the time to figure out how to ensure that AI is safe and effective and  prevent the worst outcomes. A moratorium will give us the time to  figure out how to make sure AI does not harm our environment or jack up  the electric bills that we pay. Bottom line: A moratorium will give the  American people the time to determine how we can make AI and robotics  work for them, not just a few wealthy people.

We need to pass this moratorium here. We need to slow down the  development of AI around the world, and we need to bring the  international community together to address the risk posed by AI.

And I can tell you that, in China, in Europe, in countries all over  the world, there is deep concern about the safety of AI and the  possible loss of human control over AI.

So we are looking at the most sweeping and impactful technological  revolution in the history of humanity. It will impact all of us in so  many ways. Yet Congress remains too busy raising contributions from the  industry rather than standing up for the needs of the working people.  That has got to change.

I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure that we  finally pass a moratorium, slow this down, and make AI robotics work  for all of us, not just the few.