Authorizing the En Bloc Consideration in Executive Session of Certain Nominations on the Executive Calendar


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, as many Americans know, the current  budget is going to expire at the end of September, and if an agreement  is not reached, the government will shut down, which is, frankly, not  anything that anyone wants. The question that we now have to address is  how we keep the government open and serve the needs of the American  people.

As Americans know, Republicans have a majority in the House and in  the Senate, and they also control the White House. They run the  government. Republicans have the responsibility, therefore, to keep the  government open.

My understanding is that there will be a vote tomorrow on a  continuing resolution to fund the government until November 20. In the  House, a simple majority wins, and I would imagine that, by a very slim  vote, Republicans will have the votes they need in order to pass their  resolution.

In the Senate, however, the rules are different--historically  different. In order to pass a continuing resolution, it will take a 60- vote majority to pass. That means that at a time when there are 53  Members of the Republican caucus and 47 Members of the Democratic  caucus, it will require bipartisan support. That is what Senate rules  are about.

In other words, Republicans will need Democratic and/or Independent  votes--I am an Independent--in order to keep the government open.

Bottom line: Republicans will need to negotiate. That is how the  Senate works, and that is how democracy works.

Speaking for myself and I believe many millions of Americans, here is  some of what it will take to get my vote:

No. 1. Republican leadership, don't take away healthcare from 15  million Americans by making the largest cut to Medicaid and the  Affordable Care Act in history.

No. 2. Republican leadership, don't increase health insurance  premiums by 75 percent on average for over 20 million Americans who get  their healthcare through the Affordable Care Act.

No. 3. Republican leadership, do not undermine modern medicine and  the health and well-being of our children by rejecting the scientific  evidence regarding vaccines.

No. 4. Republican leadership, do not allow our great country to be  moved toward authoritarianism by putting Federal troops on city streets  without a request from a Governor or a mayor. Do not have ICE agents  snatch people off our streets without due process. Do not undermine the  Constitution of the United States and the rule of law by allowing an  administration to refuse to spend money appropriated by Congress.

Let me be more specific. As I think almost every American  understands, our current healthcare system is dysfunctional, it is  broken, and it is cruel. At a time when we spend almost twice as much  per capita on healthcare as any other major country--over $14,000 per  person--85 million Americans are uninsured or underinsured--85 million  Americans.

The Republican continuing resolution in the House does nothing-- nothing--to prevent 15 million Americans from being thrown off the  healthcare they currently have, as a result of Trump's so-called Big  Beautiful Bill. In other words, instead of lowering the number of  uninsured and underinsured, if we do not act, 15 million more Americans  will be uninsured. We cannot allow that to happen.

This is a life-and-death issue. Studies have shown that up to  50,000--50,000--Americans every year will die unnecessarily if we do  not reverse these cuts.

So we are talking about here, if we do not act, going from 85 million  uninsured and underinsured to 100 million uninsured and underinsured.  Those cuts must be rescinded.

But it is not just preventing 15 million Americans from losing their  health insurance; everybody in this country--every businessperson,  every union worker--knows that the cost of healthcare in this country  today is astronomically high and unaffordable. I don't care what State  you are in--people cannot afford healthcare today. Yet, if we do not  act right now, in this continuing resolution, the Affordable Care Act  tax credits will expire and premiums will skyrocket by 75 percent on  average for more than 20 million Americans.

Let me repeat: Healthcare premiums for 20 million working-class and  middle-class Americans will go up by 75 percent on average if we do not  extend those tax credits in this coming legislation.

Let me say that I wish very good luck to my colleagues, whether they  are Democrats or Republicans, who want to go home to their constituents  and explain why healthcare premiums are going up by 75 percent in order  to pay for $1 trillion in tax breaks for the 1 percent. I do wish you  the best of luck in trying to explain that one. I do not intend to.

Further, let me be clear: Vaccines work--not exactly a controversial  statement. It is a statement supported  by every major medical organization in the United States and around the  world. Vaccines are safe, they are effective, and they have saved  millions of lives in our country and tens of millions of lives  worldwide. In fact, vaccines are one of the greatest public health  achievements in modern history.

At a time when the Secretary of Health and Human Services has  dismantled the vaccine review process, narrowed access to lifesaving  COVID vaccines, fired leading public health experts, and filled  scientific advisory boards with conspiracy theorists and ideologues, we  must stand with the scientific and medical communities and rescind  Secretary Kennedy's dangerous policies.

This is not about politics. It doesn't matter whether you are  Republican, Democrat, or Independent. We are talking about protecting  our children from polio, measles, whooping cough, and other preventable  diseases.

The American people, slowly but surely, are catching on. No matter  what their political view may be--Democrat, Republican, Independent-- they understand that our current economic system is rigged. They  understand that the very richest people in this country are becoming  much richer, while 60 percent of Americans are living paycheck to  paycheck and millions of people are trying to survive on starvation  wages.

The American people understand that while billionaires are getting  huge tax breaks, they are finding it harder and harder to afford  healthcare, to pay the rent or their mortgages, to afford childcare, to  be able to send their kids to college, to pay for the prescription  drugs their doctors prescribe, or to buy decent quality food for their  kids.

The American people understand--painfully and depressingly--that  unless we change the way the economy functions, their kids will likely  have a lower standard of living than they do. In the richest country in  the history of the world, it is likely that the younger generation will  have a lower standard of living than their parents, while almost all  new incoming wealth goes to the people on the top.

Today, we have more income and wealth inequality than we have ever  had in the history of the United States. Today, we have one man, Mr.  Musk, who owns more wealth--if you can believe it--than the bottom 52  percent of American households--one man, more wealth than the bottom 52  percent of American households. And, by the way, he is on his way, it  appears, to become a trillionaire--even richer and richer.

Today, the top 1 percent owns more wealth than the bottom 93  percent--top 1 percent, more wealth than the bottom 93 percent. And the  CEOs of major corporations now earn over 350 times what their average  employees make.

While the billionaire class becomes richer and richer, real inflation  accounted for weekly wages that are lower today than they were 52 years  ago--huge expansion of worker productivity, and yet the average worker,  in many cases, is worse off than he or she was 52 years ago.

Enough is enough. At a time of massive income and wealth inequality,  it is insane to be giving a trillion dollars in tax breaks to the top 1  percent. If President Trump and the Republican leadership want my vote,  they will have to rescind that tax break for their oligarchic friends.

Our country today faces not only major economic crises, we are  looking at extraordinarily threatening--a threatening moment to our  democratic form of government. Frankly, we now have a President of the  United States who does not believe in our Constitution and the  separation of powers; who does not believe in freedom of speech and the  right to dissent; who is moving us, every day, toward an authoritarian  form of government with more and more power into his own hands.

Too many Americans from my State of Vermont and every other State in  this country have put their lives on the line and sometimes died in  order to defend democracy and our way of life: the right of people to  live without fear, the right of people to express their point of view-- no matter what it may be. You disagree with me, that is great. That is  called American democracy--the right of people to vote without  intimidation.

Today, in an unprecedented way, we have Federal troops in cities in  America who have not been requested by a governor or a mayor. Today in  America, we have people who are being snatched off the streets--taken  right off the streets or out of their workplaces--by masked Federal  agents, thrown into vans, and dispatched to detention centers without  due process. Does anybody think that that is what America is supposed  to be about--somebody walking down the street, getting picked up by  masked men, thrown into a van, and taken God knows where? Today, we  have a President sending some of these people to South Sudan, Uganda,  El Salvador--we don't know where. People have no relationship to the  country they are being sent. Imagine being plucked off the street, sent  to South Sudan, country in the middle of a civil war, virtually no  government. That is not acceptable. That is not what our great country  is supposed to be about.

These undemocratic, unconstitutional policies must be rescinded. The  movement toward authoritarianism in this country must be ended.

In this very difficult moment in American history, let us stand with  the American people and listen to their needs. Let us not throw 15  million working-class people off of the healthcare that they have so  that 50,000 people a year die unnecessarily. We cannot allow that to  happen.

Let us not raise healthcare premiums by 75 percent for 20 million  Americans. People can't afford healthcare today. What happens when your  premiums go up by 75 percent? Let us not endanger the children of this  country by undermining modern medicine and making it more difficult for  people to get the vaccines they require.

And at a time of massive income and wealth inequality, let us not  give a trillion dollars in tax breaks to the top 1 percent.

And, lastly, as we observe growing authoritarianism every single day,  as we see more and more disrespect for the great Constitution of our  country--which has made us an example to the entire world--let us-- Republican, Democrat, Independent--let us stand together and save  American democracy.

If the Republican leadership does those things, you have got my vote.