Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696656/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I want to thank the Senator from  Wisconsin for offering this important and very simple and  straightforward amendment. Nothing can be simpler.

Are you prepared, I say to my Republican friends, to sit back and  allow over 20 million Americans to see a doubling of their healthcare  premiums?

In my State of Vermont, people who are 65, 63 years of age will, in  some cases, see a tripling or quadrupling. And that is the case in your  States as well.

All that Senator Baldwin is saying is: Let us take a deep breath. Let  us make sure that people do not see an outrageous increase in their  premiums. Let us not pave the way for 15 million Americans to lose  their healthcare entirely because of savage cuts to Medicaid. That is  all she is asking.

Now, I notice that recently, some of my Republican colleagues are  beginning to talk about the healthcare crisis. Well, during Trump's  first 4 years, he had virtually nothing to say about the crisis, and  nothing to say about it in the next 4 years. But I am glad that there  is some discussion.

The truth of the matter is, in my view, that the current healthcare  system is broken, it is dysfunctional, and it is cruel.

But I want to ask my Republican friends a simple question: Are you  happy with the fact that here in the United States, we are the only  major country not to guarantee healthcare to every man, woman, and  child?

We are unique. That is not the kind of exceptionalism we should be  proud of.

Are you happy that we are paying twice as much per capita for  healthcare, over $14,000 per person, more than any other major country,  and yet we have 85 million Americans who are uninsured or underinsured?

Are you content with the fact that the insurance companies and the  drug companies are making huge profits, paying their CEOs exorbitant  salaries? Are you happy with that?

Are you happy that patients in America have to get on the phone and  fight like crazy and deal with all kinds of bureaucrats in order to get  the healthcare that they paid for in an incredibly complicated, broken  system?

So if you want to have a debate about healthcare, let's have that  debate. I happen to believe that we should join the rest of the  industrialized world, guarantee healthcare to all people through a  Medicare-for-all, single-payer system.

You got a better idea? Bring it forward. But what we should agree  upon is that you don't raise premiums by 100 percent or, in some cases,  triple or quadruple.

Let's take a deep breath. Let's extend these ACA subsidies for  another  year. Let's have that debate on healthcare. That is what the American  people want.

Mr. President, I yield to the Senator from Michigan.