Gaza


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690860/gaza


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I want to say a few words about an issue  that people all over the world are thinking about, are appalled by but,  for some strange reason, gets very little discussion here in the  Nation's Capital or in the halls of Congress, and that is the horrific  humanitarian disaster that is unfolding in Gaza.

Today marks 68 days and counting since any humanitarian aid was  allowed into Gaza. For more than 9 weeks, Israel has blocked all  supplies: no food, no water, no medicine, and no fuel. Hundreds of  truckloads of lifesaving supplies are waiting to enter Gaza, sitting  just across the border, but are denied entry by Israeli authorities.

There is no ambiguity here. Netanyahu's extremist government talks  openly about using humanitarian aid as a weapon. Defense Minister  Israel Katz said:

Israel's policy is clear: No humanitarian aid will enter       Gaza, and blocking this aid is one of the main pressure       levers.

Starving children to death is a weapon of war, is a clear violation  of the Geneva Convention, the Foreign Assistance Act, and basic human  decency. Civilized people do not starve children to death. What is  going on right now in Gaza is a war crime committed openly and in broad  daylight and continuing every single day.

There are 2.2 million people who live in Gaza. Today, these people  are trapped. The borders are sealed, and Israel has pushed the  population into an ever smaller area. With Israel having cut off all  aid, what we are seeing now is a slow, brutal process of mass  starvation and death by the denial of basic necessities.

This is methodical; it is intentional; it is the stated policy of the  Netanyahu government.

Without fuel, there is no ability to pump fresh water, leaving people  increasingly desperate, unable to find clean water to drink or to wash  with or to cook properly. Disease is once again spreading in Gaza. Most  of the bakeries in Gaza have now shut down, having run out of fuel and  flour. The few remaining community kitchens are also shutting down.

Most people are now surviving on scarce canned goods, often a single  can of beans or some lentils shared between a family once a day.

The United Nations reports that more than 2 million people out of a  population of 2.2 million face severe food shortages. The starvation  hits children the hardest. At least 65,000 children now show symptoms  of malnutrition and dozens have already starved to death. Malnutrition  rates increased 80 percent in March, the last month for which data is  available after Netanyahu began the siege, but the situation has  severely deteriorated since then.

UNICEF reported yesterday that ``the situation is getting worse every  day'' and that they are treating about 10,000 children for severe  malnutrition. And severe malnutrition is not something that is cured  overnight. This will have a permanent impact on the health and well- being of those kids for the rest of their lives.

Without adequate nutrition or access to clean water, many children  will die of easily preventable diseases, killed by something as simple  as diarrhea. For the tens of thousands of injured people in Gaza,  particularly the countless burn victims from Israeli bombings, their  wounds cannot heal without adequate food and clean water. Left to  fester, infections will kill many who should have survived.

With no infant formula and with malnourished mothers unable to  breastfeed, many infants are also at severe risk of death. Those who  survive will bear the scars of what they are going through now for the  rest of their lives.

And with little medicine available, easily treatable illnesses and  chronic diseases like diabetes or heart disease is now a death sentence  in Gaza.

What is going on there is not some terrible earthquake; it is not a  hurricane; it is not a storm. What is going on in Gaza today is a man- made nightmare, and nothing in my view can justify this.

What is happening in Gaza will be a permanent stain on the world's  collective conscience. History will never forget that we allowed this  to happen and, for us here in the United States, that we, in fact,  enabled this ongoing atrocity.

There is no doubt that Hamas, a terrorist organization, began this  terrible war with its barbaric October 7, 2023, attack on Israel, which  killed 1,200 innocent people and took 250 hostages. The International  Criminal Court was right to indict Yahya Sinwar and other leaders of  Hamas as war criminals for those atrocities.

Clearly, Israel, as any other country that was so attacked, had the  right to defend itself against Hamas. But Netanyahu's extremist  government has not just waged war against Hamas. Instead, they have  waged an all-out barbaric war of annihilation against the Palestinian  people. They have intentionally made life unlivable in Gaza.

Israel, up to now, has killed more than 52,000 people and injured  more than 118,000--60 percent of whom are women, children, and the  elderly. More than 15,000 children in Gaza have been killed.

Israel's indiscriminate bombardment has damaged or destroyed two- thirds of all of the structures in Gaza, including 92 percent of the  housing units--92 percent of housing in Gaza has been damaged or  destroyed. Most of the population now is living in tents or other  makeshift structures.

The healthcare system in Gaza has been, essentially, destroyed. Most  of the territory's hospitals and primary healthcare facilities have  been bombed. Gaza's civilian infrastructure has been totally  devastated, including almost 90 percent of water and sanitation  facilities. Most of the roads have been destroyed.

Gaza's educational system has been obliterated. Hundreds of schools  have been bombed--schools have been bombed--as has every single one of  Gaza's 12 universities.

And there has been no electricity in Gaza for 18 months--no  electricity.

Given this reality, nobody should have any doubts that Netanyahu is a  war criminal. Just like his counterparts in Hamas, he has a massive  amount of innocent blood on his hands.

And now, Netanyahu and his extremist ministers have a new plan--on  top of everything else that has been done, they have a new plan--and  that is to indefinitely reoccupy all of Gaza, flatten the few buildings  that are still standing, and force the entire population of 2.2 million  people into a single tiny area where hired U.S. security contractors  will distribute rations to the survivors.

Israeli officials are quite open about the goal here: to force  Palestinians to leave for other countries ``in line with President  Trump's vision for Gaza,'' as one Israeli official said this week.

Israeli Finance Minister Smotrich said this week that ``Gaza will be  entirely destroyed'' and that its population will ``leave in great  numbers.''

For many in Netanyahu's extremist government, this has been the plan  all along. It is called ethnic cleansing.

This would be a terrible tragedy no matter where in the world it was  happening or why it was happening, whatever the causes of it might be.  But what makes this tragedy so much worse for us in America is that it  is our government, the U.S. Government, that is absolutely complicit in  creating and sustaining this humanitarian disaster. It didn't just  happen; we are a significant part of creating this humanitarian  disaster.

Last year alone, the United States provided 18 billion in military  aid to Israel. This year, the Trump administration has approved 12  billion more in bombs and weapons. And for months, Trump has offered  blanket support for Netanyahu. More than that, he has repeatedly said  that the United States will actually take over Gaza after the war, that  the Palestinian people will be driven, forcibly expelled, from their  homeland, and the United States will redevelop it into what Trump calls  ``the riviera of the Middle East,'' a playground for billionaires.

Think about it: 2.2 million desperate people who have been bombed and  starved and driven from their homes are now about to be forcibly  expelled from their territory into God knows where so that Trump and  his friends can build a riviera for the billionaire class.

This war has killed or injured more than 170,000 people in Gaza. It  has cost American taxpayers well over $20 billion in the last year. And  right now, as we speak, thousands of children are starving to death.  And a U.S. President is actively encouraging the ethnic cleansing of  over 2 million people.

Now, given that reality, one might think that there would be a  vigorous discussion right here in the Senate. Do we really want to  spend billions of taxpayer dollars starving children in Gaza? A real  vigorous debate. I want to hear why that is a good use. We have people  sleeping out on the streets of America two blocks from the Nation's  Capital. You tell me why spending billions of dollars to support  Netanyahu's war and starving children is a good idea. I would love to  hear it.

We are not having that debate. Let me suggest to you why I think we  are not having that debate and that is because we have a corrupt  campaign finance system that allows organizations like AIPAC to set the  agenda here in Washington with regard to what happens in the Middle  East.

In the last election cycle, AIPAC's PAC and super PAC spent nearly  $127 million combined on campaign contributions. And the fact is that  if you are a Member of Congress and you vote against Netanyahu's war in  Gaza, AIPAC is there to punish you with millions of dollars in  advertisements to see that you get defeated.

One might think that in a democracy there would be a vigorous debate  on an issue of such consequence. But because of our corrupt campaign  finance system, which impacts us in so many ways on this issue, people  are literally afraid to stand up because if they do, suddenly, you are  going to have all kinds of ads coming into your district to defeat you.

Sadly, I must confess that this political corruption works. Many of  my colleagues will privately express their horror at Netanyahu's war  crimes but will do or say very little publicly about it. History will  not forgive our complicity in this nightmare. The time is long overdue  for us to end our support for Netanyahu's destruction of the  Palestinian people.

We must not put another nickel into Netanyahu's war machine. We must  demand an immediate cease-fire, a surge in humanitarian aid, the  release of the hostages, and the rebuilding of Gaza--not for  billionaires to enjoy their Riviera there but rebuilding Gaza for the  Palestinian people.

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, if the Senator had heard my remarks, I  talked about the need to release the hostages and I talked about who  started the war, which is the terrorist organization called Hamas, led  by war criminals. There is no debate about that.

But what the Senator did not tell us is whether or not he thinks it  is a good idea for U.S. taxpayers to be spending billions of billions  of dollars on an extremist government in Israel whose stated policy is  to starve children; whether or not he thinks it is a good idea to cut  off all humanitarian aid getting into Gaza right now--no medicine, no  clean water, no healthcare facilities open.

So the issue is not who started the war. Everyone knows who started  the war. The issue is whether you commit war atrocities, criminal war  acts by punishing an entire people for the acts of a terrorist  organization.

Did Israel have the right to defend itself? Yes, nobody denies that.

Did it have a right to kill over 50,000 people--60 percent of whom  are women, children, and the elderly? No.

Did it have a right to injure 112,000 people, to destroy almost every  housing unit in Gaza, to bomb hundreds of schools at every university  in Gaza? No.

Israel had a right to defend itself, but it does not have the right  to engage in ethnic cleansing and to starve children.