Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693127/motion-to-discharge-sj-res-59


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, everyone knows that our country faces  enormous crises. We have a healthcare system that is broken and is  wildly expensive. We have a housing crisis in which millions of people  are spending far more than they can afford to put a roof over their  heads. We have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any  major country on Earth and a childcare system which is dysfunctional.  Millions of our kids cannot afford to go to college or are leaving  school deeply in debt, and over 20 percent of our seniors are trying to  get by on $15,000 a year or less. And oh, by the way, we have an  existential threat in climate change, which might very well make the  planet uninhabitable for future generations. These are just a few of  the crises that Congress and the President should be addressing.

In the midst of all of that, going to war against Iran and supporting  Israel's unprovoked attacks against that country is not something that  we should be doing. We do not need another unnecessary and costly war.  We have had enough of them.

In 1964, Congress voted, with little debate, for a Gulf of Tonkin  Resolution giving President Johnson the authority to escalate American  military involvement in Vietnam. As a result, the United States  expanded its presence in that country, and we were dragged fully into  Vietnam's civil war. Eventually, some 2.7 million Americans served in  Vietnam; and more than 58,000 died, and over 300,000 were wounded. The  Vietnam war devastated an entire generation; it killed millions of  Vietnamese; and it destabilized the region. It cost U.S. taxpayers  hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars.

The Vietnam war was based on a series of lies. Years later, the U.S.  Government concluded that the supposed attacks that prompted the Gulf  of Tonkin Resolution did not happen as reported. The so-called domino  theory, the ideological foundation of that war, was bogus. That was a  war that never should have been fought.

In 2002, as a new Member of Congress, I can recall vividly how  politicians and the media relentlessly beat the drum about the need to  go to war against Iraq and its leader Saddam Hussein. Over and over  again, we were told that Iraq was building weapons of mass destruction  and that if we did not act quickly, nuclear weapons would be falling on  America. Among those pushing for war in Iraq in 2002 were none other  than Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, who testified to  Congress:

There is no question whatsoever that Saddam is seeking . .       . nuclear weapons. If you take out . . . Saddam's regime, I       guarantee you that it will have enormous positive       reverberations.

That was Netanyahu in 2002.

The U.S. Congress, against my vote, invaded Iraq and became involved  in a brutal sectarian war that lasted for almost a decade. No weapons  of mass destruction were ever found. That war was based on a lie, a lie  that cost us 4,500 brave young Americans, 32,000 wounded, and $3  trillion in taxpayer dollars. Hundreds of thousands of Iraqis also  died.

War often has awful and unintended consequences. It should only be  considered as a last resort. We should not go to war against Iran.

First, let me state the obvious. Trump's attack against Iran is  unconstitutional. Congress, alone, has the authority to take this  country into war, not the President. Trump does not have that  authority.

Second, Iran did not pose an imminent military threat to the United  States that would justify a preemptive attack. Just a few months ago,  Trump's own Director of National Intelligence, Tulsi Gabbard, testified  to Congress that the American intelligence community ``continues to  assess that Iran is not building a nuclear weapon and Supreme Leader  Khamenei has not authorized the nuclear weapons programs he suspended  in 2003''--from Tulsi Gabbard.

Trump dismissed that finding, saying:

Well then, my intelligence community is wrong.

Really? On what basis does he think that the entire U.S. intelligence  community is wrong?

Third, diplomacy offers a better path to durably address Iran's  nuclear activities than a military attack. This was proven in 2015,  when the United States and world powers made an agreement that strictly  limited Iran's nuclear activities and put in place blanket inspections.  That agreement was working, but Trump pulled out of that deal in 2018,  and Iran restarted its activities.

To his credit, Trump returned to diplomacy this year, and U.S.  officials held five rounds of talks with Iran to address this issue. A  sixth round of talks was scheduled for June 15, but Israel derailed  those talks with a surprise attack and, in the process, assassinated  the Iranian official overseeing those negotiations.

Fourth, Binyamin Netanyahu should not be dictating U.S. foreign and  military policy. Trump's attack on Iran would not have occurred if  Israel had not launched an illegal, unprovoked, surprise attack on Iran  on June 13, sabotaging U.S. diplomatic efforts.

If the people of Israel support Netanyahu's decision to start a war  with Iran, that is their business. That is their war. The United States  should not be part of it.

Fifth, the United States should not be allied with the Netanyahu  government in any military effort. Netanyahu is a war criminal indicted  by the International Criminal Court for starving and killing civilians  in Gaza. His government is systematically destroying the Palestinian  people, killing over 55,000 and wounding nearly 130,000--two-thirds of  whom are women and children.

Israel has destroyed the entire physical infrastructure of Gaza-- housing, hospitals, schools, and water systems--and continues to  prevent the delivery of humanitarian aid to starving civilians in  violation of U.S. and international law.

Sixth, this war is about more than Israel and Iran. It is about the  very concept of international law and preventing a world where every  dispute is settled with force. Whatever you think of the brutal,  authoritarian, and terrorist-supporting Iranian regime, Netanyahu's  surprise attack was a clear violation of international law and the U.N.  Charter.

The world appropriately condemned Russia for its unprovoked attack  against Ukraine. The world appropriately condemned Hamas for their  unprovoked terrorist attack against Israel. Israel should be condemned  for its unprovoked attack against Iran, and the United States should  not be part of that illegal action.

Finally, wars are expensive. We need funding to address the  healthcare crisis, the childcare crisis, the education crisis, and many  other crises our people face every day. We should be investing our  resources in improving life for  the American people, not wasting money on illegal and unnecessary wars.

Last year alone, the United States provided $22 billion in military  aid to Israel. Enough is enough. It is beyond absurd that we continue  to finance Israel's wars, while neglecting the needs of our own people.

Mr. President, for all of these reasons, I strongly support Senator  Kaine's War Powers Resolution to make clear that only Congress has the  power to declare war; that there is no legal basis for war with Iran;  and that the American people do not want more unnecessary costly wars.