Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Proposed Foreign Military Sale to the Government of Israel of Certain Defense Articles


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701814/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-proposed-foreign-military-sale-to-the-government-of-israel-of-certain-defense-articles


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, pursuant to section 36(b)(1), I move to  discharge the Committee on Foreign Relations from further consideration  of S.J. Res. 138.

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me begin by thanking Senator Kelly  not only for his remarks and his work as a U.S. Senator but for his  service to our country in the military, and I very much appreciate his  support for these resolutions.

Mr. President, 60 percent of our people here in the United States  live paycheck to paycheck. They are struggling to pay for groceries,  for housing, for healthcare, and, increasingly, the ability to fill up  their gas tanks in their cars in order to get to work.

We also have a $37 trillion national debt. Bottom line: The American  people--whether they are Democrats, Republicans, or Independents,  conservatives, moderates, or progressives--want to make certain that  their tax dollars are spent responsibly.

And in strong and growing numbers, they do not want us to continue  spending billions of their taxpayer dollars in support of the illegal,  horrific, and expansionist war policies of the Netanyahu Government in  Israel.

Since October 7, 2023, the United States has provided over $21  billion--$21 billion--in military aid to Israel. And today, we are  saying loudly and clearly: Enough is enough.

We all know that on October 7, 2023, Hamas, a terrorist organization,  attacked Israel. They killed more than 1,200 innocent men, women, and  children and took hundreds of hostages. I believe that there is no  disagreement in this Chamber that like any other country on Earth,  Israel had the absolute right to respond to that barbaric Hamas attack.

But Israel did not have the right to violate international law and  wage an all-out war of unspeakable destruction against the entire  Palestinian people in what experts have correctly concluded is a  genocide.

Israel did not have the right out of a population of 2.2 million to  kill more than 72,000 Palestinians in Gaza and wound over 170,000. That  is more than 10 percent of the population.

If that happened here in America, that would be over 30 million  Americans dead or wounded. And in Gaza, a strong majority of the dead  and wounded are women, children, and the elderly.

By the way, that number is likely an underestimate as to the tragedy  as bodies are literally being pulled out of the rubble every single  day.

Israel did not have the right to destroy virtually all of Gaza's  infrastructure, including its water and sewer systems and its supply of  electricity. They did not have the right to demolish every one of  Gaza's 12 universities, along with hundreds of schools, dismantling  their entire educational system. A vast majority of the children in  Gaza today are not in school.

Israel did not have the right to indiscriminately bomb civilian  neighborhoods and damage or destroy over 90 percent of the housing  units in Gaza--over 90 percent damaged or destroyed--resulting in the  vast majority of the population there now sleeping in tents.

That is where they are today.

Israel did not have the right to bomb over 90 percent of the  hospitals in Gaza--hospitals--and kill 1,700 healthcare workers.

And Israel did not have the right to impose a blockade which  prevented food, water, and medicine from entering Gaza, resulting in  thousands of Palestinians being diagnosed with malnutrition and  hundreds actually starving to death.

But, today, we are not just talking about Gaza. In the West Bank, in  direct violation of international law that protects Palestinian  territory, Israeli soldiers and settlers, since 2023, have killed over  a thousand Palestinians, including 233 children. During that period,  they have demolished more than 6,000 Palestinian homes and established  more than 200 new illegal settlements and outposts in Palestinian  territory.

And let us be clear, because I think there is some confusion about  this. These actions are not just the results of some extremist, out-of- control settlers who are just doing whatever they want. Those actions  are consistent with Israeli Government policy.

Netanyahu's Security Cabinet has approved the most sweeping changes  to the West Bank's legal status since 1967, removing nearly all  constraints on settlement expansion. Netanyahu himself declared:

There will never be a Palestinian state.

And I say that to some people here who still say: Well, we are in  favor of a two-state solution.

That is not Mr. Netanyahu's position. He said:

``There will never be a Palestinian state.''

His Finance Minister, Bezalel Smotrich, bragged that new settlement  construction in the West Bank would ``bury''--that is his word-- ``bury'' the idea of a Palestinian state.

But it is not just Gaza and the West Bank. We now know that Netanyahu  convinced President Trump to start an unprovoked and unconstitutional  war on Iran.

For 40 years--for 40 years--Netanyahu had wanted the United States to  participate with Israel in a war against Iran, and, finally, after 40  years of effort, he finally found in Trump a President willing to go  along.

He couldn't get Democratic Presidents in the past and couldn't get  Republicans in the past. In Trump, he finally found a President willing  to go along.

This war, in violation of international law, has resulted already in  the deaths of thousands of civilians, including hundreds of children in  Iran and Lebanon, including 26 Israeli civilians who are now dead and  13 American soldiers who have lost their lives so far in this conflict.

All over the world, certainly including the United States, hundreds  of millions of innocent people are suffering the economic consequences  of this war, with higher prices and growing scarcity of basic goods.

I believe that in Vermont, now, the price of regular gas is about $4  a gallon, and in parts of the country, it is even higher than that.

But for Netanyahu, Gaza was not enough. Attacking Iran was not  enough. Netanyahu is now waging a full-blown war of expansion against  Lebanon. That war in Lebanon has not only killed more than 2,000 people  but has resulted in Israel occupying 14 percent of Lebanese territory.

Let me repeat that. The war in Lebanon has not only killed more than  2,000 people but has resulted in Israel occupying 14 percent of  Lebanese territory.

The Israeli Defense Minister, Israel Katz, has announced that all  Lebanese border villages will be demolished--will be demolished--his  exact words, following ``the model in Gaza''--demolish border villages.

Bezalel Smotrich, the Finance Minister, has warned that Dahieh, a  suburb of South Beirut, will look like Khan Yunis, a city in Gaza that  Israel reduced to rubble.

In other words, what they did in Gaza is now what they intend to do  in parts of Lebanon. And these are not threats. They are promises.

For all of the reasons that I have given and more--and you are going  to hear more from some of my colleagues, in a few moments--support for  Israel in this country has plummeted. Today, according to a recent Pew  poll, 80 percent of Democrats now have an unfavorable opinion of  Israel, and 41 percent of Republicans share that view.

And the numbers in all parties, among young people, are even higher.  Young people, whether they are young Democrats, progressives, or  conservatives, do not want us to continue to fund the horrific war  policies of Netanyahu.

A recent Quinnipiac poll also found that 60 percent--including three- quarters of Democrats, two-thirds of Independents, and 37 percent of  Republicans--I say that to my Republican  colleagues: 37 percent of Republicans do not want the U.S. sending more  military aid to Israel.

And that is why I am offering, today, two joint resolutions of  disapproval, the only formal mechanism Congress has to block an arms  sale.

The first resolution would block the sale of $151 million in 1,000- pound bombs. The second would block $295 million in bulldozers, the  machines used to demolish homes in the West Bank and Gaza and make a  Palestinian state physically impossible.

The time is long overdue for Members of the U.S. Senate to start  listening to the American people and not to AIPAC. The time is now for  us to end all U.S. military aid to the extremist Netanyahu government,  and a ``yes'' vote is an important way forward.

Mr. President, with that, I yield to my colleague from Maryland,  Senator Chris Van Hollen.

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I yield to the Senator from Oregon Mr.  Merkley.

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me thank Senator Van Hollen, Senator  Merkley, Senator Markey, Senator Kaine, and, before that, Senator Kelly  for their remarks.

The American people increasingly are sick and tired of spending  billions of dollars in support of illegal, horrific military actions on  the part of the Netanyahu government. We have spent tens of billions of  dollars already. Gaza has been destroyed--10 percent of the population  dead or wounded. Netanyahu got Trump into a war in Iran. Thousands of  civilians are now dead, including many children, and now Netanyahu is  at war in Lebanon--thousands of civilians dead, civilian neighborhoods  bombed, a million people displaced from their homes, and 14  percent of Lebanese territory occupied by Israel.

What the American people are saying is: Enough is enough.

By the way, this is bipartisan. It is not just Democrats, and it is  not just Independents. It is a significant number of Republicans who  remember President Trump talking about ``America First'' and talking  about the need to invest in this country, not in bombs and bulldozers  to destroy people in the Middle East.

With that, I would hope that we would have a very strong vote in  support of these resolutions to tell Netanyahu and to tell the world  that enough is enough.