Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Proposed Export of


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694434/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-proposed-export-of


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, pursuant to 22 United States Code 2776  and in accordance with the provisions of Section 601(b)(3) of the  International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976,  I move to discharge the Committee on Foreign Relations of further  consideration of S.J. Res. 41 and S.J. Res. 34.

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me begin by stating what the debate  we are going to have this evening is about and what it is not about. It  is not about whether anyone in this Senate disagrees that Hamas is a  terrorist organization which began this war with a brutal terrorist  attack on October 7, 2023, that killed 1,200 innocent Israelis and took  250 hostages. Everyone agrees with that. The International Criminal  Court was right to indict the leaders of Hamas as war criminals for  those atrocities, and I think most of us agree with that.

There is also, I believe, no disagreement as to whether or not  Israel, like any other country similarly attacked, had a right to  defend itself. Clearly, it did.

And in a certain sense, this debate is not really about Israel; it is  about the United States of America and whether we will abide by U.S.  and international law or whether we will continue to contribute  billions of dollars to an extremist government in Israel which has  caused an unprecedented humanitarian disaster in Gaza.

This debate is whether or not the United States of America will have  any moral credibility on the international scene, whether or not we  will be able, with a straight face, to condemn other countries who  commit barbaric acts if we don't stand up tonight. That is what we are  debating.

The vast majority of the American people and the world community  understand that the Netanyahu government in Israel has gone well beyond  defending itself from Hamas. Over the last 21 months, it has waged an  all-out, illegal, immoral, and horrific war of annihilation against the  Palestinian people. This war has already killed some 60,000  Palestinians and wounded more than 143,000, most of whom are women,  children, and the elderly.

In a population of just over 2 million people--that is all that there  are in Gaza--more than 200,000 have been killed or wounded since this  war began. That is 10 percent of the population of Gaza. Ten percent of  the population of Gaza, in the last 21 months, has either been killed  or wounded. To put that into scale so that we, as Americans, can  understand the enormity of what is happening there, if that kind of  destruction happened here in the United States, if 10 percent of our  population were killed or wounded in a war, it would mean that 34  million of us would have been killed or wounded.

The toll on Gaza's children is unspeakable, and it is literally hard  to imagine. The United Nations reports that more than 18,000 children  have been killed since this war began.

Just this morning--this morning--the Washington Post published a list  of all of these children's names.

Mr. President, here is the list. These are the names of children  published in the Washington Post today that have been killed by the  Israeli military in Gaza.

I should mention that more than 12,000 of these children were under  the age of 12 and more than 3,000 children in Gaza have had one or more  limbs amputated. That is how this war has impacted the children in  Gaza.

But it is not just the horrific loss of life that is taking place  there. New satellite imagery shows that Israel's indiscriminate  bombardment has destroyed 70 percent of all structures in Gaza--70  percent of all buildings in Gaza have been destroyed. The U.N.  estimates that 92 percent of housing units have been damaged or  destroyed. Most of the population is now living in tents or other  makeshift structures.

And let us not forgot, over the last 21 months, these people--most of  whom are poor--have been displaced time and time again--told to go  here, told to go there, told to go there, moved around--and often with  no possessions other than the clothing on their backs.

The healthcare system in Gaza has been destroyed. Most of the  territory's hospitals and primary care facilities have been bombed.  More than 1,500 healthcare workers have been killed as well as 336 U.N.  staff.

Gaza's civilian infrastructure has been totally devastated, including  almost 90 percent of water and sanitation facilities. Raw sewage now  runs all over Gaza. Most of the roads have been destroyed.

Gaza's educational system has been obliterated. Hundreds of schools  have been bombed, and every single one of Gaza's 12 universities has  also been bombed. I should mention there has been no electricity in  Gaza for 21 months.

All of this is a horror unto itself, but in recent months, the  Netanyahu government's extermination of Gaza has made an unspeakable  and horrible situation even worse.

From March 2 to May 19, Israel did not allow a single shipment of  humanitarian aid to come into Gaza--no food, no water, no fuel, and no  medical supplies for a distressed population of 2 million people over a  period of 11 weeks.

Since then, Israel has allowed a trickle of aid to get into Gaza but  nowhere near enough to meet the enormous needs of a population besieged  for so long.

When you cut off all food to a population, what happens is not  surprising. People starve to death, and that is exactly what Israeli  policy has deliberately done. It is causing mass starvation and famine.  Children and other vulnerable people are dying in increasing numbers.

In the last 2 weeks, dozens of young children have died from  starvation. Starving mothers cannot breastfeed their infants, and no  formula is available and certainly no clean water to make it, in any  case.

Hospitals have run out of nutritional treatments, and doctors and  nurses who are already treating the desperate, they themselves are  going hungry and are fainting from hunger. The World Food Programme  says that the food crisis has reached ``new and astonishing levels of  desperation with a third of the population not eating for multiple days  in a row.''

Just yesterday, the gold standard U.N.-backed food monitoring group,  the IPC, issued a new report saying:

The worst case scenario of famine is currently playing out       in the Gaza strip.

When mass death from starvation begins, it is difficult to reverse.  Aid groups say it will soon be too late to stop a wave of preventable  deaths in Gaza, all of which is the direct result of the Israeli  Government's policies.

What I am going to describe now is gruesome, but I think it is  important for us to understand what is happening to the children in  Gaza.

Mark Brauner, an American doctor who spent 2 weeks in Gaza in June,  described the situation. This is an American doctor who was in Gaza.

A lot of the children have already passed the point of no       return, where their physiology has eroded to the point where       even refeeding could potentially cause death itself. The gut       lining has started to autodigest, and it will no longer have       adequate absorptive capacity for water for nutrition. Death       is, unfortunately, imminent for probably thousands of       children.

That is an American physician who was in Gaza in June.

What the extremist Netanyahu government is doing now is not an effort  to win a war. There is no military purpose in starving thousands and  thousands of children. Let us be clear: This is not an effort to win a  war. This is an effort to destroy a people.

Having already killed or wounded more than 200,000 Palestinians,  mostly women and children, the extremist Israeli Government is using  mass starvation to engineer the ethnic cleansing of Gaza. They are  trying to drive a desperate people out of their homeland to God knows  where.

This is not my speculation. This is what Israeli Ministers and  officials are saying themselves. A few months ago, the Finance Minister  vowed that ``Gaza will be entirely destroyed.''

Just last week, another current Israeli Minister said ``all Gaza will  be Jewish. The government is pushing for Gaza being wiped out. Thank  God we are wiping out this evil.''

Another Likud member of the Knesset and former Minister called for  ``erasing all of Gaza from the face of the Earth.''

And in the West Bank--not Gaza--in the West Bank, we see this agenda  being carried out clearly and methodically with more than 500,000  Israeli settlers now illegally occupying land integral to any future  Palestinian State.

Earlier this month, the Knesset even approved a nonbinding motion in  favor of formally annexing the West Bank. This slow-moving annexation  is backed by violence. Israeli security forces and settler extremists  have killed thousands of Palestinians in recent years.

Israeli settlers brutally beat a young American to death earlier this  month. Just this month, an American citizen was beaten to death, the  seventh American killed in the West Bank since 2022.

Despite a demand from President Trump's Ambassador to Israel--this is  Trump's Ambassador Mike Huckabee--no one has yet been held accountable  for these deaths.

People around the world--all over the world--are outraged by what is  going on in Gaza right now and countries are increasingly demanding  that Netanyahu's government stop what they are doing.

France and Canada have said that they will recognize a Palestinian  State. The United Kingdom has said it will do so as well if Israel does  not immediately end this war and surge humanitarian aid. And at the  U.N. last month, 149 countries voted for a cease-fire resolution  condemning the use of starvation as a weapon of war and demanding an  end to Israel's blockade on humanitarian aid.

But it is not just the international community. Just yesterday-- yesterday--Gallup, one of the best polling organizations in our  country, released a new poll that shows that just 32 percent of  Americans support Israel's military action in Gaza while 60 percent  oppose it--32 percent support it; 60 percent oppose it.

To my Democratic colleagues here in the Senate, I would point out  that only 8 percent of Democrats support this war, and I would also  point out that just 25 percent of Independents.

And to my Republican colleagues, I would point out that more and more  Republicans are beginning to speak out against the atrocities of this  war and the fact that billions and billions of taxpayer dollars are  going to a government in Israel waging an illegal war.

Further, a recent Economist/YouGov poll shows that just 15 percent of  the American people support increasing military aid to Israel, while 35  percent support decreasing military aid to Israel or stopping it  entirely. Just 8 percent of Democrats support increasing military aid  to Israel.

The American people are haunted by the images coming out of Gaza, and  these are some of those images. These are desperate children with pots  in their hands, crying, begging for food in order to stay alive. That  is what the American people are seeing every night on TV, on the  internet, and in the newspapers.

These are emaciated children. Their bodies, in some cases, barely  more than skeletons. The American people are seeing miles and miles of  rubble where cities and towns once stood. They are seeing innocent  people being shot down while they wait on line to get food while they  are starving. Over 1,000 people have been killed waiting on line to get  food because they are starving.

Despite these war crimes carried out daily and in plain view, the  United States has provided more than $22 billion for Israel's military  operations since this war began--$22 billion.

One estimate, based on Brown University research, calculates that the  United States has paid for 70 percent of the Gaza war. In other words,  American taxpayer dollars are being used to starve children, bomb  schools, kill civilians, and support the cruelty of Netanyahu and his  criminal Ministers.

That, Mr. President, is why I have brought these two resolutions of  disapproval to block offensive arms sales to Israel.

S.J. Res. 34 would prohibit the U.S. taxpayer-financed $675 million  sale of thousands of 1,000-pound bombs and many thousands of JDAM  guidance kits.

S.J. Res. 41 would prohibit the sale of tens of thousands of fully  automatic rifles--assault rifles.

These arms sales clearly violate the Foreign Assistance Act and the  Arms Export Control Act, which prohibit selling arms to countries that  violate international law by killing civilians and blocking  humanitarian aid, and very few people doubt that is exactly what Israel  is doing.

If you want to obey the law, vote for these resolutions.

The rifles in question will go to arm a police force overseen by far- right extremist Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir, who has long advocated for  the forcible expulsion of Palestinians from the region, who was  convicted of support for terrorism by an Israeli court and was  distributing weapons to violent settlers in the West Bank. Ben-Gvir has  formed new police units comprised of extremist settlers and has boasted  about how many weapons he has distributed to vigilante settlers in the  West Bank, and you want to give him more rifles? That is what one of  these resolutions is about.

These are rifles the Biden administration held back over fear they  would be used by Israeli settlers in the West Bank to terrorize  Palestinians and push them from their homes and villages.

U.S. taxpayers have spent many, many billions of dollars in support  of the racist, extremist Netanyahu government. Enough is enough.  Americans want this to end. They do not want to be complicit in an  unfolding famine and daily civilian massacres, and we here in Congress  tonight have the power to act. No more talks, no more great speeches.  But tonight we have the power to act, the power to force Netanyahu and  his extremist government to end this slaughter.

The time is long overdue for Congress to use the leverage we have-- tens of billions in arms and military aid to demand that Israel end  these atrocities.

At a time that Israeli soldiers are shooting civilians trying to get  food aid on a near-daily basis, when extremist settlers are pushing  Palestinians from their homes in the West Bank and when Gaza is  witnessing mass starvation as a result of Israeli government policy,  the United States should not and must not be providing more weapons to  enable these atrocities.

Whatever happens tonight, history will condemn those of us who failed  to act in the face of these horrors.

Mr. SANDERS. Let me thank Senator Welch. I yield to Senator Merkley  for 10 minutes.

Mr. SANDERS. I yield to the Senator from Illinois, Senator Durbin.

Mr. SANDERS. I yield 2 minutes to the Senator from Virginia, Senator  Kaine.

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me conclude by saying this: Senator  Risch was right. Hamas is a terrorist organization that began this war.  They are war criminals. But Hamas is not responsible for the starvation  of children today. Hamas is not responsible for the fact that 90  percent of the housing units in Gaza have been destroyed, that their  entire healthcare system has been destroyed, that every university in  Gaza has been bombed.

So today, it is not about Hamas; it is not about Israel; it is about  the United States of America and whether we will continue to be  complicit in war crimes and in the destruction of women and children in  Gaza.

I ask for strong support for both of my resolutions.                   Vote on Motion to Discharge S.J. Res. 41