Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696735/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Ms. MACE. Mr. Speaker, while I support the Senate Amendment to H.R.  5371, which puts an end to the Democrats' reckless and unnecessary 43- day government shutdown, I strongly oppose Section 781 of this bill,  which would deal a fatal blow to American farmers supplying the  regulated hemp industry and small businesses, and jeopardize tens of  billions of dollars in economic activity.

The 2018 Farm Bill expanded the definition of hemp and established a  successful framework for the hemp industry. Under this framework, the  hemp industry supports over 320,000 American jobs, generates $28.4  billion in regulated market activity, and produces some $1.5 billion in  state tax revenue.

The hemp industry has stepped forward to self-regulate in the absence  of uniform federal regulations--uniting behind a framework which  restricts the sale and possession of hemp products to adults 21 years  and older, standardizes packaging to eliminate ``look-a-like'' products  that are appealing to children, standardizes labeling to empower adult  consumers to make informed choices, and requires independent third- party laboratory tests for consumable hemp products. They have been  asking Congress to pass legislation to responsibly regulate their  industry.

Rather than adopt this common-sense regulatory framework to protect  children and allow adults to make informed decisions, Section 781 of  this bill essentially imposes a national ban of all ingestible hemp  products with any ``quantifiable'' level of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),  which represents between 90 and 95 percent of hemp products in the  marketplace, including the vast majority of non-intoxicating  cannabidiol (CBD) products offered in the marketplace.

Section 781 of this bill would needlessly and arbitrarily change the  definition of legal hemp rather than responsibly regulating the market,  This would effectively turn out the lights on America's legal hemp  farmers, preempt the work being done in states to create regulatory  frameworks for hemp products, and restrict consumer choice for the tens  of millions of Americans who use hemp-derived products.

Approximately 20 percent of American adults report using CBD or a  hemp-derived product in the preceding 12 months. These products are  here; they are widespread, and they are not going away. As the failed  war on drugs has shown, provisions like this drive out responsible  actors from the industry and embolden shady, black-market actors who  care not for consumer safety or the protection of children.

Rather than have a substantive, open debate on the future of hemp  policy in America, prohibitionists slipped this provision into a must- pass government funding bill, forcing Members of Congress to choose  between voting their conscience on hemp and paying our military  servicemembers. This is wrong.

I opposed this language when prohibitionists tried to insert it into  the Agriculture-FDA Appropriations bill last fiscal year, I opposed the  language when they tried to insert it into the farm bill, I continue to  oppose this language. But I cannot vote to keep this government shut  down and force the approximately 35,000 military servicemembers in  South Carolina to work without pay.

In the year before this provision takes effect, I will work  tirelessly to reverse this harmful language and create a common-sense  regulatory framework which protects America's children, ensures product  quality, and preserves access to products used by tens of millions of  Americans.