Skills-Based Federal Contracting Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700119/skills-based-federal-contracting-act-of-2025


Ms. MACE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from South Carolina for  yielding time. Mr. Timmons is doing an excellent job managing floor  time today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of our bill, the Skills- Based Federal Contracting Act. The price of admission should not be a  4-year college degree.

At a hearing I held last Congress in the Subcommittee on  Cybersecurity, Information Technology, and Government Innovation, a  witness from IBM testified that Federal contractors are rarely able to  place an individual without a 4-year degree on a technology services  contract, regardless of their qualifications. This problem extends  beyond technology and service contracts.

Across the Federal Government, many contract solicitations include  unnecessary degree requirements, mandating individuals who perform  various tasks hold specific education credentials such as 4-year  college degrees.

The Federal Government spends hundreds of billions of dollars  outsourcing work to millions of contractors to perform the functions of  government. This immense purchasing power shapes the entire labor  market.

When we embed unnecessary degree requirements into Federal  contracting solicitations, we are not just making a hiring decision; we  are sending a signal to the entire economy that a college diploma is a  prerequisite for economic opportunity.

With less than 40 percent of Americans holding a 4-year college  degree, this creates a paper ceiling where talented Americans are  excluded from opportunity, regardless of how qualified they may be,  simply because they lack a college degree.

The Skills-Based Federal Contracting Act bill would tear through this  paper ceiling by prohibiting the Federal Government from including a  minimum educational requirement for proposed contractor personnel in a  Federal contract solicitation, unless the contracting officer provides  a written justification for why the needs of the agency cannot be met  without such requirements.

Think about the immense economic value and economic opportunity  created in this country by individuals who didn't finish college. These  include Mark Zuckerberg, Larry Ellison, and Steve Jobs. Under onerous  degree requirements, it would have been nearly impossible for any of  these individuals to have been placed on a government contract.

Across the private sector, we have seen companies move to phase out  or even eliminate degree requirements, recognizing a college degree  does not serve as an effective proxy for competence or skills. It is  far past time the Federal Government follows suit.

This bill in no way tells private companies how to hire or who to  hire. Rather, it removes unnecessary Federal restrictions on their  ability to hire the best qualified Americans who acquired their skills  through alternative pathways.

In some cases, required education credentials are warranted. For  example, we expect a doctor to have a medical degree, but only a small  fraction of Federal contract work falls into these types of categories.

In the case that it does, this bill would simply require a brief  justification in writing from a contracting officer before they exclude  over 60 percent of American workers who do not have a 4-year degree  from the chance to compete.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the lead Democratic cosponsor of this bill,  Representative Krishnamoorthi, for joining me in this effort.

Skills-based hiring has been a rare area of widespread bipartisan and  nonpartisan support in Congress. The Skills-Based Federal Contracting  Act passed out of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on  an enormously bipartisan basis by a vote of 44-0.

Together, we can provide all Americans, regardless of whether they  studied classic literature in ivory towers, with economic opportunity  and the chance to work on behalf of their fellow citizens serving our  country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support this commonsense,  nonpartisan bill.