For America's 250th Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699869/for-americas-250th-act


Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak on the bill that,  as the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee just  mentioned, I was privileged to introduce. It is a bicameral, bipartisan  $2.50 for America's 250th Act in partnership with Congresswoman and  fellow U.S. Semiquincentennial Commissioner Bonnie Watson Coleman, as  well as Commissioners Congresswoman Maria Salazar and Congressman  Dwight Evans.

I thank the chair and ranking member of the Financial Services  Committee for their support for this piece of legislation, as we have  tried to put it together.

This bill authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to issue a $2.50  collectible anniversary coin and a viability study for a potential  circulating $2.50 coin for everyday use for every American.

The collectible coin will feature the historical design originally  issued for America's 150th anniversary. This coin will memorialize and  celebrate our moment in American history.

I am grateful for the partnership of my House and Senate colleagues,  especially as the America 250 Caucus is now the largest congressional  caucus in U.S. history, with bipartisan leadership in both Chambers.

As a founding member of the U.S. Semiquincentennial Commission that  was tasked with preparing for our Nation's 250th anniversary  celebration, it has been a privilege over the past decade to work on  bipartisan legislation to honor 250 years of America's independence.

Before I go on, I must recognize what a privilege it has been to  serve with my Democrat sponsor of this legislation, Bonnie Watson  Coleman.

Unfortunately, she is retiring after this Congress, following an  incredible trailblazing career. She will be missed and her voice will  be missed in committee, this Chamber, and the entire institution. I  thank her for her service to our Nation and to the America 250  Commission, in particular.

Madam Speaker, the 250th anniversary of the signing of the  Declaration of Independence was a turning point in the history of the  United States and also the world, one that warrants national  recognition.

I am honored to speak in support of a bill that recognizes this  landmark moment of our collective history through a coin that links our  Nation's past to its present and its future.

In particular, as someone who fondly remembers, as the chairman  mentioned, the bicentennial celebration, even though we were very young  at the time, these coins were issued for that occasion at that time.  These coins gave parents, families, and community members the  opportunity to obtain a physical keepsake to pass down for the next  generation. This is exactly what this legislation would do, as well.

I know that my parents passed the circulating coin down to me, and I  still have them, as well.

This legislation will also carry on the example set by the 68th  Congress that celebrated our Nation's 150th anniversary by authorizing  the United States Mint to commemorate the 150th anniversary of  America's independence.

Beside me right here is an image of the historical design that was  used back in 1926. This bill puts strict design parameters around the  new $2.50 coin  to continue that tradition. The only changes that will be made are to  update the dates to reflect and celebrate another century that has  passed since this coin was put into circulation 100 years ago.

As America marks its 250th anniversary this year, the coin will honor  the same ideas and values that were recognized back then for the  sesquicentennial in 1926.

Every citizen deserves the opportunity to acquire such a coin as a  means to connect the founding principles of liberty, democracy, and  self-governance. The $2.50 anniversary coin for the 250th anniversary  provides an opportunity for the American people to engage with and to  take personal ownership of their national heritage through a tangible  and lasting tribute.

In addition to the congressionally authorized activities already  planned by the Mint, this new anniversary coin will serve not only as a  lasting tribute to the founding generations but to the ideals that we  share with them to this very day. It also is a unifying and educational  gesture on the occasion of the 250th, or the semiquincentennial, that  we celebrate.

In this day and age, I can find no issue more worthy of Congress'  attention than an initiative that codifies our unity and reminds us  that there will always be more that unites us than divides us.

Madam Speaker, again, I thank my colleague, Bonnie Watson Coleman,  for working with me on this piece of legislation. I urge my colleagues  to vote for this initiative and to follow in the footsteps of our  predecessors in the 68th Congress in 1926 who set an example that will  last for generations to come.