Recognizing Wilson Dam on its 100th Anniversary


Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge a special  anniversary in Alabama's 4th Congressional District. One hundred years  ago, on September 12, 1925, Wilson Dam began commercial operations. As  a part of the Tennessee Valley Authority's network of hydroelectric  dams, Wilson Dam supports TVA's mission of providing low-cost, reliable  power, flood control, and navigation of the Tennessee River. Over the  past 100 years, Wilson Dam has powered communities, enabled river  commerce, and driven economic growth throughout the Tennessee Valley.

Located in Florence, Alabama, Wilson Dam has 21 generating units,  capable of producing up to 663 megawatts of electricity and powering  over 350,000 homes and businesses in north Alabama.

Wilson Dam is a National Historic Landmark and an engineering feat.  It stretches nearly a mile--more than 4,500 feet--across the Tennessee  River. The site plays a crucial role in the movement of goods through  our country. The main lock has a maximum lift of 100 feet, making it  the highest single-life lock east of the Rockies. More than 3,700  vessels on average and 11.4 million tons of goods pass through Wilson  Dam's locks each year.

The associated Wilson Dam Reservoir includes over 160 miles of  shoreline and covers 15,500 acres, providing ample opportunities for  recreation. This makes North Alabama a destination for those looking to  fish, boat, kayak, and enjoy our beautiful state, while driving  economic activity and jobs in Alabama.

In a testament to the role Wilson Dam plays in the system, TVA is in  the process of extending the life of the plant for decades. As part of  the Hydro Life Extension Program TVA is refurbishing units to improve  dam safety and increase hydro generation output. Wilson Dam has  fulfilled--and continues to fulfill--TVA's mission statement of serving  the people of the Valley region.

I hope my fellow Alabamians will join me in celebrating all that  Wilson Dam has done for our state, and our region, for one hundred  years. Here's to the next 100.