Permitting Reform


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I am here to give, I guess, an  explanation and update to my colleagues about the status of permitting  reform.

I think, as you know, the chair and ranking member of the Energy and  Natural Resources Committee and the chair and ranking member of the  Environment and Public Works Committee were working on a permitting  reform bill until very recently. I have, together with Senator  Heinrich, declared a pause in that permitting reform process, and I  want to explain that because the progress had actually been good. We  were working toward what I think could have been a very meaningful,  very effectual, very bipartisan permitting reform bill. There were  fairly new ideas being developed in it--like requiring front-loaded  stakeholder engagement so the whole rest of the process, as it goes  forward, is accelerated; disciplining the despised-by-me interagency  process mechanism that excuses so much executive branch delay and  indecision. I was actually pretty pleased with the way the process was  going.

Off of Rhode Island, we are developing offshore wind. Our offshore  wind project, Revolution Wind, had already weathered one stop work  order which came out of the blue from the administration. This was a  project then with about $4 billion of investment already expended and  north of 80 percent complete--a lot of turbines fully complete out  there.

And that order was without any lawful basis. As a result, the order  was challenged in court. And in court, the Federal judge said: You can  put that project back to work. The stop work order from President Trump  is invalid.

The judge made that decision on September 22. The Trump  administration had 60 days to appeal. It did not appeal. We got to  November 21, the last appeal day, no notice of appeal was filed. The  matter was settled; work could continue; and everybody was already back  at work.

Thirty days later, the 22nd of December, a new stop work order was  dropped by the Trump administration with no explanation.

So the first stop work attempt by the Trump administration had cited  the protection of national security interests of the United States as  one of its bases. And, obviously, that was deliberated in court. There  were pleadings on that subject. The Trump administration lost. They did  not appeal the order finding that they had lost, declaring that they  had lost, so that was a settled question.

This second letter goes back and says again, national security risks.  It does not identify them. In comments made on FOX News, it has been  said that radar interference is the risk. Radar interference was  deliberated in the initial permits. Radar interference was deliberated  in the stop work order proceedings where the Trump administration lost.  So what this looks like is a vindictive attack outside the law and  proper due process by the Trump administration.

It is not the only mischief, and I am going to be joined here by  Ranking Member Heinrich to talk about some of the more westerly tricks  that the Trump administration has been up to to interfere with clean  energy.

But that second stop work order kind of tore it for me--because any  negotiation that we would enter into, any good bill that would result  from it, would then have to be implemented by this administration; and  this administration has been found to have illegally stopped work on  this project, did not appeal that finding, and then came up with a new  stop work order 30 days later. If that is not vindictive harassment  without legal basis, I don't know what is.

It is in litigation right now. With any luck, it will be stopped  again, and they can go back to work again. And--who knows--maybe there  will be a third imaginary stop work order that drops. But in an  environment like that, where the executive branch refuses its  constitutional duty to faithfully execute the laws, it doesn't make any  sense for us to continue negotiations on a major bipartisan bill.

I want to say, in particular, that Chair Capito has been helpful,  thoughtful, a good partner. All the Environment and Public Works  Committee Republicans have been helpful and thoughtful. There is  literally zero blame for this to land on the other side of the aisle in  the Senate. This is entirely a legislative versus executive problem of  an executive branch--a rogue executive branch--that refuses to  faithfully execute the laws, notwithstanding its constitutional duty.

It is so bad that the three major miscreants in this process--Zeldin,  Burgum, and Wright--have gone on a campaign of falsehood about the cost  of offshore wind. Here are some of the things that they have been  saying. Secretary Burgum said that ``intermittent, highly expensive  wind is bad.'' ``Highly expensive,'' he called it. He then tweeted:

Offshore wind is one of the most expensive . . . schemes       ever pushed upon American taxpayers.

He said:

Offshore wind forces consumers and taxpayers to pay       CONSIDERABLY more for electricity.

He said that ``blue State offshore wind policies . . . lock in high  prices.''

Zeldin criticized the economic impacts of wind.

Wright said that ``wind and solar brings us . . . less reliable  energy delivery and higher electric bills.''

So all three of them have falsely asserted that offshore wind will  raise electric bills.

In court proceedings, where you actually need to tell the truth--as  opposed to in tweets and talk shows--the story that emerges is exactly  the opposite. In the Rhode Island and Connecticut sworn complaint, we  alleged that Revolution Wind, the project off our shores, ``will . . .  yield substantial cost savings to the States' ratepayers.''

[S]avings to ratepayers--

the pleading continues--

are estimated to be hundreds of millions of dollars over 20       years.

The September complaint brought in the Federal court by Orsted-- again, a court filing--pled that long-term contract prices ``are  expected to act as a successful hedge against rising electricity  rates,'' projected to save ratepayers ``hundreds of millions of  dollars.''

In January--just now--in the litigation about the second stop work  order, an affidavit was filed that swore that Revolution Wind would be  a new source of low marginal cost power in New England; that ``once  operational, Revolution Wind alone will provide hundreds of millions of  dollars each year in energy bill savings to New England.''

The ISO, the grid operator, specified that during a specific cold  snap, from December 24, 2017, to January 8, 2018--what is that?--2  weeks, basically--had this offshore wind been online during that  period, it would have ``lowered regional electricity production costs  by $80-85 million'' over those 2 weeks, ``resulting in an $11-13 per  megawatt-hour reduction'' in what the grid charged ratepayers.

Revolution Wind has cleared in the New England capacity market, and  if it were to fail, it would require increases in electricity rates in  New England of hundreds of millions of dollars per year.

Over and over again, when people who know what they are talking about  have to say in court pleadings, where they have an obligation to tell  the truth, what the cost effect of Revolution Wind will be, they talk  about cost savings of hundreds of millions of dollars. And that is  confirmed across the country by grid operators. You can go to any grid,  and you can see pretty much the same thing. They call up power units by  cost. They call up the least expensive power units first, for obvious  reasons, and wind and solar tend to be the low marginal cost units.  They are the ones that are called up first.

So the allegations made in court of savings to ratepayers are  backstopped by the actual economic practice of our electric grids.

So back to Zeldin, Burgum, and Wright. If they are conspicuously and  consistently failing to tell the truth about savings, specifically  misleading the public, telling them fossil fuel is cheaper when it  isn't, what does that tell you about their motives and their bias and  inability to faithfully execute the laws?

It tells me that there is really no point in passing a bipartisan  bill, which would be a really good one, because we wouldn't get the  benefit of the bill. They would just continue with illegal acts and  false statements--anything to help fossil fuel.

It is not just Revolution Wind. Dominion Wind is set to lower  consumer power prices in Virginia, once it is operational, and it is,  too, now under a stop work order.

I want to resume. I want to get back to work. I want to do this  permitting reform bill. In order to get there, I am going to need some  help. The artificial intelligence folks, the crypto folks, the data  system folks who need massive amounts of electrons, you all need to  start showing up and letting people know that you actually want  permitting reform, and you actually want an administrative and  regulatory process in which electrons are treated fairly, irrespective  of source, so you can get the power that you need. That is where we  need to go.

If you want permitting reform, don't come to me. I am not the  problem. Don't come to Democrats in the Senate. We are eager to do  permitting reform. Don't bother Chairman Capito and the Republicans.  They are ready to go too. Leader Thune has been very supportive of our  effort.

The problem isn't in the Senate. The problem is in the White House  and in Environment and Public Works, Energy, and Interior. They are  simply not executing the laws fairly, and the bias and injustice and  illegality they have already demonstrated have got to stop if we are  going to go forward.

It ain't just this bill that has to come through EPW and go through  the Congress. There is also a highway bill coming. There is a water  resources bill for the Army Corps bill. Are we really going to have to  stop work on those big bipartisan bills because we can't trust the  Trump administration to implement them according to law?

Something has to give here, and nobody has done anything wrong in  this building. All of the problems are in illegal, false, unfair, and  biased enforcement of what should be faithful execution of the laws.  That is where we are.

Department of the Interior,                               Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,                                Director's Order, December 22, 2025.      Rob Keiser,      Head of Asset Management, Orsted North America Inc., Boston,           MA, College Park, MD.

Dear Mr. Keiser: The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management       (BOEM) is issuing this Director's Order to Revolution Wind,       LLC, pursuant to 30 C.F.R. Sec. 585.417(b), to suspend all       ongoing activities related to the Revolution Wind Project on       the Outer Continental Shelf for the next 90 days for reasons       of national security. During this time, BOEM will coordinate       with you to determine whether the national security threats       posed by this project can be adequately mitigated.

In November 2025, the Department of War (DoW) completed an       additional assessment regarding the national security       implications of offshore wind projects, and provided senior       leadership at the Department of the Interior with new       classified information, including the rapid evolution of       relevant adversary technologies and the resulting direct       impacts to national security from offshore wind projects.       These impacts are heightened by the projects' sensitive       location on the East Coast and the potential to cause       serious, immediate, and irreparable harm to our great nation.

Based on BOEM's initial review of this classified       information, the particularized harm posed by this project       can only be feasibly averted by suspension of on-lease       activities. In coordination with DoW, BOEM will determine       whether the national security threats relating to this       project can be mitigated and invites you to meet and confer       about that possibility. Given the construction status of this       project, BOEM will consider all feasible mitigation measures       before making a decision as to whether the project must be       cancelled.

Finally, while BOEM and DoW endeavor to reach a       determination on feasible mitigation measures within 90 days       following the date of this letter, BOEM may further extend       the 90 day suspension period based on the status of those       discussions. Even though all ongoing activities at this       project are suspended, you may perform any activities that       are necessary to respond to emergency situations and/or to       prevent impacts to health, safety, and the environment over       the next 90 days and during any subsequent extensions.

I appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward       to hearing from you quickly.            Sincerely,                                                Matthew N. Giacona,                                                   Acting Director.