The Ballad of Jane Goodall


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, in fond memory of Dame Jane Goodall,  1934-2025, Explorers Club Fellow, Honorary Member, and Explorers Club  Medalist, by L. M. Levie:

There's a tale explorers tell, of a girl with drive and       dreams, Who was born in Hampstead, London in a home of modest       means, With a small toy chimp named Jubilee clutched close       against her heart, And a yearning for the wilderness,       imprinted from the start.

She would read of Doctor Dolittle and apes of Tarzan's       land, While her mother, kind and gentle, held her daughter's       reaching hand. Though she had no lofty pedigree from       university, Jane set out upon a mission that would change       humanity.

Jane would save all of her wages, every shilling, pence and       pound, And she booked a ship to Africa, to Kenya she was       bound. In the camp of Louis Leakey, digging age-old skulls       from earth, He found something in her manner, recognized her       hidden worth.

``You shall study chimpanzees in the wilds of Gombe Stream,       You shall live among the primates and fulfill your childhood       dream.'' So at twenty-six she ventured to Tanzania's lake       shore, Where no woman dared go solo, where no scholar went       before.

And at first the chimps would scatter, running fearful       through the trees, But she sat there day and nighttime under       sun and rain and breeze. `Til one ancient male named David       with a beard of silver-gray, Took a nut from Jane's kind       outstretched hand and gently squeezed to say:

``You are welcome here among us, you may watch us, you may       learn.'' And upon this invitation, science took a mighty       turn. Through the years at Gombe watching, Jane recorded       every deed, How they shared their       food and groomed with care--compassion was their creed,

How they laughed and kissed and mourned their dead with       grief upon their face, How they held the mirror to us,       showing evolution's trace. But in nineteen-eighty-six she       flew far above this wood, And she saw the devastation where       the forest once had stood.

She was no more mere observer, now she'd fight to save and       teach, And she traveled `round the planet, bringing hope       within her reach. On three hundred days of travel, every year       for decades long, Speaking, begging, preaching, pleading,       singing out her urgent song:

``Every person makes a difference, every action matters       true, And the future of our planet, of all life, depends on       you.'' On October first she left us, and she shed all mortal       cares. Ninety-one years of devotion, of a life of answered       prayers.

Jane, who gave her life to nature, and gave voice to all       things wild, Has returned unto the earth now, still a       curious, loving child. So we weep for Jane this evening,       though we know she'd ask us: ``Why? I have lived the life I       dreamed of underneath the broadest sky.''

As we mourn for you, dear Jane, your great legacy burns       bright, And the world's a kinder place because you brought us       to the light. For in every child who plants a tree, in every       soul who cares, In every word of hope and faith, we find you       standing there.

Rest now in peace, dear Jane Goodall, in earth you loved       and knew, You showed us how to live with grace, with courage       strong and true. And when the wind sings through the Gombe       trees, chimps call at dawn, Remembering one who loved them--      Though she's gone, her work lives on.