Chronic Disease Flexible Coverage Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688477/chronic-disease-flexible-coverage-act


Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee  and, of course, my good friend, Representative Vern Buchanan, an  excellent member of the Ways and Means Committee for their work on this  bill.

With his work, I rise today to support this legislation, the Chronic  Disease Flexible Coverage Act. This is bipartisan, commonsense  legislation to allow predeductible health coverage for chronic disease  patients with a high deductible health plan, otherwise known as HDHP.

This commonsense legislation, as you heard from the chairman, already  passed Congress last session under the leadership of my friends and  former colleagues, Brad Wenstrup and Earl Blumenauer. It is common  sense mainly because, as you heard from the chairman, chronic disease  is so common.

Mr. Speaker, 6 in 10 adult Americans have a chronic disease, which is  the leading cause of disabilities in the United States of America. Mr.  Speaker, 90 percent of our annual health spending goes to chronic  disease and mental health management. While these chronic diseases are  common, they are also manageable if we just do everything that we can  to improve access to care.

In my 19th Congressional District on the central coast of California,  the number one thing I hear about from constituents is access to  healthcare or, I should say, the lack of access to healthcare. The one  thing that is clear, though, is that insurance doesn't do you much good  if you can't use it.

In 2023, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,  more than 43 percent of people with employer-based coverage had an  HDHP. Moreover, 56 percent of employers offer an HDHP. However, nearly  59 percent of Americans--that is nearly 6 in 10 people--lack $1,000 in  savings to handle an emergency expense.

That is exactly why expanding HDHP coverage to offer critical care  for some of our most medically vulnerable constituents isn't just the  right thing to do. It is the smart thing to do.

The Chronic Disease Flexible Coverage Act codifies IRS guidance to  expand the safe harbor for high deductible health plans offering  predeductible care for chronic conditions. It lets employers offer  first-dollar access to care for patients with diabetes, asthma, high  blood pressure, and many more, as the chairman mentioned.

When this IRS guidance was originally issued in 2019, a survey found  that 76 percent, or more than three-quarters, of employers expanded  predeductible coverage for chronic diseases. Codifying this policy now  will save countless lives by helping more patients manage their  conditions and stay healthy.

That is why this bill is endorsed by so many, from chronic disease  advocates to health benefit groups to small business associations. That  is why I recommend my colleagues to vote for the Chronic Disease  Flexible Coverage Act.

Again, I thank Congressman Buchanan, and I thank the chairman for  bringing this bill forward.

Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield  myself the balance of my time for the purpose of closing.

Mr. Speaker, as you have heard, this legislation has bipartisan  support and support from a broad coalition of employers and health  stakeholders. I appreciate my colleagues on the other side being so  concerned and so focused on this. Let's just hope they have that same  concern when it comes to Medicaid and Medicare going forward,  especially with the reconciliation package.

They understand, and we understand, that it is critical that we start  expanding access to preventative care and chronic care management to  stem the tide of chronic disease.

Passing the Chronic Disease Flexible Coverage Act will improve long- term health outcomes, let businesses offer superior health benefits,  and strengthen healthcare for everyone.

Once again, I encourage my colleagues to support this legislation,  and I yield back the balance of my time.