Disaster Related Extension of Deadlines Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689313/disaster-related-extension-of-deadlines-act


I rise in support of H.R. 1491, the Disaster Related Extension of  Deadlines Act, authored and introduced by my friend, the gentleman from  North Carolina (Mr. Murphy).

I thank the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee for doing an  excellent job in summarizing not just the issue but the solution with  this bipartisan legislation, for it is this type of legislation that  would ensure that tax deadlines remain aligned in disaster zones and  that those who have survived natural disasters are not penalized by  confusing collection notices or a shortened tax lookback period.

Now, currently, taxpayers have a 3-year lookback period after a  filing deadline to claim a refund or missed credits. However, when the  IRS extends filing deadlines for those affected by natural disasters,  the deadline for the lookback period is not extended. This leads  taxpayers, as you can imagine, Mr. Speaker, in disaster areas to lose  out on money that they are owed because their lookback period is  shorter than expected.

This bill would fix that, by aligning the lookback period with the  postponed tax deadline for disaster zones. Additionally, this bill  solves the problem of misaligned deadlines and confusing collection  notices after a natural disaster.

Since current law requires the IRS to send a notice and demand for  payment of tax within 60 days of processing a tax filing, individuals  in disaster zones who file early but wait to pay often get confusing  notices and demands for payment. These notices are sent long before  payment is due and also cause panic and confusion during the difficult  task of disaster recovery.

This bill, again, would fix that issue by requiring the IRS to take  into account tax deadlines postponed because of disasters when issuing  collection notices. It can take years to financially recover from a  natural disaster, as many of us in this House have experienced with our  constituents. Ensuring  those who are recovering can claim what they are owed and do not have  to worry about confusing collection notices is the absolute least that  we can do.

This bill is an easy win, and it is the type of policy that makes  government work and improves people's lives that we should be focused  more on in Congress. This bill is an example of how government should  help people. We are providing a plan based on a law that would help the  government better serve people, especially in a time of need.

This is why we should come together and support the bipartisan  Disaster Related Extension of Deadlines Act. I urge my colleagues to  support this bill that would help our government be better in helping  those constituents in times of need all across this country.

Mr. Speaker, I want to say briefly in closing that, as you have  heard, this legislation has tremendous bipartisan support and will  remove burdensome processes at the IRS to make government work better  for our constituents after a disaster.

I appreciate Mr. Murphy talking about his district in North Carolina  and the devastation that his constituents have experienced. In the 19th  Congressional District, I am at the edge of the continent as well, on  the west side of the continent, all the way across the country from Mr.  Murphy's district, but we, too, are at the tip of the spear when it  comes to floods, fires, storms, and other natural disasters. That is  why I think, as you heard from Mr. Murphy, and I agree, that this is  not a partisan issue.

Never should disaster assistance be a partisan issue. This has full  bipartisan support because full financial recovery after a natural  disaster can take years. Aligning tax deadlines from the IRS is the  absolute least that we can do for our constituents who are rebuilding  their lives.

Mr. Speaker, once again, I thank my colleagues, Representative Murphy  and Chairman Smith, for their work on this bill, and I encourage my  colleagues to support H.R. 1491, the Disaster Related Extension of  Deadlines Act.