Recognizing Seaside Police Department Chief Nick Borges


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689139/recognizing-seaside-police-department-chief-nick-borges


Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Seaside Police  Department Chief Nick Borges and many others for their dedication and  doggedness to solve the case called the ``American Nightmare.''

Aptly named, this case started back in 2015 in Vallejo, California,  when Matthew Muller broke into the home of Denise and Aaron Quinn,  drugged and bound them, and kidnapped Denise. Muller then took Denise  to a cabin near Lake Tahoe where he sexually assaulted her and released  her 3 days later down in southern California.

Of course, Aaron immediately called the authorities, but the Vallejo  Police Department was unable to solve the crime. This is after they  interrogated Aaron for hours upon hours, brushing aside his  explanation, trying to get him to confess to killing Denise.

Ultimately, after Aaron wouldn't confess to something he didn't do,  the detectives accused both Aaron and Denise of faking and lying about  the whole thing. The detectives even went as far as putting out a  formal statement, calling the whole thing a hoax and that, given the  facts that had been presented thus far, this event appeared to be an  orchestrated event, not a crime.

Madam Speaker, get this. Around the same time period, Muller  committed several more home invasions. He eventually got caught and  convicted for those similar crimes. The Vallejo detectives never  connected Muller to the kidnapping of Denise.

It was such a sensational story about how the detectives acted and  about how Aaron and Denise allegedly concocted a kidnapping that even  Netflix came out with a documentary called the ``American Nightmare.''  Madam Speaker, it became one of the most watched docuseries on Netflix.

Fortunately, one of the people who watched that Netflix series was  Seaside Police Chief Nick Borges. Chief Borges didn't have anything to  do with that case, but after watching the documentary in 2024, he  literally reached out to Denise and Aaron. He let them know that even  he was disgusted with the way the Vallejo detectives conducted the  interviews and that Denise and Aaron had the backing of law  enforcement, despite how they were treated.

Chief Borges then decided to meet with the couple, along with Alameda  County Detective Misty Carausu and El Dorado County DA Vern Pierson,  all of whom felt that the investigation was mishandled. The group then  started their own investigation and quickly found that Muller was in  custody for similar crimes in the same areas.

Chief Borges then simply and literally reached out to Muller who was  in custody on his other similar crimes, and he asked Muller if he would  want to talk about the crimes against Aaron and Denise. Madam Speaker,  if you can imagine this, Muller responded, and he admitted what he did  do to Denise.

Further investigation by the group and getting the FBI involved led  authorities to the Lake Tahoe cabin where they found further evidence  to corroborate the crimes that Muller committed against Denise and  Aaron. Eventually, Muller ended up pleading guilty to those crimes, as  well as others that he had committed in the area.

Madam Speaker, as DA Pierson said: This was a very unusual, crazy set  of facts. It unfortunately had detectives who didn't believe Aaron and  Denise from the start, as well as those who used some outdated  investigation and interrogation techniques, that led them down the  wrong path.

Fortunately, though, police officers with common sense got involved  to help solve this case. Moreover, Denise, Aaron, Chief Borges, and  others are now working with law enforcement to change how  interrogations are conducted and to ensure that what Aaron and Denise  experienced never happens again.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to commend Denise and Aaron for their  fortitude, for their resilience, and for their belief in law  enforcement. I recognize Seaside Police Chief Borges and the other law  enforcement officers who used common sense and their humanity to not  only solve this case with a sense of justice but to do what is right in  our society.