Welcoming the Positive Outcomes of the C5+1 Summit and U.S.-Central Asia Partnership


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696589/welcoming-the-positive-outcomes-of-the-c51-summit-and-us-central-asia-partnership


Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome the positive  outcomes of the C5+1 Summit, held in Washington, D.C., on November 6,  2025. This high-level meeting reaffirmed the United States' partnership  with the nations of Central Asia--Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan,  Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan--in promoting regional stability, economic  growth, and sustainable development. It also led to valuable strides in  our mutual partnership including the announcement of Kazakhstan's  intent to join the Abraham accords and commitments to regional partners  on critical mineral investment.

Over the years, the C5+1 format has evolved into an important  platform for advancing dialogue, strengthening regional cooperation,  and expanding opportunities for trade, investment, and connectivity.  The recent summit in Washington underscored the mutual benefits of  deeper cooperation between the United States and Central Asia from  enhancing supply chain resilience and diversifying access to critical  minerals, to fostering people-to-people exchanges and educational  partnerships.

Looking ahead, we hope to build on this relationship by advancing our  efforts to lift the outdated Jackson Vanik amendment, which has long  been an irritant in the trade relationship between the United States  and the Central Asian nations. Lifting this amendment would underscore  the U.S. commitment to the region, and provide the stability needed to  foster mutual investment and growth. We also hope to build on the  momentum of the summit with continued high-level engagements and visits  between the U.S. and Central Asia.

Mr. Speaker, the outcomes of the C5+1 Summit reaffirm our shared  vision of a stable, prosperous, and interconnected Central Asia, one  that contributes to global security and economic opportunity. The  United States stands ready to continue working hand-in-hand with our  partners across the region to turn this vision into lasting results.