Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700512/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman, my good friend, Mr.  Mast, for yielding and for his leadership on highlighting the error of  removing the United States' Armed Forces from a conflict that will  bring an end to a 47-year engagement.

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake about it: The Iranian regime is the  largest state sponsor of terrorism in the world. Despite extensive  diplomatic efforts, the regime refuses to give up its nuclear weapon  ambitions, its ballistic, cruise, and antiship missile production and  proliferation, or its support of terror.

As Secretary Rubio said yesterday: ``Iran is run by lunatics,  religious fanatic lunatics. They have an ambition to have nuclear  weapons. They intend to develop those nuclear weapons behind a program  of missiles and drones and terrorism that the world will not be able to  touch them for fear of those things.''

When these murderous despots tell us that they want to eliminate us  from existence, which they have said time and time again over the past  47 years, and now, in a relatively short timeframe, they attempt to  sprint to the finish line by significantly hardening their conventional  defensive posture, expediting the development of nuclear weapons and  showing their desperation by slaughtering thousands of their own  people, it is clear that we have reached the point of no return--a  point after which it is too late to respond.

We all know that we wouldn't be here today if the President's name  weren't Donald Trump. Democrats have been calling for the U.S. to take  action against Iran until Donald Trump did so.

Last month, Democrats sponsored H.R. 7380, the IRAN Act, chastising  the Iranian regime for repeatedly shutting down internet connectivity  and impeding the Iranian people from communicating during emergencies  and exercising internationally recognized human rights.

Earlier this year, the Democrat-sponsored H.R. 5912, the DISRUPT Act,  would require the executive branch to ``develop a whole-of-government  strategy to disrupt growing cooperation among the People's Republic of  China, the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea, which are the foremost  adversaries of the United States, and mitigate the risks posed to the  United States.''

This Democrat bill even states that the partnering of these four U.S.  adversaries ``reinforces threats posed by each such adversary  individually.''

It seems pretty clear to me that the Democratic rhetoric has argued  in  favor of cracking down on the brutal Iran regime--of course, until  President Trump was the one to initiate the regime's demise.

President Trump has the duty to protect Americans and the United  States' interests both at home and abroad. The administration engaged  in earnest diplomacy to mitigate the Iranian threat. It became crystal  clear, however, that the Iranian regime used the diplomatic process to  buy itself time to reconstitute its ballistic missile inventories and  nuclear weapons program.

As the threat neared its apex, a point beyond which mitigation would  be impossible, President Trump lived up to his duty as Commander in  Chief and took decisive action.

On March 2, President Trump notified Congress, consistent with the  oft-criticized War Powers Resolution of 1973, of military action used  to address this threat to the American people and American interests.

In other words, the President has clearly acted consistent with  precedent and has prosecuted this military action in a transparent and  forthcoming manner, holding multiple press conferences and sending his  Cabinet officials and operational experts to provide multiple  classified briefings on the status of the ongoing conflict to all  Members of Congress, as well as the appropriate committees and their  staffs.

Mr. Speaker, passing the measure today would do nothing to keep  America safe. It would do nothing to strengthen Congress. All it would  do is put America's safety and all of its allies at risk. It would  allow Iran to once again rebuild its murderous regime and terrorize the  world.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.'' I thank Chairman  Mast for his partnership and leadership.