Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698040/promoting-efficient-review-for-modern-infrastructure-today-act


Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Chair, this amendment is so great, you are not even  going to believe it.

Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of my amendment to H.R. 3898, the  PERMIT Act, that offers a solution to compensatory mitigation.

A lack of wetland mitigation credits is holding back residential  housing construction, and the available credits are increasingly  expensive.

These costs are passed down to the consumer, exacerbating the already  unaffordable housing market that the U.S. is facing.

Unpredictable and lengthy permitting timelines for mitigation banks  are making it more challenging to bring new credits to the market.  Moreover, the requirement to purchase mitigation credits located within  the same hydraulic unit code--geographic area determined by surface  hydraulic features--can mean that credits available at a nearby wetland  bank cannot be used if they are too far away.

Without available credits, a builder's second option is in-lieu fee  programs; however, not all States offer this option, or builders can  use a permittee-responsible mitigation. Still, most builders are not  equipped to carry this out. Both options are expensive and burdensome.

My amendment fixes this issue by increasing the supply of mitigation  bank credits, driving down the cost curve, and lowering home prices  both through directly lowering the regulatory cost of building a new  home and allowing builders to use lots that the cost of mitigation  today prevents them from using.

Additionally, my amendment directs the Army Corps of Engineers and  EPA to publish a revised compensatory mitigation rule that incorporates  advances in science and lessons learned since 2007; promotes  equivalency and flexibility among mitigation options, providing  builders additional options beyond mitigation bank credits; speeds the  approval of mitigation banks, including through the interagency review  process, which provides numerous duplicative opportunities for the Army  Corps offices to raise the same concerns; allows for mitigation credits  to be used across multiple hydraulic unit codes; and allows for out-of- kind mitigation where appropriate.

Together, these changes will increase the availability of credits and  provide alternatives to ensure that a lack of credits doesn't hamstring  new developments.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support my amendment to H.R.

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Chair, I am very pleased to recognize that my  friends on the other side of the aisle do recognize that we have a real  big problem with compliance burdens and the costs associated with that,  and how that prevents Americans from realizing the American Dream of  homeownership. As they raise the point of affordability, they neglect  the fact that we can address affordability by reducing costs to  potential homeowners.

At least we can agree that we have a cumbersome regulatory framework  that needs to be fixed. This helps fix and is actually a proactive step  in addressing the affordability crisis. One of those things has to do  with homeownership, and by adopting this amendment, we are increasing  the likelihood that an American can actually build a home and realize  the American Dream.

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Chair, I have heard this mentioned more than once  today, and that is that we need to increase the number of personnel to  process, manage, and administer the regulatory burdens that Americans  are facing. Let me say that again. The Democrats say we need to  increase personnel because the regulatory burden is so cumbersome that  it takes additional personnel to be able to administer it. That seems  counterintuitive to regulatory relief.

Mr. Chair, I urge passage of my amendment, and I yield back the  balance of my time.