Recognizing the Retirement of Mr. Glendon Markin, II


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700600/recognizing-the-retirement-of-mr-glendon-markin-ii


Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr. Glendon  Markin, II, a dedicated veteran who has served our country in national  security positions for more than 25 years. His excellence in the field  is not only an extraordinary personal milestone, but a testament to the  character and commitment he brings to every endeavor.

In 2002, Glen joined the United States Navy, after serving as a  legislative aid in the U.S. House of Representatives during the  September 11, 2001, attacks. His service in the Navy included tours in  support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom,  exemplifying steadfast dedication, courage, and devotion to duty.

Following his military service, he continued protecting America in  several critical roles within the Office of the Director of National  Intelligence, including as the Deputy Assistant Director for  Legislative Affairs. In that role, Glen provided essential guidance to  the Intelligence Community regarding legislative strategy. He oversaw  stewardship of the National Intelligence Program budget, aligned  congressional engagement strategies across all intelligence elements,  ensured Congress was appropriately informed, and supported the Senate  confirmation of five presidential appointees.

Most recently, he has been serving as the Director of the Office of  Congressional and Public Affairs at the National Reconnaissance Office.  In this role, he applies his expertise in translating complex,  technical information to achieve legislative and public engagement  successes.

Beyond his distinguished service, Glen treasures his role as a  husband and father to his wife and their two daughters. He exemplifies  commitment, a strong work ethic, and a resilient passion for the  traditions we hold dear.

In honor of his upcoming retirement, I congratulate Mr. Markin and  extend my deepest appreciation for his enduring contributions to the  United States and to the Intelligence Community. I wish him every  happiness that life has to offer in the next chapter of life. May God  bless him, and may God Bless America.