Successful Operation to Arrest Nicolas Maduro


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698882/successful-operation-to-arrest-nicolas-maduro


Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, it is particularly important with this  Special Order to clear the air. Americans deserve no less than to  understand the truth of what just transpired in Venezuela.

Nicolas Maduro has been removed as the reigning despot,  narcoterrorist, and illegitimate President of Venezuela. This fact is a  momentous and great thing, pure and simple.

Notwithstanding what you might have heard from many Democrats when  President Trump's successfully ordered Maduro's arrest and  exfiltration, the realization on the part of the world, especially  Venezuelans, that Maduro's sword of repression has come to an end  resulted in praise and thanksgiving. This mission clearly showed  America's full force and capability to instigate good in the world and  battle the forces of evil.

Americans woke up on January 3, 2026, to news that our truly  courageous and skillful intelligence community, law enforcement, and  military had executed a mission that is simply unbelievable if we had  not heard about the exploits soon thereafter.

What an unprecedented risk our men and women took on that day to do  what no other political administration in the world had ever  contemplated as remotely possible: to remove and exfiltrate for  prosecution a ruthless dictator whose direct involvement in  narcoterrorism has led to the death of scores of Americans and other  allies' citizens.

Please don't take my word for the nature of Maduro's reign over  Venezuela. My Democrat colleagues have for years been raising the alarm  of Maduro's destruction through a multitude of legislative measures.  Just a small subset of this Democrat-led legislation is cited in a  House resolution--H. Res. 987--we have introduced today.

Examples include H.R. 328, a Democratic-sponsored bill that  excoriates the Maduro regime which ``has refused to respect the  overwhelming choice of  the people of Venezuela and subsequently arrested and abused thousands  of innocent citizens of Venezuela, including children, for peaceful  political participation.''

Mr. Speaker, consider H. Res. 1471 of the 118th Congress, another  Democratic-sponsored piece of legislation that stresses ``Venezuela,  where actors linked to the regime of Nicolas Maduro have engaged in a  sustained and synchronized campaign of disinformation to undermine the  country's 2023-2024 electoral process, invalidate the results of such  elections, and attack Maria Corina Machado and other opposition  leaders.''

Mr. Speaker, pointing to the threat closer to home, Democratic- sponsored H.R. 8741 of the 118th Congress defined Maduro as a person of  concern who is engaged in a ``long-term pattern or serious instances of  activity adverse to the national security of the United States, the  security of critical infrastructure of the United States, or the safety  and security of United States persons.''

Mr. Speaker, contemplate Democratic-sponsored H.R. 5670 of the 118th  Congress that succinctly called for ``an end to the usurpation of  Presidential authorities by Nicolas Maduro.''

Yet, despite this forgoing string of legislation sponsored by my  friends on the other side of the aisle pointing to Maduro's reign of  terror, sadly, President Trump's decisive actions to do something about  it all seems to have caused a reversal in sentiment among Democrats.  Rather than expressing unity during a time when the Western Hemisphere  has been freed from a despot's clutch, instead, Democrats have called  the Trump administration ``warmongers'' who are ``lying to the American  people,'' or referring to the President himself as having put us in a  ``fascist cul-de-sac,'' having committed ``an impeachable offense.''

Do these comments from Democrats sound supportive of the Trump  administration or the fine men and women who successfully conducted one  of the most daring operations in American history? Not to me. Not to  any American who reads or hears them.

Instead, they seem to revel in demeaning a President whose  administration just accomplished what the Democrats have never been  able to do; that is, executing Maduro's demise.

Despite a long, laundry list of Democratic bills and resolutions  seemingly hoping for Maduro's eventual removal, Democrats now choose to  attack those who were able to make reality their previously voiced  ambitions. Yet merely because it was the Trump administration which  graciously performed the seemingly impossible, these Democrats now  oppose one of America's greatest hours.

To this end, we introduced a resolution today to make clear that the  House of Representatives is supportive of the efforts of our brave  patriots who deftly brought an end to Maduro's terrorization of not  only the good people of Venezuela but also those Americans and others  who have experienced Maduro's drug-laden terrorism.

This Special Order and the related House resolution clarify one  thing: America is grateful for this administration's efforts to rid the  world of a freedom-killing, murderous dictator. We are all better for  it.

Mr. Speaker, I now recognize my friend, vice chairman of the House  Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the gentleman from  Mississippi (Mr. Kelly).

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Mississippi for  his remarks.

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I recognize the gentleman from Arkansas,  Mr. Hill, my colleague and the distinguished member of the House  Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, as well as the chairman of  the Committee on Financial Services.

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to recognize the gentleman  from Georgia, Mr. Austin Scott, my good friend and a distinguished  member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and  chairman of the Subcommittee on the National Intelligence Enterprise.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I have, as other Members, gotten a number of calls over  the last couple of days about whether or not I think the President did  the right thing or not. I will read this to you: ``. . . President of  the United States of America, find that the situation in Venezuela,  including the government of Venezuela's erosion of human rights  guarantees, persecution of political opponents, curtailment of press  freedoms, use of violence and human rights violations and abuses in  response to antigovernment protests, and arbitrary arrest and detention  of antigovernment protestors, as well as the exacerbating presence of  significant public corruption, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary  threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United  States. . . .''

Now, what I want you to know is that wasn't Donald Trump that wrote  that. That was Barack Obama that wrote that. If President Obama or  President Biden had taken the same actions to remove Maduro from power  and help not just the United States but the Western Hemisphere and the  world as a whole, I can honestly tell you that Republicans would have  applauded those actions. Because it was President Trump and the Trump  derangement syndrome and the hatred that Democrats have for him, he has  been attacked for it.

Remember this: President Trump did put a bounty on Maduro, but it was  President Biden that raised the bounty to $25 million in January of  this year.

Chuck Schumer in 2020 attacked: ``And the President brags about his  Venezuela policy. Give us a break. He hasn't brought an end to the  Maduro regime. The Maduro regime is more powerful today and more  entrenched than it was when the President began.''

That was Chuck Schumer in 2020.

What is Chuck Schumer saying today? ``This is reckless. And the  American people are just, this morning, in fear of what is going to  happen here.''

Let me tell you something. The world is a safer place because of what  Donald Trump ordered and what our military carried out this past week.  The Western Hemisphere cannot be a safe space for China, Russia, Iran,  Hamas, Hezbollah, or the other terrorists that were being given safe  haven in Venezuela.

Speaker Pelosi in 2019 ended her round table comments with a  resounding: ``It is clear Maduro must go, the sooner the better.''

Madam Speaker, you should congratulate President Trump. Instead, what  did she say: ``Venezuela is ruled by an illegitimate regime, but the  administration has not made the case  that an urgent threat to America's national security existed to justify  the use of U.S. military force.''

Mr. Speaker, I am thankful that we have a President in the White  House with the guts to get it done, who has helped us build a military  with the capability to get it done. It was one of the most impressive  military operations that I think the world has ever witnessed. Those  men and women, whether they were on the ground, in the air, or  supporting that mission, deserve commendations, not criticism, as does  the President of the United States, Donald Trump.

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I am now pleased to recognize my good  friend from Florida, Greg Steube, also a member and colleague on the  House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida for his  eloquent comments.

I yield to the gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Tenney), who is also my  colleague on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from New York for  those outstanding comments.

Mr. Speaker, I take no pleasure in highlighting the hypocrisy of my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle. In fact, I wish we all could  speak with one voice on this issue. It should never be partisan or  controversial to praise the arrest of a man like Nicolas Maduro.

Make no mistake about it, Nicolas Maduro is a murderer, an autocrat,  a narcoterrorist, and a thug who has oppressed his people, stolen  elections, and turned a once prosperous and free country into a  desperate nation that millions have fled. We should all be celebrating  the actions of the Trump administration in attempting to bring him to  justice.

Sadly, as we have shown today, many of my Democrat friends who were  once on the right side of this issue have changed their minds simply  because Nicolas Maduro's arrest was orchestrated by someone they don't  like, President Trump.

Instead of celebrating the administration of justice by an impartial  U.S. court, they bemoan it. They call it unconstitutional, illegal,  impeachable, and fascist. They insinuate that our government is somehow  no better than Maduro's Socialist and murderous regime. That is just  nonsense. In fact, it is embarrassing for those Members.

I respect my colleagues, both Democrat and Republican, who have long  opposed the Maduro regime and the Chavez regime before it, people like  Representatives Salazar and Gimenez, who represent thousands of  Venezuelan Americans whose families or themselves have experienced the  terror of  Venezuelan Socialism and oppression. I thank them for taking the time  to support us and for showing why this effort in Congress is so vital.  Without voices like theirs bringing us the true feelings of Venezuelan  Americans, we would only have heard from those who cared more about  opposing the President than bringing an oppressor to justice.

I also thank the many nameless, faceless Americans who planned and  executed this daring and successful arrest. The public will never know  their names or see their faces. Americans who have suffered from drug  overdoses in their families brought on by illegal narcotics trafficked  to the U.S. by Maduro and his cronies will never get to thank those  individuals. I thank them, and I want them to know that they are being  prayed for and thanked for all that they have done.

Bringing a man like Nicolas Maduro to justice won't bring back the  millions of Americans we have lost to drugs or the countless numbers of  Venezuelans who have been political victims of the regime, but it is a  start.

Mr. Speaker, justice is worth fighting for. A Western Hemisphere free  from drug trafficking and gangs, supported and run by illegitimate  autocrats, is worth fighting for. Standing behind our principles, even  when it is politically inconvenient, is a posture worth fighting for.

Mr. Speaker, as I close tonight, I remind the American people that  this administration's law enforcement actions to bring Maduro to  justice have received the full support of Republicans in Congress. I  hope my Democratic colleagues, who were once in favor of such actions,  will be able to put aside their animus toward the President and embrace  new possibilities for the people of Venezuela.