Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, an impeachment trial of a sitting  President of the United States is not a matter to be taken lightly. A  President should not and must not be impeached because of political  disagreements or policy differences. That is what elections are for.  Instead, an impeachment trial occurs when a President violates the oath  he or she swore to uphold the Constitution of the United States. 

  Therefore, there are two questions for me to answer as a juror in the  impeachment trial of President Donald J. Trump: whether President Trump  is guilty of abusing his power as President for his own political gain  and whether he obstructed Congress in their investigation of him. 

  The first Article of Impeachment charges President Trump with abuse  of power when he ``solicited the interference of a foreign government,  Ukraine, in the 2020 United States Presidential election.'' Based on  the evidence I heard during the Senate trial, Trump ``corruptly  solicited'' an investigation into former Vice President Joe Biden and  his son in order to benefit his own reelection chances. To increase the  pressure on Ukraine, President Trump then withheld approximately $400  million in military aid from Ukraine. Finally, according to the  charges, even when Trump's scheme to withhold aid was made public, he  ``persisted in openly and corruptly urging and soliciting Ukraine to  undertake investigations for his personal political benefit.'' So on  this first Article of Impeachment, it is my view that the President is  clearly guilty. 

  The second Article of Impeachment asserts that Trump obstructed  Congress in its investigation of Trump's abuse of power, stating that  Trump ``has directed the unprecedented, categorical, and indiscriminate  defiance of subpoenas issued by the House of Representatives pursuant  to its `sole Power of Impeachment.' '' According to the warped logic of  the arguments presented by the President's counsel, there are almost no  legal bounds to anything a President can do so long as it benefits his  own reelection. If a President cannot be investigated criminally or by  Congress while in office, then he or she would be effectively above the  law. President Trump, who raised absurd legal arguments to hide his  actions and obstruct Congress, is clearly guilty here as well. 

  Now, frankly, while the House of Representatives passed two Articles  of Impeachment, President Trump could have been impeached for more than  just that. 

  For example, it seems clear that Donald Trump has violated both the  domestic and foreign emoluments clauses. In other words, it appears  Trump has used the Federal Government over and over to benefit himself  financially. 

  In 2018 alone, Trump's organization made over $40 million in profit  just from his Trump hotel in DC alone. And foreign governments,  including lobbying firms connected to the Saudi Arabian Government,  have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars at that hotel. That appears  to be corruption, pure and simple. 

  In addition, as we all know, there is significant evidence that  Donald Trump committed obstruction of justice with regard to the Robert  Mueller investigation by, among other actions, firing the FBI Director,  James Comey. 

  One of the difficulties of dealing with President Trump and his  administration is that we cannot trust his words. He is a pathological  liar who, according to media research, has lied thousands of times  since he was elected. During the trial, I posed a question to the House  impeachment managers: Given that the media has documented President  Trump's thousands of lies while in office--more than 16,200 as of  January 20, 2020--why would we be expected to believe that anything  President Trump says has credibility? The answer is that, sadly, we  cannot. 

  Sadly, we now have a President who sees himself as above the law and  is either ignorant or indifferent to the Constitution. And we have a  President who clearly committed impeachable offenses. 

  The evidence of Trump's guilt is so overwhelming that the Republican  Party, for the first time in the history of Presidential impeachment,  obstructed testimony from witnesses--even willing witnesses. It defies  basic common sense that in a trial to determine whether the President  of the United States is above the law, the Senate would not hear from  the people who could speak directly to President Trump's behavior and  motive. Leader Mitch McConnell's handling of this trial, unfortunately,  was nothing more than a political act. 

  Yet this impeachment trial is about more than just the charges  against President Trump. What this impeachment vote will decide is  whether we believe that the President, any President, is above the law. 

  Last week, Alan Dershowitz, one of President Trump's lawyers, argued  to the Senate that a President cannot be impeached for any actions he  or she takes that are intended to benefit their own reelection. That is  truly an extraordinary and unconstitutional assertion. If Trump is  acquitted, I fear the repercussions of this argument would do grave  damage to the rule of law in our country. 

  Imagine what such a precedent would allow an incumbent president to  get away with for the sake of their own reelection. Hacking an  opponent's email using government resources? Soliciting election  interference from China? Under this argument, what would stop a  President from withholding infrastructure or education funding to a  given State to pressure elected officials into helping the President  politically? 

  Let me be clear: Republicans will set a dangerous and lawless  precedent if they vote to acquit President Trump. A Republican  acquittal of Donald Trump won't just mean that the current President is  above the law; it will give a green light to all future Presidents to  disregard the law so long as it benefits their reelection. 

  It gives me no pleasure to conclude that President Donald Trump is  guilty of the offenses laid out in the two Articles of Impeachment. I  will vote to convict on both counts. But my greater concern is if  Republicans acquit President Trump by undercutting the very rule of  law. That will truly be remembered as a sad and dangerous moment in the  history of our country. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT