Letter to Jeff Bezos, President, CEO of Amazon.com, Inc. - Warren, Sanders, Booker, Brown & Colleagues Call for More Information from Jeff Bezos on Amazon's Firing of Whistleblowers


Dear Mr. Bezos:

We are writing to seek information about your company's policies for discipline andtermination regarding workers who raise health and safety concerns. Since the coronavirusdisease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic began, Amazon has fired at least four Amazon workers whohad publicly raised concerns about safety conditions in Amazon warehouses. In order tounderstand how the termination of employees that raised concerns about health and safetyconditions did not constitute retaliation for whistleblowing, we are requesting information aboutAmazon's policies regarding grounds for employee discipline and termination.

Since the pandemic began, there have been at least four public reports of cases whereAmazon has fired workers following their public whistleblowing:

 Christian Smalls worked for Amazon for five years at a warehouse in Staten Island, New York, where at least one employee has tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Smalls had been "trying to persuade senior warehouse officials to close the building and sterilize it, but to no avail" due to the coronavirus exposure at his job site.3 When management did not respond, Mr. Smalls helped organized a walkout, calling on Amazon to close the facility so it could be deep cleaned.4 Amazon fired Mr. Smalls after the walkout -- andthen designed a public relations strategy which, according to a leaked memo, called for"strongly laying out the case for why the organizer's conduct was immoral, unacceptable,and arguably illegal, in detail, and only then follow with our usual talking points aboutworker safety."5 Vice reports that Amazon executives discussed "us[ing] Smalls to discredit the wider labor movement at Amazon," where workers had sought to unionize in 2018."

Bashir Mohamed worked at a warehouse in Shakopee, Minnesota. Amazon fired himearlier this month. Mr. Mohamed had been raising concerns about "the impossibility ofpracticing social distancing in the facility." He was given a ""final warning' in lateMarch for allegedly not following the recommendation for six feet of social distancingwhile speaking to a colleague in the parking lot."9 Amazon told the press, "We respectthe rights of employees to protest and recognize their legal right to do so; however, theserights do not provide blanket immunity against bad actions, particularly those thatendanger the health, wellbeing or safety of their colleagues."

Maren Costa worked as a user experience designer for Amazon for more than 15 years.Maren was a member of Amazon Employees for Climate Justice, and had been publiclysupporting warehouse workers' advocacy, including offering to match donations "tosupport [her] Amazon warehouse colleagues and their communities, while they struggleto get consistent, sufficient protections and procedures from [Amazon]."12 Amazon saidMs. Costa was fired for "repeatedly violating internal policies" regarding externalcommunications.13 Amazon told press, "We support every employee's right to criticizetheir employer's working conditions, but that does not come with blanket immunityagainst any and all internal policies."

Emily Cunningham worked as a user experience designer for Amazon for more than fiveyears, and was also a member of Amazon Employees for Climate Justice.Ms. Cunningham had circulated a petition calling on Amazon to "expand sick leave, hazardpay and child care for warehouse workers," and "temporarily shut down facilities where workers were confirmed to have the virus so the facilities could be sterilized." Amazon issued the same statement for Ms. Cunningham and Ms. Costa's firing.

Amazon has closed some warehouses for 48 hours for deep cleaning after employees testpositive for coronavirus,18 but these safety responses have not been sufficient. To date, more than100 Amazon warehouses have reportedly had positive coronavirus cases, according to internaltracking by United for Respect.19 At least three Amazon warehouse employees have died fromCOVID-19,20 including a worker in the facility where Mr. Smalls was fighting for safetyprotections.21 Amazon tech and warehouse workers held "sick out" day protests over the week ofApril 20 to protest safety conditions in warehouses and fulfillment centers -- more than 300warehouse workers representing dozens of warehouses pledged to call out of work.22 On May 4,an Amazon Vice President announced he had resigned "in dismay at Amazon firingwhistleblowers who were making noise about warehouse employees frightened of Covid-19."23In Kentucky, Governor Andy Beshear ordered Amazon to keep a warehouse closed for anadditional week beyond the 48 hour period for further cleaning, after three workers testedpositive for coronavirus.24 A New Jersey mayor has called on Amazon to close a warehouse inMiddlesex County after more than 30 employees reportedly tested positive for COVID-19.25This problem spans your facilities around the country, and the world: all Amazon warehouses in France are currently closed "after an appeals court upheld a ruling saying the company hadn'tdone enough to protect workers from the coronavirus."26Employers have a statutory duty to ensure workplaces are "free from recognized hazardsthat are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm" to employees."27 Inaddition, once an employee has filed a complaint with the Occupational Safety and HazardAdministration, "no person shall discharge or in any manner discriminate against" theemployee.28 The federal government advises workers: "If you have concerns, you have the rightto speak up about them without fear of retaliation."29Given the clear public history of these four workers' advocacy on behalf of health andsafety conditions for workers in Amazon warehouses preceding their terminations, andAmazon's vague public statements regarding violations of "internal policies," we are seekingadditional information to understand exactly what those internal policies are. We request yourresponse to the following questions no later than May 20, 2020:1. Do Amazon tech workers, Amazon warehouse workers, and Amazon executives havethe same discipline and termination policies?2. What "external communications" constitute a disciplinary violation for Amazonemployees?3. What internal policies dictate the difference between an "employee's right to criticizetheir employer's working conditions" and when criticizing working conditionsviolates "internal policies"?a. How are employees informed of these policies?b. Are these policies made available in multiple languages? If so, whichlanguages?c. Please provide a copy of the policy documents.4. What are grounds for termination for Amazon employees? Does Amazon considerraising concerns about health and safety conditions grounds for termination? Pleaseprovide a copy of the documents that outline these policies.5. Under what circumstances does Amazon give employees "warning[s]" prior totermination? How many warnings are given? Please provide a copy of the documentsthat outlines these policies.6. When a worker receives a "warning," how is this warning documented internally, andhow is it communicated to the employee receiving the warning?7. It was recently reported that Amazon's Whole Foods is doing assessments of"external risks," "store risks" and "team member sentiment" to assess potentialunionization activity.30 Is Amazon currently doing, or has Amazon previously done,any type of similar assessments for warehouses?8. Does Amazon do any type of analyses or internal tracking to identify or monitorworkers that may be organizing, planning strikes, or talking to the media?9. Does Amazon document which workers participate in walk-outs, strikes, or otherorganizing activities? If so, who is responsible for doing this, and how is thisinformation recorded?Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. 

Sincerely,