Letter to Steven Mnuchin, Department of the Treasury Secretary, and Charles Rettig, Internal Revenue Service Commissioner - Leahy, Sanders And Welch Push IRS To Ensure All Eligible Vermonters Receive Stimulus Checks


Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Commissioner Rettig,

The U.S. Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) have been chargedwith crucial responsibilities and we appreciate the enormous effort of all the workers at youragencies to get out the Economic Impact Payments (EIPs) during this challenging time. Whiletremendous work has been done, there is still a lot more work to do to ensure that every personeligible for an EIP receives the full amount that they are owed in a timely fashion.

We are writing today because of the significant delays and confusion during the processing andreceipt of the EIPs. We continue to receive reports from Vermonters who have yet to receivetheir EIPS after months of waiting, including Social Security beneficiaries. In addition, EIPsdelivered via prepaid debit cards are causing confusion for recipients and financial institutionstasked with processing withdrawals from the debit cards. Adding to the delays and confusion isthe lack of clear and timely guidance to the public and Congressional offices who assistconstituents with obtaining their EIPs.

We recognize the tremendous challenge that sending out the EIPs represents, but ourconstituents, some of whom may be homebound due to COVID 19 concerns, have waitedmonths for clarity and access to the EIPs. Social Security recipients, which include manyAmericans most in need, were promised speedy delivery, yet many of them are still waiting fortheir payment. Many Vermonters with internet access that have attempted to utilize the IRS GetMy Payment portal were met with repeated error messages or were provided with limited to noinformation about their payment status. We request an update with clear guidance about when allremaining Social Security recipients can expect their EIPs.

In late May, the IRS announced that it would speed up delivery by issuing prepaid debit cards.Unfortunately, the rollout of these cards has caused a number of additional problems. There havebeen reports of cards being thrown away because they are not clearly marked as importantdocuments, married couples with different last names have been misnamed on the cards, and theamount of funds for withdrawal being limited by financial institutions. Additionally, the failureof the IRS to coordinate this rollout with banks has led to circumstances where EIP recipientscould be charged a fee for attempting to deposit the payments. The potential fees are unfairbecause those who received paper checks or direct deposits are not subject to these costs. Werequest that you provide us with a summary of the process that was used to determine who was selected to receive the debit cards and how the financial institution that processed the cards wasselected. This analysis should include any background in the consideration that recipients ofthese debit cards could be subject to fees that others were not subject to.

The current guidance from the IRS is that any errors in EIP amounts will need to be corrected byVermonters when they file their 2020 tax returns. This is not acceptable given the immediateneed of many of our constituents. We urge you to change this approach and allow correctedpayments to be sent as soon as possible. Delaying benefits until 2021 will further impede theability of Vermonters to meet their basic needs and will continue to put pressure on alreadystrained resources.

Finally, while we have appreciated the direct engagement of the IRS with our offices, theinformation available to the public and Congressional offices has been insufficient, confusingand at times contradictory. EIP beneficiaries have been given tight deadlines with little noticeabout adding direct deposit and dependent children information. Similarly, Congressional officeshave in many cases been unable to get clear and timely guidance to many constituent questionsabout EIPs. We understand the IRS recently established a new casework email box forCongressional offices but are alarmed by recent guidance that suggests that if a Congressionaloffice submits a case to the new casework line, the IRS will call the constituent back directly.This is guidance could create real confusion given that past advice was that the IRS would notcall a person directly -- advice that was necessary because of the high number of scammerspurporting to be IRS agents. Please outline ways that your agencies will both improve outreachand guidance for the public and Congressional offices. Please also explain the decision to havethe IRS contact constituents directly.

We thank you for your ongoing efforts to bolster the financial stability of Americans as theyexperience the economic implications of this pandemic and urge you to provide the resourcesincluded in the CARES Act quickly and equitably.