Sanders to McConnell: Senate Needs Legislation NOW to Address Crisis Facing Working Class Americans


Let's be clear. We are in the midst of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. More than 100,000 Americans have died from the coronavirus, 40 million Americans have lost their jobs, millions have lost their health insurance and people across the country face hunger and the fear of being evicted from their homes.

Given the enormity of this crisis, it is incomprehensible for Senator McConnell to tell us that he sees no urgency in passing another emergency relief bill and that he wants to wait another month before taking action. The American people cannot afford to wait another month. Our most vulnerable communities are hungry, desperate and under enormous emotional stress. The American people want action from Congress and they want it NOW.

The House has acted. Now, the Senate must improve that legislation and boldly address the growing crises faced by the working families of our country. Here are some of the key provisions that must be included in he Senate bill.

1. The Paycheck Security Act. In order to avoid another Great Depression, the Senate must pass legislation to require the government to guarantee 100 percent of the paychecks and benefits of American workers up to $90,000 a year.

2. The Health Care Emergency Guarantee Act. During this public health crisis, everyone in America must be able to receive all of the medical care they need, regardless of their income, immigration status or insurance coverage. The Senate must pass legislation to empower Medicare to pay all of the medical bills of the uninsured and the under-insured -- including prescription drugs -- for the duration of the coronavirus pandemic.

3. $2,000 Emergency Monthly Payments. The one-time $1,200 check that Americans received is not nearly enough to pay the rent, put food on the table and make ends meet. During this unprecedented crisis, Congress has a responsibility to make sure that every working-class American receives a $2,000 emergency payment a month so they can pay their bills. This will also serve as a major stimulus in reviving the economy.