Developing and Empowering Our Aspiring Leaders Act of 2025


Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, I also rise in support of H.R. 4429, the  Developing and Empowering our Aspiring Leaders Act, or DEAL Act, which  is a critical bill to support innovation, entrepreneurship, and capital  formation.

The venture capital industry provides vital funding for early-stage  startups at points in their life cycle when they are generally deemed  to be too risky for traditional bank financing or for raising money on  the public market. This basically means that if we are going to have a  growing and innovative economy, then we have to have a healthy venture  capital sector.

Historically, venture capital earns investor returns and frees up  more capital to recycle in other companies by selling their mature  portfolio companies to strategic investors or taking them public on  public markets.

For a variety of reasons, including public company reporting  obligations, economic uncertainty, and the rise of private equity, U.S.  companies today are staying private much longer, which has reduced the  opportunities for venture capital firms to recycle their investment  dollars.

Some venture capital firms have sought to create new liquidity  options through secondary acquisitions and investments in other VC  funds. This is what Congresswoman Wagner was referring to, but that  option right now is constrained by provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act of  2010 that limit venture capital funds' ability to invest in these so- called fund of funds to only 20 percent of their commitments.

That rule was very well-intentioned when passed, and the intent was  to ensure that VC firms remained focused on direct investments in  early-stage startups. However, it was crafted for a very different  financial market than we have today.

I would also note that that constraint is irrelevant to the larger,  more well-known VC funds who have the resources to shoulder the  compliance burdens associated with registering with the SEC as  registered investment advisers. They can already do this, but they are  the big ones. They are the ones based in San Francisco and New York.  That option isn't available for these emerging regional fund managers  located in the middle of the country. Many of those funds increasingly  depend on that fund-of-funds model.

What the DEAL Act does is just provides greater flexibility to those  smaller VC funds while still ensuring that investors are protected and  that fund managers continue to prioritize direct funding in small  businesses. It does this by revising the existing rules to raise the  cap from 20 percent in fund of funds up to 49 percent but still  requiring that the majority of their investments are directly in  portfolio companies.

In other words, the DEAL Act supports growth in the startup economy  and ensures that capital reaches the communities and innovators who  need it most.

I thank my fellow Midwesterner and friend, Congresswoman Wagner, for  her leadership on this. I am proud to lead this important legislation,  and I urge all my colleagues to support it.