Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act


Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, if I were to describe Jeffrey Epstein as a  nice family man who works in finance, you might question why I am  saying that. If someone says that something that is neither a coin nor  stable is a stablecoin, you might question why they are saying that  because they aren't stable.

Terra, which was a stablecoin, collapsed at 30 cents and wiped out  $40 billion in investor value. That was an algorithmic stablecoin. More  recently, as the ranking member has noted, USDC, a so-called  stablecoin, fell to 88 cents and only exists today because taxpayers  bailed them out.

These are some of the reasons why central bankers last week issued a  warning that stablecoins threaten global financial stability and need a  much more restrictive regime compared to traditional finance.

The GENIUS Act ignores all of those experts and, instead, ties  stablecoins into our financial system but without the safeguards that  are required by banks and investment companies.

As the ranking member noted, this allows Big Tech companies to issue  stablecoins and amass consumer data at the same time we are gutting the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which protects consumers.

It allows issuers to cherry-pick the lightest-touch regulator between  the Federal Government and any of the 50 States.

Rather than fixing the problems created when Silicon Valley Bank  collapsed, it makes them worse by saying that you can have uninsured  deposits. Yet, if there is a run on a future Silicon Valley Bank, the  stablecoin issuers have a superior claim over every single person in  this room who has a legitimate deposit in that bank.

My colleagues have said that this has a one-to-one requirement,  except that it is not audited. There is only an audit requirement for  companies over $50 billion in assets, which is only two stablecoins.  Donald Trump's stablecoin just has to say that they attest that there  was value in there on the 30th day of the month, and we don't have an  auditor. That isn't one-to-one certification.

Finally, the GENIUS Act is a missed opportunity to limit foreign  influence. We know that, recently, a convicted money launderer wrote  the code so that the United Arab Emirates could buy $2 billion of  Trump's stablecoin, which allowed President Trump to earn $30 million  on the transaction.

Now, this convicted felon--

Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, I should clarify that the convicted felon I  am referring to is the guy who ends up trading--

Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, the convicted felon I am referring to is the  guy who ran Binance and not the President, but he is seeking a  Presidential pardon.

Mr. Speaker, the GENIUS Act sets the stage for an exponential crisis  and allows the President to continue cheapening the office for his own  financial gain, and I urge a strong ``no.''