Mental Health in Aviation Act of 2025


Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the bipartisan Mental  Health in Aviation Act, which I introduced with my friend, Mr. Stauber,  from Minnesota.

I thank Congressman Stauber as well as Chairman Graves and Ranking  Member Larsen for all of their support and close collaboration on this  bill.

Today, pilots and air traffic controllers who seek mental health care  are unfairly penalized by a system that perpetuates a culture of  silence. Current regulations mandate that if they seek care, then they  are immediately grounded for a minimum of 6 months, and then they are  still faced with delays, confusion, and overbroad regulation in the  process of returning to work.

This often leaves the folks who are tasked with keeping our skies  safe with an absolutely terrible choice, Mr. Speaker: Get help but put  your career and your paycheck on hold, or keep your career on track and  just hope you will get better.

It doesn't make our skies safer, but it does lead to horrible and  avoidable tragedies.

It hit home for me when a Chicago family told me about their son who  was studying to become a pilot, and he took his own life. He knew that  he needed help, but he didn't want to be grounded. That young man would  still be here today but for these regulations that gave him fear when  he needed care.

Since working on this bill, I have heard too many nearly identical  stories from pilots, students studying to be pilots, and air traffic  controllers, their coworkers, and their families.

As many have mentioned, in December 2023, the FAA finally recognized  the need to reform those current policies and established a committee  to identify barriers to mental health care for aviators to present ways  for the FAA to address those challenges. Their recommendations included  limiting disclosure requirements for low-risk psychotherapy and  expanding the use of existing peer-support programs, but it didn't  mandate those changes, nor did it provide necessary implementation  resources.

This bill finishes that job by requiring the FAA to implement those  changes within 2 years, to regularly review and improve processes  related to mental health, and to ensure the FAA can successfully  implement and publicize those rules. This will  destigmatize mental health care to make our pilots healthier and our  skies safer.

I am proud that this bipartisan legislation is widely supported in  Congress and also by the aviation community, airlines, pilot unions,  and air traffic controllers.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it.