A Letter From Survivors of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695788/a-letter-from-survivors-of-jeffrey-epstein-and-ghislaine-maxwell


Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to read a letter from more  than 20 survivors of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell. I implore  my colleagues and all Americans to listen to their words.

Dear Members of the Republican Women's Caucus:

We write to you today with urgency, respect, and hope.       Strong American women are serving in the House of       Representatives, and survivors of Jeffrey Epstein and       Ghislaine Maxwell's abuse need you to stand with them.

It is difficult to articulate the appreciation that we have       for each member of the Democratic Women's Caucus who took the       time to meet with us on September 3, 2025. Because of the       intrepid leadership of Chairwoman Teresa Leger Fernandez and       the Congresswomen who gathered together to support us, we       left the Capitol with dignity and resolve. We are likewise       eternally grateful to Congresswomen Marjorie Taylor Greene,       Lauren Boebert, and Nancy Mace, as well as to Congressman       Thomas Massie and Ro Khanna, for taking bold steps to help us       in our quest for justice. While we are at a loss for how       supporting survivors or transparency could ever be seen as a       ``hostile act,'' what you are doing is not only right, it is       necessary. This is not a partisan issue. It is a human issue.

Jeffrey Epstein abused hundreds of women. The United States       Government itself held evidence that he had sexually abused       40 children. Some of us are those children. Any other       American man would have been imprisoned for life, yet Epstein       was not. Instead, he was shielded by a nonprosecution       agreement that blatantly violated the rights of children, and       he was set free to continue abusing women in this country for       another 9 years before his death.

Our government conspired with him and, in doing so, failed       to protect hundreds of girls who would never have been harmed       had our government simply done its job.

Those children are now grown women. We stand together in       pain and resilience, and we are asking for your help. We have       a right to feel safe in this country. We have a right to know       why a serial sexual predator was treated with more humanity       than we have ever experienced from our own government.

You now have the chance to be on the right side of history.       Unlike past administrations, you are uniquely positioned to       tell us that our voices matter and that we have finally been       heard. Some of us live in your districts. We look to you to       represent us. We deserve for you to represent us.

We implore you to stop protecting those who enabled       Epstein's crimes and instead stand firm in protecting the       women and children he harmed. Stand up against abuse of       power. Take action to end the silence and speculation       surrounding this criminal. There should be equal protection       under the laws in the United States of America. This is one       country, not two. The rich and powerful should answer for       their crimes the same way that everyone else does. And when       they don't, we deserve to know why.

Ghislaine Maxwell was tried by a jury of her peers for the       crimes that she committed, and she was convicted. That is how       the American justice system works. The idea of a pardon is       beyond the comprehension of the victims who mustered the       courage to testify against her and should be beyond the       comprehension of the American people. No one should live       above the law. Ghislaine Maxwell is certainly no exception.

You may be wondering how you can help us in this fight. At       least we hope that you are. As American women, please hear       our voices, for yourselves, for your daughters, for women,       and for the future of our country.

First, we ask that you vote in favor of the Epstein       transparency act and that you help us ensure with its passing       that the identities of survivors are protected and the       identities of the perpetrators or enablers are not. Remind us       that America is the country that we thought it was when we       were little girls, before we were let down repeatedly by our       own government.

Second, start with H.R. 9444 and rewrite the Crime Victims'       Rights Act, as codified in 18 United States Code section 3771       to protect future generations of Americans.

Third, extend the same opportunity that the Democratic       Women's Caucus did and invite us to meet with you so that we       can try to convince you that we matter. We will come back to       Washington. We will tell you why we matter. We will tell you       why this matters.

We are not a ``hoax.'' We are mothers, daughters, sisters,       friends, and wives. We are America. We have sought justice       for decades to no avail. We have been denied the basic rights       that should be afforded to every American citizen time and       time again. The fact that it took this long for anyone to       care about us is a true American tragedy. Please stand with       us, help us uncover the truth, and give us the respect and       justice that we deserve. We deserve to put this chapter       behind us. Americans deserve to move forward knowing that       they have rights in this country that will be enforced even       in the face of power; in fact, especially in the face of       power.

With hope and resolve.

Signed by more than 20 survivors of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine  Maxwell.