Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692067/capping-excessive-awarding-of-sblc-entrants-act-of-2025


Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss H.R. 2987, the  CEASE Act, which would place a statutory moratorium on the number of  Small Business Lending Company licenses that can be issued by the U.S.  Small Business Administration.

What does this bill do? It will cap the number of SBA 7(a) nonbank  lenders who can give loans to America's small businesses, a reasonable  endeavor that could have generated bipartisan support had there been  any effort by the majority to engage in a thoughtful discussion with  us.

Since there was no such engagement, this bill does nothing to protect  the hugely successful Community Advantage program. Community Advantage  Small Business Lending Companies provide loans to small businesses  located in underserved and rural communities, to new businesses, and to  veteran-owned small businesses.

For far too long, far too many people in our country have not been  able to access capital and participate in the American Dream of  starting a business, creating jobs, and growing our economy. The Small  Business Administration plays a critical role in providing capital to  our small businesses. The Community Advantage program has a  demonstrated track record of helping entrepreneurs who face higher  barriers to accessing capital grow and scale their businesses.

This is exactly what we should be doing: opening more doors for more  Americans to start a business, create jobs in their community, and  strengthen their local economy.

My question to my Republican colleagues is: Without providing  protections for Community Advantage Small Business Lending Companies in  the text of this bill, are you suggesting we eliminate this crucial  program? Why would you threaten to remove a way for veteran-owned small  businesses to access capital? What is your message to American  entrepreneurs looking to access that first loan that could help turn  their best ideas into a new small business?

Mr. Speaker, let's just take a step back here. Right now, small  businesses across the country are ringing the alarm bells saying that  the tariff wars are going to put them out of business in a matter of  weeks or months.

Just this past week, we heard from Minnesota's Small Business Person  of the Year, given the award by the Trump administration, who said she  has 6 weeks until she goes out of business.

These are successful small businesses, small businesses that were  thriving, growing, expanding until President Trump started this  completely unnecessary, completely chaotic trade war by setting  exorbitant tariffs as high as 145 percent, changing policies  haphazardly, at times literally by the hour. No one can run a business  with that level of uncertainty, and our small businesses are getting  hit the hardest.

They can't plan for the future. They don't have the luxury of time.  The threat is here right now. They certainly don't have the resources  to personally lobby the President like the massive tech companies who  got exemptions did. President Trump's so-called tariff policy is  literally killing our small businesses.

Mr. Speaker, Congress has the power to stop it. Article I of the  Constitution says Congress has the power to levy tariffs, but what is  the Republican majority doing?

They are ceding all their power to this President and completely  disregarding their constitutional duty and the outcries from small  business owners who are warning us they will have to close their doors  in a matter of weeks if this tariff war doesn't end.

Mr. Speaker, the three bills the Republicans are choosing to bring to  the floor this week have nothing to do with the existential threat that  these tariffs are posing to our Nation's small businesses. The lack of  courage to stand up for our Nation's small businesses, and to stand by  and watch their downfall, is shameful. We should be passing legislation  to end this tariff war and save our small businesses.