Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''; and Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688090/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-consumer-gas-fired-instantaneous-water-heaters-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-waste-emissions-charge-for-petroleum-and-natural-gas-systems-procedures-for-facilitating-compliance-including-netting-and-exemptions-and-providing-for-consideration-of-h-con-res-concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, today I rise on behalf of the nearly 80  million Americans across the country who get their health insurance  through Medicaid.

I rise as a physician who has cared for patients for more than 20  years, and I implore my colleagues to recognize that health insurance  is not just a throwaway line item that you can scratch out in a budget.  It is the difference between being able to receive the lifesaving  healthcare people need or not.

Medicaid is the single largest source of healthcare coverage in the  United States. Medicaid covers nearly half of all children, and it is  the largest insurer of kids with disabilities. Medicaid is a vital  source of prenatal and postpartum care for women, and it covers more  than 40 percent of births in our country.

The Republicans' dangerous proposal today is selling out the health  and wellness of kids, families, seniors in nursing homes, and people  with disabilities.

Why? To make room for tax breaks for millionaires? This is wrong. We  cannot stand for this.

We need our colleagues across the aisle to stand up for our children  and families.