Recognizing Chief Brian Tholen on His Career As A Law Enforcement Officer and Service to Minnesota


Ms. MORRISON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor Chief  Brian Tholen for his distinguished career in law enforcement and his  lifelong commitment to serving the people of Minnesota through  education, volunteerism, and public safety advocacy.

For over 25 years, Chief Tholen served with dedication and integrity  as a police officer for the City of Edina. He then continued his  service as Chief of Police for the South Lake Minnetonka Police  Department for three and a half years, leading with courage and  professionalism.

A graduate of the University of St. Thomas and the 275th class of the  FBI National Academy, Chief Tholen exemplified Minnesotan excellence  throughout his law enforcement career. His tenure included a decade in  the patrol division, where he served as a field training officer, a  defensive tactics instructor, and a member of the Southwest Metro SWAT  Team Consortium.

In the past 12 years, Chief Tholen has worked to train officers,  paramedics, firefighters, and civilians across the metro area in active  shooter response protocol. Through this work, he has emphasized the  importance of awareness, prevention, and survival, equipping  individuals and businesses with life-saving tools and strategies.

Chief Tholen's service-oriented mindset was shaped early in life.  Raised in a family-owned plumbing business, he learned the values of  hard work and responsibility by going on service calls with his father  as a teenager. He carried that ethic into every aspect of his public  service career.

Chief Tholen has retired to Shorewood with his wife of 23 years,  Lauren. He is an active member of the Excelsior Morning Rotary and  enjoys boating, hunting, traveling, and spending time outdoors with  Lauren and their Border Collie, Ike.

On behalf of myself and the Minnesotans who have benefited from his  decades of leadership and service, I offer my sincere gratitude to  Chief Brian Tholen--and I wish him many more good hikes with Lauren and  Ike.