Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services Relating to ``Patient Protection and Affordable Care


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698976/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-centers-for-medicare-medicaid-services-relating-to-patient-protection-and-affordable-care


Mr. WARNER.  293,  S.J. Res 84.

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise today because I think it is  painfully clear that we need to do something to address the growing  healthcare crisis in this country.

Let me be clear at the outset that when we talk about the CRA that  the clerk just reported, it is not directly related--it is not the tax  credit issue that has been the subject of an enormous amount of other  debate and, frankly, action in the House but a CRA that will be voted  on later today that will overturn a rule that the Trump administration  has put forward that will result in 1.8 million Americans being thrown  off their health insurance.

It is beyond the tax credit issue. It is beyond the Medicaid changes.  This is a rule that the administration set forward last year that adds  enormous amounts of regulatory burden for any American who chooses to  access the so-called ObamaCare Marketplace.

The truth is, this administration's attack on the Marketplace,  ObamaCare, the Affordable Care Act didn't start with this rule. As we  all know in this Chamber, this is just another step in a now close to  15-year crusade by many of my Republican colleagues to undermine the  ACA, which, at the end of the day, is just going to--as we have seen  already--is going to increase healthcare costs for everybody.

We know that at the end of last year, as the expiration of the ACA  enhanced premium tax credits approached, Democrats in Congress worked  hard to try to extend them. We put forward a strong, compromised  proposal to extend the credits and keep health insurance affordable for  the close to 24 million Americans who access their healthcare through  the Marketplace.

Unfortunately, time and again, Republicans voted against it, ensuring  that when the clock struck midnight on January 1, millions of Americans  were priced out of that coverage. Families across the country have now  been hit with premium increases of $800, $900, and even over $1,000 per  month.

Somebody in my State of Virginia--Kathleen, a mother of two and a  small business owner living in Newport News, saw her premium for her  family of four increase from 544 bucks a month to over $1,500 a month.  That is a yearly increase of about $11,500 a year--a pricetag that her  family just can't afford. She told me she came up to the Hill before  New Year's hit and that she hoped and prayed for a solution.

Frankly, I wish all of my Republican colleagues who helped block that  solution could have explained to her why blocking that solution, which  we offered as a straightforward extension of the ACA premium tax  credits--why they blocked that, because Kathleen and so many other  families desperately needed it.

I will have to say I have to give some rare congratulations to at  least 17 Members of the House, Republican Members of the House, which  had actually taken action recently to address this crisis. Seventeen  House Republicans finally said enough is enough and voted with  Democrats in the House to extend the credits, which will again lower  the costs for millions.

I hope that we can get a similar type of compromise through in the  Senate. I know there are colleagues on both sides of the aisle working  hard on that issue right now.

While the credits have taken up most of the space around the debate,  what I rise today on--the CRA that will be voted on this afternoon-- will provide an even more immediate solution to at least take away  another barrier to healthcare accessibility and affordability.

I am asking my colleagues--and I will be joined by other colleagues  to talk about this over the next hour or so--I am asking my colleagues  to join me in disapproving a harmful rule that the Trump administration  finalized last year that was set to kick in at the end of 2025. As I  mentioned, that would take about 1.8 to 2 million people off their  healthcare because of the enormous administrative burdens that are put  in place by this administrative rule to try to get access to the  Marketplace.

This is at least a chance today--not at some future date--to come  together to do the bare minimum and address at least a small part of  the emergency straining our healthcare system.

Now, I will acknowledge that because this administrative burden is so  burdensome, the courts have paused its enactment, but at any moment,  that pause could be taken away.

So let's just use the CRA, which has been used by both sides of the  aisle repeatedly, to get rid of this additional burden because, simply  put, this harmful Trump rule makes it harder to enroll in a Marketplace  plan, harder to stay on a Marketplace plan, and harder and more  expensive for States to run a Marketplace.

The rule requires increased paperwork for families, reduces open and  special enrollment periods, and allows insurers to push more healthcare  costs on Americans by allowing plans to cover less care. That also adds  a ton more paperwork and burdens on the marketplaces all across the  country.

Again, according to the Trump administration's own document, these  added barriers and higher premiums will lead to that estimate of at  least 1.8 million people losing coverage if this rule--which is, again,  scheduled to go into effect but has only not gone into effect in 2026  because of a current pause by the courts.

But I think we ought to avoid this cliff and just act today as a  Senate and say: Let's not have this rule take effect.

I think most of us would agree that 2025 was not a great year for  healthcare in this country. Medicaid cuts, which are going to be  enormous, which, frankly, were not scheduled to kick in until after the  2026 elections, interestingly enough--although I can tell you we have  already seen rural healthcare clinics close in Virginia because of that  expectation--and my colleagues' refusal to extend the enhanced premium  tax credits are all weighing down on our healthcare system, and we are  seeing rural hospitals and rural healthcare centers really bear the  brunt of this.

The truth is, the Trump administration and congressional Republicans  have jammed through healthcare policies that, combined with the rule  and the tax premiums--minimum, looks like about 15 million Americans  will get kicked off their health insurance.

So let's go back. My Republican colleagues and the President won in  2024 because they said they are going to lower costs. We can actually  take action on lowering costs today. So let's join together, use the  CRA tool, and end this policy. All you have to do is vote for the  Congressional Review Act resolution making sure the number--not my  number; the Trump administration's number--the 1.8 million Americans  will actually get to keep their healthcare. All you have to do is vote  for this CRA resolution so that folks don't have to deal with  enormously burdensome paperwork and the higher costs that result.

Now, I think we can get this done. We have seen my Republican  colleagues stand up to the President on the Epstein files, on war  powers, and just in the last day or so, the attack on  the independence of the Federal Reserve. Let's have that pushback  extend now to healthcare costs. Let's help millions keep their  healthcare today and then work together toward a long-term, sustainable  plan to keep healthcare costs stable for the next decade.

Senator Klobuchar does such  a great job on so many issues. Senator Wyden, the leader on the Finance  Committee--they and others will come today to speak on this issue as  well.

I hope my colleagues are listening, and I hope they will actually  acknowledge that we have to bring healthcare costs down today. This  isn't a full solution, but at least it is an action that we can take  today.