Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700785/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, let me, first of all, thank my colleague  and friend the Senator from New Jersey who, I think, has brought us a  fresh voice, has incredible energy, and is somebody who has a history  of working extraordinarily well on national security issues.

I agree with virtually everything he just said in that this is a bit  of a distraction. I think part of the reason it is a distraction is  that, at the end of the day, this President has frankly refused to  acknowledge that the American people's will in 2020 was not to rehire  him. He cannot accept the legitimate outcome of the 2020 election.  Despite officials from his own administration calling the 2020 election  the most secure in American history, the President continues to promote  unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud, and that is after investigations  from multiple courts and the States' attorneys general and election  officials from both parties strongly declaring that there was no  evidence to support allegations of substantial fraud. Simply put, the  2020 election was certified, litigated, and affirmed.

Tomorrow, we are going to hear from some of the intelligence  officials as our committee takes on the worldwide threat assessment  where, unfortunately, senior intelligence officials seem to be still  focusing on relitigating the 2020 election rather than making us safe  for 2026 and 2028 because the truth is, after all of these years, the  President and his allies haven't been able to find any evidence of  legitimate voter fraud in past elections. As a matter of fact, there  have been studies ad nauseam that show millions and hundreds of  millions of votes and that the number of people who were undocumented  and voted by mistake were in the single digits.

Now, they are looking forward to the effort that is on the floor  right now toward suppressing and wrongfully influencing future  elections through this so-called SAVE America Act.

Again, I know the Presiding Officer and my friend from Wisconsin and  others are going to say I am going to go over the top, so let me just  use the President's own words. The Presiding Officer comes from Utah,  which has a proud history of States' rights and local control, but in  the President's own words, he wants Republicans to ``take over''  election administration, going so far as to say Republicans ought to  nationalize the voting. If there were ever an ``Alice in Wonderland up  is down and down is up,'' that is what is happening.

Again, I don't know if this comment led to her firing, but before he  fired her, the President's DHS Secretary Kristi Noem pushed for the  passage of the SAVE America Act while stating that her goal was to have  the right people voting so we can elect the right leaders. I mean, this  sounds like it comes out of some dystopian novel or 1930s advocacy. I  just don't get it. We all know that the strength of our democracy  depends on voter participation and access to the ballot box. I have  been doing this, I guess, long enough that I remember when things like  ``motor voter'' and ``let's make it easier to register'' were all  bipartisan.

Unfortunately, contrary to the name the SAVE America Act, this  legislation undermines the very foundations that it claims to protect.  This bill would impose sweeping requirements that would make it  extremely difficult for eligible voters to participate in our  democracy. New voters, married women, and servicemembers would face  additional hurdles when registering to vote. That is because, under the  SAVE America Act, Americans who have voted for years and have had no  question about their citizenship would have to go back and provide  documentary proof of citizenship to register to vote in Federal  elections.

Let me say, at the front end, that I support voter ID. We have voter  ID in Virginia. I don't think you should be able to vote without  showing a legitimate ID, but under this bill, that so-called  reasonable policy would put in place requirements that are so stringent  that it would mean if you don't have access to the right documentation,  like a passport, you wouldn't be able to vote for the President of the  United States.

The truth is, according to the U.S. State Department, only half of  all Americans possess a passport. That means, if this bill passes, half  of all American citizens would not be able to provide one of the  primary acceptable forms of documentation that would be required to  vote under the SAVE Act.

Additionally, under this bill, States would be barred from accepting  online and mail-in voter registrations unless the applicant also  presented proof of citizenship in person. So this is somebody who made  the choice to change their name who is now 85 years old and who has to  go back and find a birth certificate or get a passport and has to show  up in person to kind of get registered again, even though she has been  voting for the last 50 years with no question about her citizenship.

This effectively, frankly, guts the online and mail-in voter  registration processes that are available across many States, which  creates, I think, an unnecessary burden for all voters, particularly  rural voters, senior citizens, and individuals with disabilities  disproportionately.

I see my friend from California here. It has been States in the West,  whether it is Oregon or California or Utah, that have used these tools  to get more people involved. In fact, these efforts don't make our  elections more secure. All this does is disenfranchise millions of  eligible voters.

My view is that the goal of the SAVE Act is more about cutting out  voters and suppressing the vote than it is about saving anything going  forward. We are having this debate, and we are going to probably go  through lots of procedural antics that most folks won't understand. I  just wish that my Republican colleagues would come back to what I think  we should be spending all of our time on. If we are going to spend all  night, let's focus on funding the TSA, FEMA, CISA, and the Coast Guard.

Frankly, I believe we need to fund all of the folks at the Customs  and Border Patrol who aren't assigned to interior immigration  enforcement. So, last week, Senator Murray and Senate Democrats  attempted to say: Hey, we have got to debate about ICE, and we have got  to debate about some of the CBP people who are doing domestic  enforcement. If we can't come to an agreement there, let's fight over  that, but let's not make sure that we hold all of these other folks  hostage.

Unfortunately, my Republican colleagues blocked five separate bills  that were offered by Senate Democrats that would have fully funded all  of the components of DHS. I think about our  hard-working TSA officers who, thank goodness, got a paycheck on March  12--a partial paycheck--but now, they are going unpaid.

The amazing thing is that this is kind of a crisis that doesn't need  to be a crisis. The fact is, last July, my Republican colleagues voted  to give the Department of Homeland Security a slush fund worth nearly  $170 billion. Of that funding, $75 billion was a blank check to ICE,  providing the Agency with a budget larger than of most global  militaries. I actually think the ICE budget is now bigger than the  French military's, and I know it is bigger than the FBI's budget. You  know, the truth is that $75 billion could actually fund ICE for the  next 7 years without any additional appropriations.

I am here today because I and my Democratic colleagues are fighting  to ensure that all the funding that is used for immigration enforcement  will no longer be used in inappropriate ways. I think even most of my  Republican colleagues have acknowledged that what happened in  Minneapolis kind of went off the rails in that we were seeing ICE  agents literally abuse and brutalize Americans and disrespect basic  human dignity.

The unfortunate thing is, under this administration, ICE has been  turned frankly into kind of a secret police that I believe has waged  enormous violence against Americans. I know in my State, that of the  daily quota of people they have to pick up, 80 to 85 percent have never  violated any other law other than coming into the country and most of  them are going through an amnesty process that was set up. You know, we  have seen the images of ICE ripping apart families and arresting moms  as they drop off kids to daycare. As a matter of fact, I know that I  tried to do some oversight, which is part of my job, and it took a lot  of hoops to get through to even do that oversight.

I believe, because of these actions, all of our citizens are less  safe. So we have got to make meaningful reforms to ICE which I don't  think are outrageous, like requiring body cameras, making sure that  immigration enforcement officers show their faces and identify  themselves, and making sure there is proper training and upholding  traditional use-of-force standards. These are the same requirements  that my local law enforcement has to deal with every day and has had to  for years. These aren't new. These are commonsense, basic  accountability measures that, as I said, our State and local police  abide by because that is how you keep communities safe.

Unfortunately, so far, the White House doesn't seem to see it that  way. They continue to drag their feet on negotiations at the expense,  frankly, of the TSA, FEMA, the Coast Guard, and Customs and Border  Patrol--not the folks doing interior enforcement--who are not getting  paid. That doesn't make any sense.

As a matter of fact, we have even seen tools where, in the last  shutdown, the administration didn't decide to cut off Global Entry or  TSA PreCheck because those are actually funded by separate fees, but  suddenly, they decided to amp up the political pressure and close off  those programs. Now, thank goodness, because of pressure from the  public, the Trump administration has reversed course and restarted the  Global Entry program, but it should have never been suspended in the  first place. We have got to get these folks paid. Take yes for an  answer. Take yes for an answer.

As I pointed out earlier, with $75 billion for ICE, it is not going  to stop. We have got to get the reforms in place. So let's keep the  negotiations going. We ought to get them done. I am going to make sure  that the TSA agents at Dulles, at National, and at airports across my  Commonwealth get their paychecks.

As a State on the ocean, I want to make sure that the Coast Guard  gets their paychecks. We have been hit hard by Hurricane Helene, and I  want to make sure FEMA gets funded. And CISA--the Cybersecurity Agency,  which is one of the things that guards against foreign malign  influence--has been decimated by this administration. As we go into an  election season where I extraordinarily fear foreign interference,  close to 50 percent of the personnel have been cut or eliminated.

So we can do better. We must do better.

We can debate the SAVE Act, which I think is, again, about voter  disenfranchisement, not voter safety or integrity, but I do think,  while we debate this, why not go ahead and take yes for an answer and  fund all of the other components of DHS so those folks who help protect  us day in and day out get their paychecks?

Let's reopen these critical Agencies. Let's acknowledge that ICE has  a $75 billion slush fund that we could complain about as Democrats-- Democrats do--but it is the law of the land. They have the resources.  In the meantime, why hold up the pay of these Americans who are doing  so many things to keep us safe? I think those folks deserve better. I  think we all deserve better.

I guess I am a little old-fashioned. I actually think, back to the  subject at hand, you know, our elections are better if more people  participate. I am welcome to having more folks participate--citizens  participate. Citizens participate. Unfortunately, this SAVE Act cuts  back on a whole lot of Americans that will be disenfranchised simply  because, oh my gosh, they did the radical thing of changing their name  when they got married; or, oh my gosh, they were willing to join our  military; or, oh my gosh, they are aged and they don't want to spend  150 bucks to get a passport.

Our country deserves better.