Sudan


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701780/sudan


Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I come before you today to mark the third  anniversary and, unfortunately, the start of the fourth year of  conflict of the war in Sudan.

Sudan is home to the largest humanitarian and displacement crisis in  the whole world. This conflict and the resulting humanitarian crisis  are largely being ignored by people across the world, including in our  country, who are best positioned to make a difference.

The war in Sudan started because a few years back, one of the most  brutal dictators of the 20th century was actually overthrown by civil  society and young people in Sudan looking for a better country. It was  an effort to move toward a democracy, but that move was suddenly halted  by two generals, each of a separate warring party and, unfortunately,  fueled by external actors.

The violence in Sudan has caused upwards of 15 million people to flee  their homes--a quarter of the population--and has left literally half  of the country's 50 million people on the brink of starvation and acute  hunger. Yet, still now 3 years in--and I understand how they feel--the  Sudanese people feel basically forgotten by the world.

Now, I have come to the floor previously to speak out on this issue,  and I rise again today because this conflict cannot continue to be  ignored. America must lead, not back away, in times like these when  suffering and terror are at their peak.

At the heart of this crisis is the ongoing violence between the  Sudanese Armed Forces--remnants of the previous government--called the  SAF, and the Rapid Support Forces--another militia group--both fighting  against each other for control of the country. It is estimated that the  fighting and resulting food crisis may have killed more than 100,000  Sudanese and left millions more on the verge of starvation.

The remarkable thing is that there are no good guys here. Both the  SAF and the RSF have inflicted horrible atrocities on the people of  Sudan. The U.S. Government has accused members of both SAF and the RSF  of war crimes, while in January of last year, the State Department  issued a determination that genocide had literally been committed by  the RSF and its allied militias in the Darfur region of Sudan.

The World Food Programme, which we are huge supporters of, has  declared a famine in parts of southern and western Sudan, and there is  a high risk of this famine condition spreading across the balance of  the country.

Sudan's economy has collapsed. Unemployment now is close to 50  percent of the whole population. A generation of children risk being  denied education because of how dangerous it is to even go to school.

Conditions, unfortunately, may actually get worse. We have seen the  war in Iran dramatically disrupt fuel and fertilizer shipments-- particularly devastating as Sudan enters what should be its planting  season in coming months. Globally, the United Nations has warned that  the impacts stemming from these fuel, fertilizer, and supply chain  disruptions would place more than, again, 45 million people in Sudan at  risk of acute hunger.

Let's be clear. This is a catastrophe. In fact, more people die every  day in Sudan than Gaza and Ukraine combined.

It is not a new issue. I pushed the Biden administration repeatedly.  But the U.S. response in addressing the scale of suffering that we see  remains, unfortunately, woefully inadequate.

First and foremost, the Sudanese people need humanitarian aid. They  need aid workers, humanitarian organizations. And the local Sudanese  volunteers, many who put their lives at risk on a daily basis, need the  access to respond.

Unfortunately, the current administration dismantled USAID and the  broader U.S. foreign assistance infrastructure, so there is no clear  and coordinated diplomatic strategy for addressing this conflict, for  rallying the international community, for coordinating with local  responders and organizations on the ground.

Now, because of the war with Iran, foreign policy choices risk  dramatically worsened conditions. When we dismantled USAID and the  funding of the administration, we literally had a situation where  American food and medicine that we had paid for were sitting on ships  in the port of Sudan, and the workers that were literally paid a dollar  or two a day to take that food and distribute it, because we shut down  USAID, were left without any distribution network. So in some cases,  this  extraordinarily valuable food and medicine literally rotted on the  ships.

Due to the absence of strong U.S. leadership in addressing this  conflict and the fact that the international bodies have not been  coordinated, there has been an opening here for outside influence.  Foreign entities and governments are backing their surrogates on each  side in a way that is, again, chilling.

In my State, in Virginia, we have a large Sudanese diaspora. Since  the conflict began, I have sat with and heard from many members of that  community, and it is clear what must be done.

I still remember a young family. Literally, they were in their late  twenties. They had to rush and leave the country because the civil war  was breaking out. They left behind at that point, I think, their 6- month-old daughter. Three years later, their aging parents are not  really able to take care of that daughter, who is now 3\1/2\ years old.  The parents have not seen the daughter in 3 years, and they have no  idea what will happen to her on a going-forward basis.

The Sudanese people did not ask for this war. As I mentioned at the  outset, the outbreak of this violence and this civil war between these  warring generals, warring groups trying to divide the spoils of the  country, came literally 4 years after pro-democracy protests swept  parts of Sudan in 2019.

In 2019, literally the young people of Sudan overthrew al-Bashir, the  previous dictator who had been around for close to 40 years. What  happened was there were literally hundreds of civic, professional, and  political organizations that came together at that moment in the  revolution--this was a people's revolution--and they thought that after  the long term of this dictator, they might finally have civil liberties  and an actual democracy.

I believe very strongly that the Sudanese people deserve an  opportunity to live in peace and to have a responsive, democratically  elected government that incorporates civil society, women, and youth.  Instead, we have some of our allies in the region--Saudi Arabia backing  one side and the Emirates backing another. Because of this divide, you  now have other countries, like Russia and Iran, coming in to try to  make more mischief and try to bring about more hardships.

Again, I urge all of us on both sides of the aisle to do more about  this crisis in Sudan. I urge the administration to go forward and  choose an envoy in the way the Biden administration had chosen former  Congressman Tom Perriello. Please choose an envoy that can represent  the President. This is a conflict by which the President of the United  States, with the enormous influence he has with countries in the gulf,  could use that power to, frankly, cut off the aid that funds this civil  war tomorrow.

As we enter the fourth year of this conflict, please, regardless of  partisan affiliation, we all ought to urge President Trump to make sure  this conflict comes to an end so that, at the end of the day, the  Sudanese people, whether they are in Sudan or are part of the diaspora  around the world, can actually live in peace, have a government that  reflects their needs, have a country that is blessed with lots of  natural resources, and can actually enjoy the potential prosperity that  was promised--that held out that hope--back in 2019 when young people  overthrew the prior dictatorship. We should no longer allow this crisis  to go unheard or unrecognized. Part of the problem is that,  unfortunately, the country has barred a lot of the international press.

I urge any of my colleagues, as there are Sudanese diasporas in every  State in our country, to meet with those communities, to hear their  stories, to hear their struggles.

You know, again, there are no good guys in this battle between these  warring factions. American leadership could bring this war to an end.  It would go a great deal toward restoring people's trust around the  world of the value of strong, moral American leadership.