Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''


Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Huffman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, welcome to California water wars. A famous quote  attributed to Mark Twain is:

In California, whiskey is for drinking, and water is for       fighting.

Welcome to the debate. This is much more than just the delta smelt.  It is interesting to see my two colleagues and friends from parallel  universes--I am from a southern parallel universe--debate this because,  sometime ago when Mr. LaMalfa and I were in the California Legislature,  we thought we had put a lot of this past us when we negotiated in good  faith the building of those two reservoirs.

Part of it was to finally require the ag industry to get permits  because they were depleting the aquifer so much that the water  contractors were complaining. They were water contractors who  historically have made a lot of money without providing much value.

I say that in the context of this is an important discussion for the  environment appropriately for this committee, the chairman and the  ranking member, but it is a bigger issue.

It is an issue about fairness, about subsidies. Yes, the agriculture  industry is important, as the chairman pointed out, in California, but  we have given them a lot of support over the decades, including  subsidies from the Federal Government. When we are looking at fiscal  management, we should look at this resource in a larger sense, in my  view, as somebody who has represented the delta for decades.

The San Francisco Bay-Delta Estuary, which I am proud to represent a  significant part of, provides economic benefits to the entire State of  California and, as the chairman said, to larger areas of the West Coast  and the country in many ways. It provides clean water, recreation, and  all of these benefits to a very large area.

The longfin smelt, one of the several native fish populations within  the delta, is an important indicator species for the health of this  vital body of water and our economy. It serves as kind of a red herring  to help alert to habitat degradation across the delta from poor water  quality or diversion of too much water.

Unfortunately, the species population, as the ranking member has  pointed out, has declined more than 99 percent from 1980s levels,  putting us at risk of losing an important way we analyze the delta in a  drought-prone region.

The San Francisco Bay-Delta population of the longfin smelt was  listed as an endangered species under the Endangered Species Act after  thorough scientific review, as has been mentioned, and a public comment  process. This Congressional Review Act resolution casts aside the data  for no apparent reason. Decisions on whether to list a species as  endangered should be based on science as Congress intended under the  Endangered Species Act, not on politics.

While I agree with my good friend from California that ensuring  reliable water supply and storage is essential to northern California,  for both of my friends from northern California, disregarding experts  is the wrong way to go about the analysis, obviously.

This debate on the whole water supply and storage, as articulated by  the ranking member, is essential to the West Coast. Disregarding these  experts and scientists and the proper process for endangered species  listing is not the way to do it. Protecting endangered species and  providing a stable water supply are not mutually exclusive. They can be  done in a way where both delta communities and delta species, and,  indeed, the entire West Coast and the country, prosper from protecting  this endangered species.