Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the National Park Service Relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy- Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low NoX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; and for Other Purposes


Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this rule and the resolutions it  advances. Texas is allowed to do what it would like to do. California  does not mandate Texas' decisionmaking. We want to make our own  decisions. Under the U.S. Clean Air Act, signed by President Richard  Nixon, we did that, and we have been leaders since he signed it.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to specifically three Congressional  Review Act resolutions that are in this rule that illegally take aim at  California's legal ability to implement more stringent emission  standards under waiver from the Clean Air Act.

In the last 2 months, the Senate Parliamentarian and the nonpartisan  Government Accountability Office affirmed that California's Clean Air  Act waiver is not subject to the Congressional Review Act. This week's  attempt to advance these CRAs anyway is blatantly illegal.

On top of that, these CRAs are another unfounded attempt to limit  States from having the choice to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and  improve air quality and their public health. It doesn't mandate any  other States to do that. States can choose to join California under the  Clean Air Act.

I proudly served on the California Air Resources Board under three  Governors, including two Republicans and one Democrat, and I have seen  firsthand the benefits of curbing emissions, both for the economy and  public health. There is a reason why California is the fourth largest  economy in the world and has three times the amount of patents than any  other State, that State being Texas.

Republican Governor Ronald Reagan signed into law the creation of the  California State Air Resources Board and Republican President Richard  Nixon signed into law the California Clean Air Act. This was not a  partisan issue then and it should not be now. It is about public health  and the economy.

These waivers are an essential tool to give California and other  States the choice to prioritize both the health and well-being of their  residents and the environment. Modeling has shown that by 2040, all  three rules would provide an estimated $13 billion in health benefits.