Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act


Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, I will say to my friend from Kentucky  that it has been a long time since you have been to the Bay Area, so I  will take you up on your offer.

One of the reasons I wanted to come down and speak to this is because  I represent an area in the Bay Area that has five refineries in it.  They have been valuable tax providers and employers for many years. One  of them is about to close and another one is in the process of closing.  Two others have spent billions of dollars to work on transitional  fuels, to put investment into those refineries to produce biofuels that  are part of the transition to cleaner, safer, more economical energy  sources. The last one, Chevron, is doing both.

I must say I am reminded, as I sit here, to the same arguments 30  years ago having been involved at the local level in California about  secondhand smoke and tobacco when the tobacco industry was insisting  that the Tobacco Institute do studies about the cost to smokers by  passing secondhand smoke ordinances that figured out the full cost to  consumers for people who didn't smoke.

As a former restaurant owner, who didn't allow people to smoke, it  just reminds me of the same thing. I believe in research because I have  worked with a refinery and oil companies for many years. I was one of  those regulators. I represented the Bay Area on the California Air  Resources Board for 10 years. I was appointed by two Republicans, by  the way, and one Democrat.

What we have done is, we are transitioning. Twenty-five percent of  the cars in northern California last  year were EVs. They were alternative fuels. We knew this was coming. We  have tried to work and invest in the refinery community on how we  transition for the local government, who required those taxes, and for  the employers-employees who need those jobs.

Let's do research on how we transition and give States the ability to  transition, if they choose, and local governments to transition. While  I value the research, let's be honest about having more research that  is more objective and consider the full cost to changing our energy.

Almost 50 million Americans live within a mile of a refinery or a  heavy processing plant. Their public health costs are  disproportionately affected by what we know from traditional  pollutants, particulate matter, and smog. Then when you add carbon into  it, the economic model changes completely.

Mr. Speaker, I suggest to Mr. Guthrie, before he comes out to the Bay  Area, we have a collegial conversation and we can go to those  refineries. I would particularly like to take him to the ones that have  invested on the transition because we know we need a transition for  those of us who want to go to as near-zero emissions as possible, and  we are succeeding.

I will remind my colleagues, too, across the aisle that the Chinese  are our global competition. The Chinese auto manufacturing industry is  about to become the largest auto manufacturer in the world. They are  all EVs.

They are moving to this. While we try to protect traditional energy  sources, let's be smart about the transition economically for American  consumers and taxpayers.

I don't disagree with looking at capacity, but let's do it in a  broader and more objective way that tells the full story as truthfully  as possible, so we as policymakers can be more thoughtful about the  short-term impacts of our policy decisions, as well as in the midterm  and long term.