Trump's Labor Agenda: Unsafe and Underpaid


Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, first, I thank the gentlewoman from New  Jersey for having this session, for bringing us together to highlight  how the Trump administration is undermining hard-won protections for  workers. I really appreciate the comments and sort of the introduction  to my comments, a community that I have been close to and worked for  diligently for a long time.

This used to be a bipartisan issue. This is an opportunity to discuss  a group of workers who are often overlooked but who are also being very  much hurt by the deregulatory agenda of this administration, workers  with disabilities.

In December, the previous administration, under President Biden's  leadership and the Department of Labor, released a proposed rule that  would phase out, as quickly as possible, subminimum wage certificates  which allow employers to legally pay workers with disabilities below  the Federal minimum wage. This was long, long overdue.

About 38,500 disabled workers earned a subminimum wage in 2024  because of these certificates. Those 38,000 people deserve better, much  better.

In taking action, the Biden Department of Labor spoke for those  workers and pushed for them to have a livable, honorable wage. The  Department noted that opportunities, legal protections, and support for  disabled workers have increased since 1989 when the regulation was last  updated.

However, in July, the Trump Department of Labor decided to undo that  long, long overdue progress that was enacted by the Biden  administration and House and Senate Democrats and instead continued  issuing subminimum wage certificates.

Reminder to people around the country and Californians: The Federal  minimum wage is $7.25. They were being paid below that.

In doing so, this administration is turning back the clock on  disability rights. Multiple States, including the State I live in and  represent, California, have already prohibited subminimum wages for  workers with disabilities. Good for them. These subminimum wage laws  federally have been used to justify paying people just a few cents per  hour for work.

The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and the National Council on  Disabilities have called for an end to the practice by paying disabled  workers less and paying them what they deserve, at least a minimum  adjustment.

While disabled individuals continue to face challenges in achieving  equal opportunity and treatment, we have made great strides in our  understanding of disability and workplace accommodations.

Paying these American workers less can no longer be justified by any  standard, yet this administration insists on doing it.

Rather than allow employers to continue underpaying disabled workers,  this administration must and should reverse course and respect the  dignity and contributions of these workers.

Again, I thank Representative McIver for coming here and bringing  this to the attention of the American public.