-9999


Mr. KIM. Mr. President, I rise today as we debate funding for the  Department of Homeland Security. It is a debate that 100 Americans  allowed into this Chamber will have a chance to do, but that really is  being had by millions of Americans across the country in their living  rooms and their group chats, in the comments on social media. There are  a lot of things that we debate here that fly under the radar that,  maybe, impact a lot of people but are not on their minds. This is on  everyone's mind. Whether we write another check to fund the Department  of Homeland Security isn't just front page news--it is the thing that  people who haven't picked up a newspaper in years are talking about.

Why is that?

It is because people can feel that something is wrong in this  country, and they know it has to be stopped.

People can watch the videos of the murders of Renee Good and Alex  Pretti at the hands of Federal agents and see that something is wrong  and that it isn't over. They can watch these videos of masked men who  are roaming through neighborhoods or are physically assaulting people  who are peacefully protesting and see that something is wrong. They are  absolutely right in that feeling. How can you watch any of that and not  see that it is wrong?

I hear from people whom I know--some friends of mine--who are telling  me that they are now carrying their passports around with them because  they are afraid of getting stopped and being targeted by Federal  agents. I have heard from constituents who are anxious, who don't feel  safe leaving their houses, who are afraid of door knocks at their  houses, and are just afraid that this moment of fear will never end.

The tragic irony of this is that we are nearly 25 years in from the  establishment of the Department of Homeland Security--25 years from  another moment when people felt an incredible level of anxiety and  unease. I was in college when 9/11 happened. It was a moment that led  me toward public service. It was a crisis that brought me into a career  in national security, working to keep our country safe. One of the  things I have learned is that safety isn't our ability to project force  or the tools we have at our disposal. Those things can make us safe,  but if they are used improperly, they can make us less safe and less  secure. And that is exactly what we are seeing from this  administration. It is what Donald Trump, Stephen Miller, Tom Homan, and  Kristi Noem are doing every day. They are using the tools that were  meant to keep us safe and are distorting them to grow their own power,  to fuel their own corruption.

What we are debating here today is whether we should continue to fund  their efforts to use these tools against the American people and for  their own twisted agenda. And, to that, there is a simple answer: We  must say and vote no. We need to vote no on funding the DHS as this  bill currently stands because it is not going to make us more safe and  secure.

Everyone in America who has been carrying this feeling around with  them for the past few days and weeks knows that. They know that they  have been lied to by this administration. They know that the masked men  who are flooding into our communities are not accountable to them. They  know people like Stephen Miller, whom I have often called and said that  he is the most dangerous person in our country, are not accountable to  them. The American people are tired of it, and they are tired of the  lies. They see right through them. They are tired of feeling like they  have no say in this horrible feeling of insecurity and uncertainty.

How is it that, in the richest, most powerful country in the world,  we have this much unpredictability and this much anxiety that hangs  over us? But that can end today; that can end right here because, even  though the millions and millions of people who are struggling to make  sense of this moment aren't able to get into this Chamber and have a  vote, there are 100 of us who do and who represent all of the other  Americans in this Nation.

There are things that this administration can do today to restore  that sense of safety and security. For instance, they can pull ICE and  CBP agents out of their operations in Minnesota and in Maine and  deescalate the fear that American communities are facing. The  provocations are dangerous right now and the concern of powder kegs of  what is going to happen next. It is not that we see this in the  rearview mirror with the murder and the killing of Alex Pretti and  Renee Good. People are wondering: Is this just the beginning? Is this  going to continue and for how long? Is it going to get worse? That is  the fear that people are feeling, which is something that this  administration can immediately bring down if they pull these agents  out.

This administration can also allow and clearly articulate the need  for independent investigations into the murders of Renee Good and Alex  Pretti--actually, in terms of all 12 of the shootings that DHS agents  since September of last year have conducted. That deserves the same  level of transparency and accountability. The reason we need this is  that there is no trust right now. There is no trust right now from the  American people in having DHS or this administration as a whole  investigate themselves. It is antithetical to our understanding of  transparency and accountability if that is the case. So we demand true  independent investigations.

This administration can also fire their leaders who have clearly zero  credibility--zero credibility--with the American people right now-- Stephen Miller, Tom Homan, Secretary Noem, and others--who have  purposely weaponized our government for their own political agendas.  The American people demand accountability. Forward movement as a nation  in these troubled times cannot happen while having these administrative  officials still in power, still in their jobs.

There are many other things we need to think through, but these are  three things that can happen right now by this administration to show  that we can try to turn a corner on this incredibly chaotic and  dangerous moment for our country.

But even if that all happens, we owe it to the American people to  take a stand, we owe it to them to give them the security they deserve,  and we owe it to them to vote no on this appropriations bill.