Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. KIM. Mr. President, I rise today with such deep concern about the  state  of our democracy. Why have we let the scourge of money in our politics  get this bad? Why have we ignored the vast majority of Americans who  want us to get it under control? Why have we ceded our democracy to the  highest bidder? I am not alone in feeling exasperated and feeling  frustrated and being angry.

As we look back at 16 years, in the wake of the Citizens United  decision, we should be honest with ourselves: Our politics were never  truly fair. Voters were marginalized or excluded because of the color  of their skin. Machines and bosses took advantage of everyday people.  The powerful thought they could decide for the rest of us.

But we made progress. We took steps forward. So much of it was  reversed with one swoop of Citizens United. Now we are awash in money  and influence, living through politics where the new bosses hide behind  a Supreme Court decision that allows them to pump unlimited money into  elections without the risk of exposure or accountability. It feels  overwhelming. But to understand how bad the amount of money in politics  has gotten, you just have to look at the numbers.

According to OpenSecrets, during the 2008 election cycle, outside  spending totaled about $574 million. Two years later, the Citizens  United decision came down. Just 2 years after that, during the next  Presidential election cycle, outside spending topped off at nearly $1.3  billion. And just 2 years ago, in 2024, it came close to $4.5 billion.  Those numbers are disgusting. The American people are sick and tired of  this, being bombarded with ads.

But it is not just about that. It is worse. The American people know  that they are being purposely manipulated, fed lies. The amount of  money--untraced, unaccountable, undemocratic money--is beyond  comprehension.

To me, what is even more unbelievable is that it is insanely  unpopular. Last year, the group Issue One conducted a poll on the 15th  anniversary of the Citizens United decision. Nearly 80 percent said  that unchecked spending gave rise to corruption. More than 75 percent  said that the amount of money in politics was causing them to lose  faith in democracy itself, while 77 percent said that, when we tackle  Big Money in our politics, we make our democracy stronger. These  numbers are across the political spectrum, and these numbers are borne  out in survey after survey. Pew, in 2023, showed that nearly three- quarters of all Americans just want us to put limits on what can be  spent.

We live in a time when there is the greatest amount of distrust in  our government in modern American history. Now, I decided to run for  office nearly a decade ago because I saw what Citizens United did and  how the unchecked money in our politics was impacted. It was one of the  first things I talked about on the campaign trail. It was one of the  first things I pushed to introduce and spoke out about on the House  floor, and every year, we have carried the fight forward to reverse it.

It is important for us to remember not to feel helpless. I have often  said that the opposite of democracy is apathy. And too often, we say of  money in politics that this is a problem too big, that we can't solve;  or that the challenges are too entrenched and that we are not going to  be able to mobilize to fix it. I would just urge us, on this  anniversary of Citizens United, to keep in mind that it doesn't have to  be this way. We don't need to have a politics that is exasperating. We  can have one that is empowering. We can have one wherein the voices of  voters, not the endless bank accounts of the well-off and the well- connected, decide who represents us, and we can have a politics that  restores and grows trust rather than actively degrades.

This year is the 250th anniversary of the independence of our Nation.  We will be referencing that a lot in this Chamber because this is our  moment to free Americans from the influence of Big Money and to give  them back their voice in a democracy. Let us come together and get it  done.