Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696566/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-venezuela-that-have-not-been-authorized-by-congress


Mr. KIM. Mr. President, I rise today because since early September,  Donald Trump has ordered our military to engage in 16 strikes in the  Caribbean and in the eastern Pacific Ocean. Those strikes have killed  more than 65 people. Each one of those strikes--each person killed--was  done without the necessary legal basis or proper justification to this  Congress and the American people. Now, amid a buildup of forces in the  Caribbean, the administration is even reportedly considering action  against Venezuela itself.

We are not powerless against this lawlessness. That is why I rise  today in support of this resolution.

I rise because no President can unilaterally decide to use our  military to target or kill anyone that they simply claim to be a  threat.

I rise because if we do not hold this President accountable, we  abdicate our responsibility to be a voice for the American people and  instead embolden Trump to intensify this conflict.

I rise because these actions can quickly escalate into a conflict  that  could destabilize the Western Hemisphere and would put the lives of  American troops on the line.

I rise because as we see this President abuse the fundamental trust  and purpose of our powerful military both abroad and here at home in  our own cities, it is imperative that we push back against his  relentless lawlessness.

I have seen this from my own perspective. Whether that was working as  a State Department officer embedded with the military out in  Afghanistan or in my work at the Pentagon or in my work at the National  Security Council working to try to counter the terrorist group ISIS, I  saw the importance of our being able to do that but doing it in a way  that is in accordance with our own laws, to be able to both ensure  unity as a government but also to ensure that our servicemembers who  are fighting have the protections that they need, that they know that  the entirety of our government leadership is behind them and that our  country is with them. But that is not what we have right now.

The first step in fighting back against the lawlessness is  understanding the importance of the War Powers Resolution.

In this very Chamber 53 years ago, Senator Javits, in debating the  overturning of President Nixon's veto of the War Powers Resolution,  called the power to bring America into war the ``most awesome power in  the possession of any sovereignty.'' This resolution, he said, is about  ensuring the ``broad representation of the people in the Congress a  voice'' in exercising that power.

Senator Javits reminded this Chamber in the wake of the Vietnam war  that ``wars cannot be successfully fought except with the consent of  the people and with their support.''

What we have seen is a President in Donald Trump who thinks he can  use that awesome power against anyone he wants, anytime he wants. That  is not what the law says, and it is not what our Founders intended. Our  Founders intended for the people to have a say in when we commit our  sons and daughters to harm's way.

Even in an emergency, the law requires the President to seek  Congress's approval within a 60-day window to continue action. In this  circumstance, that window closed on Monday with zero indication that  this White House will stop taking military action even without having a  clear, legal basis to continue.

They first recognized the legal parameters of the War Powers  Resolution back in September, but now the administration is arguing  that they are not bound by this law. They have changed their tune and  are contradicting their own arguments in order to get around the law.

Of course, that won't stop them from pretending they have legal  grounds and fabricating justification where none exists. You will hear  them reference a list that designates certain cartels as ``terrorist  groups,'' but the authority to pursue groups on this list provides  absolutely no basis for the use of deadly force. Even worse, they still  have provided zero proof of how they know the individuals they have  targeted are linked to these cartels.

Trump is simply giving himself the power to designate and then to  kill enemies without there being a proper legal review or transparency  for the American people. That is not a power any President should have  alone, and we cannot allow this to proceed under our watch. After all,  it will not be Donald Trump who feels the consequences of further  conflict; it will be military families and the American people. That is  why decisions of war require deliberation, careful consideration, and a  clear legal basis. That is why they require congressional  authorization.

Through this resolution, we can uphold our responsibility to give  voice to Americans on the safety of our troops and the security of our  great Nation. We need to give that voice in this moment because this is  a crisis that can spiral into a conflict and from a conflict into an  all-out war.

While Trump tries to claim their targets are boats from Venezuela, in  reality, reports show strikes have hit boats from Colombia and  apparently those carrying citizens from other neighboring countries.

The administration has even admitted they don't know each individual  identity of those targeted. To still execute legal strikes is a  reckless and dangerous use of our powerful military.

As Trump considers expanding strikes to include land targets within  Venezuela--that is what we are talking about, within Venezuela--we move  further toward a war that would destabilize the entire region.

The American people don't want us to start a war within Venezuela,  and their voices should be heard, not ignored by this President.

There is a final reason why I rise in support of this resolution  because letting Donald Trump ignore the law abroad makes him think he  has a free pass to do it right here at home.

Donald Trump thinks if he can do this in the Caribbean, he can do it  on the streets of Chicago. He could use the military for his own  political retribution and consolidation of power in and outside our  borders.

After all, he said in his own words:

We're under invasion from within, no different than a       foreign enemy but more difficult in many ways because they       don't wear uniforms.

That is what the President said.

We cannot be complacent as he sends troops into our cities as a tool  of intimidation against his political enemies.

As I close here, I just want to say that we know the American people  are not blind to what Trump is doing. They know we are not powerless to  stop it. It is time to step up and show them we believe in the law;  that we believe in the voices of the American people; that we believe  in protecting our servicemembers; and that we won't stand idly by in  the face of lawlessness.

I hope all of my colleagues join me in passing this resolution. It is  our power. It is our duty. It is our responsibility.