Establishing the Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2025 and Setting Forth the Appropriate Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Years 2026 Through 2034


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689514/establishing-the-congressional-budget-for-the-united-states-government-for-fiscal-year-2025-and-setting-forth-the-appropriate-budgetary-levels-for-fiscal-years-2026-through-2034


Mr. KIM. Madam President, I rise today to tell the stories of the  nearly 2 million New Jerseyans who rely on Medicaid for their critical  care. I do this because their care is at risk. I do this because the  care of more than 72 million Americans across our country enrolled in  Medicaid is at risk. They are at risk because Republicans in the House  and the Senate have chosen to take away their care so that Elon Musk  and the very richest Americans can pay a little less in taxes.

That is the choice they have thrust upon the American people. It is a  choice that I don't believe they truly understand, so I would like to  take some of my time today on the floor to explain what happens when we  choose Elon Musk's well-being over the people we have sworn to serve.

To truly understand this, you need to understand that for tens of  millions of Americans, Medicaid is their lifeline from the womb to  their final years.

In New Jersey, nearly one out of three births is covered by Medicaid.  But even before that birth takes place, mothers receive prenatal care  covered by Medicaid. That means that for millions of parents across the  country, the first images they see of their child in those early  ultrasounds are because of Medicaid. It means that prenatal vitamins  that provide the folic acid necessary to ensure proper development are  because of Medicaid. It means that if there is a complication in a  pregnancy, those parents can focus on their health and the health of  their unborn child, not whether or not they will be able to cover the  costs of their care. That is because of Medicaid.

So when Republicans are saying we need to cut Medicaid, remember that  it is Elon Musk who wins and those expecting parents who lose.

When those children are born into the world, tens of millions rely on  Medicaid. Nationally, about 40 percent of children are enrolled in  Medicaid or CHIP. In New Jersey, one-third of children--one in three  kids in my State--are enrolled in Medicaid.

As a father of a 7-year-old and a 9-year-old, I can tell you that the  most important thing is knowing that your kids are healthy.

There are a lot of things that are outside of your control as a  parent. You can do everything right, but sometimes you just need help.  Kids get sick, and having that assurance that they can get the care  they need is an important thing.

When you take away Medicaid, you are not just taking away care, you  are taking away the peace of mind that parents deserve. You are taking  away the ability for parents to look their kids in the eye and say: It  is going to be OK.

I wanted to share with you two stories that have stuck with me. I  heard from Nicole, a mother from New Jersey who has a developmentally  disabled son, Jordan. Jordan is 24. His mother said that a Medicaid cut  would be ``catastrophic.'' She said that the care she receives from  Medicaid is ``vitally important.''

That sense of importance and urgency I heard from Nicole I saw echoed  from Jamie from Hazlet. Jamie's son David was born paralyzed,  nonverbal, and he is relying on a feeding tube. Jamie told reporters  that one of David's medications ``can cost up to $1,000 a month.'' She  said that if Republicans are successful in cutting Medicaid, ``we would  have to choose--are we going to eat? pay the bills? or keep him  alive?'' She said, ``It is a life-or-death situation.''

So when Republicans are talking about cutting Medicaid to hand tax  cuts to the wealthiest Americans, the choice they are making is to  leave people like Nicole and Jordan, like Jamie and David behind.

At some point, our children grow up and leave, but even then, so many  across this country rely on Medicaid for their basic care. In New  Jersey, one in seven adults between the ages of 19 and 64 is covered by  Medicaid.

When you look at the choice ahead of us between care and tax cuts for  the superrich, I want you to think about Caroline from Mount Holly.  Caroline called my office asking that I oppose this budget plan. When  she outlined her reason for not cutting Medicaid, she spoke in the  clearest possible terms:

I will die if there are cuts to Medicaid.

Caroline is disabled. Her daughter takes care of her through the  Managed Long-Term Services and Supports Program.

She ended her message by saying:

Please, I need help. A lot of us need your help.

These are the people that need help, not Elon Musk, not the  billionaires.

It is people like Caroline from Hackettstown. Caroline called my  office because her brother is on Medicaid. He is scheduled to get heart  surgery in the next couple of months--something that is scary enough  when you have the certainty of healthcare. But Caroline doesn't have  that if her brother's Medicaid is cut.

She said:

I'm really scared for him. I'm really scared for my parents       who are about to retire. . . . I'm scared for myself, someone       who also has multiple health issues and is trying to keep       down a full-time job despite it all.

These are the people that need help.

Our neighbors who sometimes need the most help are those who are  disabled. In New Jersey, one out of every three working-age adults with  a disability is on Medicaid.

Just last month, I invited Kevin Nunez--a disabled New Jerseyan and  an advocate for his community--down to the Capitol. Kevin relies on  Medicaid for his care, his caregiver, his basic quality of life. I  brought him to the Capitol because I wanted Donald Trump to have to  face someone whose healthcare he was threatening to take away.

But it wasn't just Kevin there at the Capitol; we saw his caregiver  Edna there. The work she does every day is truly incredible.

We should support our caregivers, should honor their service, and  cutting the funding that allows them to do their job is not the way to  do that.

Kevin is 1 of more than 15.5 million people across America with a  disability who are covered by Medicaid. He is 1 of approximately 4.5  million people who use Medicaid for home care workers like Edna.

The choice we are facing is abandoning those Americans like Kevin and  Edna, who just need basic care, or giving another tax cut to those at  the very top. For me, that is not a choice.

Finally, as we go through adulthood and age, Medicaid becomes more  important than ever. Seniors across our Nation are relying on Medicaid  for the care they need to live. Sixty percent of nursing home residents  in New Jersey use Medicaid to pay for care. When seniors are on a fixed  income, like so many of them are, Medicaid can be the difference  between life or death.

Annie, a teacher in New Jersey, called my office recently. Her mother  is on Medicaid--71 years old, recently had hip surgery. She has no  other income than her Social Security and asked that we do everything  we can to make sure that her Medicaid isn't cut.

As someone who is not just a father of two young kids but as a  caretaker of an older parent, it weighs on me, and I understand the  challenges that are there, knowing that you have to do everything you  can to make sure the people you love have the care they need.

Life is hard enough. Care is hard enough. The point of Medicaid, the  point of government, is to make it a little easier, a little more  bearable.

So when Republicans come to the floor with a budget that threatens to  cut Medicaid so they can give tax cuts and tax breaks to the ultrarich,  the choice they are putting before us is making your lives worse and  make their lives better. It is making your healthcare worse to make  their bank accounts bigger. It is making your future more uncertain to  make their futures brighter.

That can't be an acceptable choice, and it is not one we have to  make. We can reject this budget resolution and save Medicaid and save  healthcare. We can reject this budget resolution and choose to support  that expecting mother who just wants to give birth to a healthy child.  We can reject this budget resolution and choose to support that child  as they grow. We can reject this budget resolution and choose to  support our neighbors who work hard but just need that little bit of  help to stay healthy and achieve the American dream. Finally, we can  reject this budget resolution and choose to support our seniors. We owe  the best care to them in their golden years.

This is the moment to show the 2 million New Jerseyans on Medicaid,  the nearly 80 million Americans on Medicaid, and every other American  across this country that we choose their well-being over the wealth and  power of those who already have plenty. Let's reject this budget  resolution and do the right thing for them.