Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698621/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-air-plan-approval-south-dakota


Mr. KIM. Mr. President, I rise today because the American people are  looking at this administration's actions in Venezuela and asking: What  is the plan? As someone who worked in national security before coming  to Congress, I have been in the situation room for discussions about  military operations. I worked on and in both Afghanistan and Iraq,  where our country has seen the risk of getting pulled into open-ended  commitments trying to run other countries.

And I have seen the importance of always having a plan for the day  after, something this administration clearly did not do. So what the  American people are seeing from this administration is hubris, but  without strategy--a dangerous combination.

Moreover, it seems President Trump is drunk on this hubris. We have  now seen Stephen Miller saying that the United States has the right to  take Greenland. Secretary Rubio threatened Colombia and Cuba. It  appears that President Trump thinks that reverting back to an era of  imperialism or ``spheres of influence'' is the best way to demonstrate  power, that just because a military operation was skillfully executed  by our brave military personnel without Americans killed, that there  are no costs, that a world where ``might makes right'' benefits  American interests.

He is simply wrong. We live in a global world--if anything, an  increasingly shrinking world. Borders and oceans no longer protect us  against many of the threats we face today, including cyber threats and  the changing nature of warfare. The idea that protecting our immediate  surroundings will keep the American people safe is a dated, 19th  century idea that long ago became irrelevant.

This approach also risks taking our eye off the ball on other  critical challenges--like the one posed by China--while opening further  feuds with critical allies and partners.

Just look at the letter signed the other day by leaders from Denmark,  France, the UK, Germany, Italy, Spain, and Poland reminding President  Trump that Denmark is a treaty ally of the United States and, in doing  so, effectively issuing a ``hands off'' on Greenland.

I have told you I worked in Afghanistan. I worked on a NATO military  base alongside military servicemembers from Denmark who were there to  be able to protect and defend us with the work we do. I was there as  part of that NATO mission that was part of the article 5 response that  was about protecting the United States and supporting us after  September 11 in our time of need. Denmark lost many in that fight, and  the idea that we are now threatening that nation is shameful.

By staking claim to anything and everything within our so-called  sphere, we are risking alienating ourselves from allies and partners,  which is, arguably, our greatest strength. Furthermore, this approach  of ``spheres of influence'' and ``might makes right'' is one that our  leading competitors and adversaries--China and Russia--have been  asserting themselves. We are using their language. President Trump's  adoption of this approach endorses and advances their world view, a  move that could have dangerous global consequences.

How will this administration tell Putin that he does not have the  right to assert the same control over its proclaimed sphere of  influence or that Xi cannot exercise his will unchecked in the Indo- Pacific, including with respect to Taiwan? The United States should be  countering this vision of a world based on spheres of influence with  our own alternative of a stronger global order, not participating in  the destruction of the existing one by endorsing Moscow and Beijing's  alternative.

These moves also have costs at home. At his press conference over the  weekend, President Trump demonstrated a deep lack of understanding that  there is always a cost to our actions. There is the cost for our  servicemembers--more than 15,000, at last reports--currently positioned  in the Caribbean and focused on the operations in and around Venezuela.  Their lives are on the line. They have been taken away from their  families.

And there is the cost to the American people. Millions of Americans  are about to see their healthcare costs rise exponentially. Why are we  conducting military operations in a country that has no direct security  threat to the United States when people are about to lose their  healthcare?

Even if this administration had a sound foreign policy, it would be  essential that Congress assert its authority to speak for the American  people. But this administration does not have a sound foreign policy;  it has one that is rooted in bluster, built on extortion and  extraction, for the President's own benefit and without the best  interests of the American people at heart.

It is for them that we must reassert our authority. It is for them-- the American people--that we must be a strong check on this reckless  and feckless foreign policy.