Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700778/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. KIM. Mr. President, the average price of a gallon of gas in New  Jersey right now is $3.68. A month ago, it was $2.94. In that month, we  have started a war with Iran--a war that this administration doesn't  have a plan to end; a war that has cost 13 American lives and has  injured hundreds of others. That is putting America's reliability as a  partner further in doubt and driving up costs across the board at a  time when costs are already too high for most Americans.

Now, what are we doing about this crisis and trying to address it?  What are we doing to drive down the costs that the American people are  demanding that we take on? What are we doing to make it easier for  Americans to pay their bills and to be able to provide for their  families?

We are here on the Senate floor today debating a bill that Donald  Trump wants because he is afraid. He knows that he is at the weakest  point of his Presidency. His approval numbers are way down. And in a  little more than 230 days, voters will go to the ballot box for the  midterm elections.

So instead of working to lower costs, instead of ending this war and  getting gas prices down, instead of focusing on working families,  Donald Trump has Senate Republicans here to peddle a bill because, in  his words, ``It will guarantee the midterms''--a bill, by the way,  that, again to quote Donald Trump, ``supersedes everything else''; a  bill that Trump says he would ``close government'' to ensure it passes.

So clearly we see something that is not what the American people want  to see get done, not of benefit to the American people at a time when  they are demanding that we take on the high cost of living, but instead  something that is good for Donald Trump.

So while you are cutting back on driving because gas prices are  skyrocketing and you are seeing prices at the grocery store go up  because it is a lot more to transport food and you are rethinking that  vacation because the CEO of Delta just said airline tickets are about  to go up too, Donald Trump and congressional Republicans are focused on  passing a bill that drives up your costs.

The SAVE America Act is an awful bill, and I will talk a little bit  about this bill in a moment. But what this bill represents at its core  is Donald Trump's extreme agenda when it comes to elections. It is an  election that is built to, in Trump's own words yet again, ``guarantee  the midterms.'' He said that Democrats won't be able to win for 50  years if this goes through.

He is saying the quiet part out loud about why he is doing this, and  that is because his agenda has three core tenets: No. 1, let the  billionaires buy the elections; No. 2, let politicians pick their  voters; and No. 3, price people out of voting.

Let's start with the insane amount of big money in our politics  today. According to a report last year by the Brennan Center, the  amount of dark money spent in Federal races in 2024 was nearly $2  billion. That is hard to imagine, just unfathomable amounts of money  being poured into our elections right now. It is nearly double what it  was just 4 years prior in 2020.

That dark money represents a real threat to the integrity of our  elections. A report published last month by the Campaign Legal Center  highlights the way that the superrich can use our weakened campaign  finance laws to basically bribe public officials. The report exposed  the story of a man named Velutini, a Venezuela billionaire who was  charged with criminal bribery and was later pardoned by Donald Trump  after his daughter gave $3.5 million to a Trump-supporting super PAC.

These kinds of straw donor actions can take place when we have a  campaign finance system that has been built for corruption. That is  exactly what we are seeing--a system working exactly how it is supposed  to, which is marginalizing the American people and average working  families and lifting up the power of billionaires and corporations. It  is a system that has been built so billionaires can buy the candidates  they want, and if they get into trouble, they can buy themselves a get- out-of-jail-free card literally.

If my colleagues are concerned about election integrity, getting $2  billion of dark, corrupt money out of our system would be a good place  to start, and I think you would find bipartisan support to be able to  take that on.

The next place is getting rid of a system that Donald Trump has  supercharged where politicians get to pick their voters, not the other  way around like the Constitution says it should be.

Gerrymandering has never been weaponized like what we are seeing  right now under the direction of Donald Trump. He is so afraid of  losing the House of Representatives that he has threatened Members of  his own party who didn't want to go along with his plans. Just a few  months ago, he targeted Republicans in Indiana, saying that ``anyone  that votes against redistricting . . . will be met with a MAGA  primary.''

So we have a system, championed by Donald Trump, that lets  billionaires buy the elections and politicians pick their voters. So  where does that leave you? Where does that leave the American people?  Well, if this bill passes, it will make it harder for people to be able  to vote. It will make it such that they have to pay for a  constitutional right of voting, which is so sacred to our democracy.

Voting shouldn't cost people extra money; it shouldn't require you to  be able to have a poll tax. For millions of Americans, they will need  to potentially scramble to get a new form of ID.

Maybe my colleagues will say: Oh, just go get a passport.

Well, look, a new passport costs $165, and to expedite it in order to  vote costs much more than that. And we need to be able to deliver that  quickly, so that is an added $22 on top of that. That is nearly $250  for your right to vote. That is nearly $250 when this administration  has hurt our ability to get healthcare, be able to fill our tanks with  gas, be able to get groceries. They made it more expensive across the  board, and they have given massive giveaways to those at the very top.

This bill will make it harder for married women to vote if their  current legal name doesn't match the name on their birth certificate.  How does that make sense? It will make it harder for seniors and young  people to vote by throwing up new restrictions on mail-in voting,  requiring seniors and others to have to go and register in person when  they haven't had to do that before.

Why is it that we are trying to make it so hard for Americans to be  able to vote? But then you realize that is the point. That is actually  the point of this all. Trump wants to make it harder for you to vote  and make it easier for him to have his bidding. Why else did we see  this happening right on the tail of so much of what he was doing in  pushing gerrymandering so blatantly against our Constitution and our  laws? Trump wants to make it more expensive for Americans to vote  because that makes it easier for him and his supporters and his donors  to be able to buy their way to power. He wants congressional  Republicans to cease doing anything else and pass this bill so he can  ``guarantee the midterms.''

Well, that is not what the American people want. They want a choice.  It is their choice. They are supposed to be in the driver's seat of  their democracy. The American people want our elections to be secure.

I want our elections to be secure. I want to make sure that voters  can have full faith in our electoral process.

I have been fighting for years to get dark money out of our politics,  to reverse Citizens United, which I believe is going to go in the  history books as one of the most dangerous moments of our democracy.  That has unleashed a torrent of dark money and problems and this  nightmare we are seeing ourselves in.

I have been fighting to end the practice of letting politicians pick  their voters since my first day here on the House side. I even stood up  to my own party in New Jersey by suing to fix a broken ballot that let  power players pick candidates, not voters.

This is not about partisanship; this is about delivering for the  American people and preserving their ability to be able to drive our  democracy.

We have real work that we can do to make our elections safer, get rid  of this dark money, and make sure the voters get to pick their  politicians. But that is not the bill that we have before us, and that  is not the bill that Donald Trump is pressuring my colleagues here to  push through. Instead, this bill is a distraction from Donald Trump's  failures and is a desperate attempt to compensate for the power he sees  slipping away right between his fingers.

We can't let him do this. We can't let him distract us from the real  problems our constituents are facing today of $3.68 a gallon in New  Jersey for our gas. Let's put an end to this distraction. Let's stop  doing Donald Trump's bidding to hold onto power and do what we are  supposed to do--to focus on what the American people want--which is,  right now, so clearly about lowering the prices that they see  skyrocketing every single day. That is what we are here for, and that  is what they want us to do.