Compressed Gas Cylinder Safety and Oversight Improvements Act of 2025


Mr. BALDERSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, the  Compressed Gas Cylinder Safety and Oversight Improvements Act.

Mr. Speaker, for far too long, manufacturers in Ohio and across the  Nation have had to compete on an unfair playing field. This bill  restores fairness for American producers by cracking down on the import  of counterfeit and dangerous gas cylinders into the United States.

My bill also holds foreign manufacturers to the same safety and  inspection standards that domestic manufacturers are already required  to meet.

Simply put, there is no reason that the United States Government  should make it easier to manufacture these critical products abroad  than it is to produce them here at home.

To be sold in interstate commerce, the Department of Transportation  requires compressed gas cylinders to be manufactured to specific  standards and properly stamped. Currently, the Department of  Transportation's Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety  Administration, or PHMSA, inspects facilities in the United States at  least once per year to ensure compliance with safety requirements.  However, for cylinders manufactured in foreign countries and then sold  and imported into the United States, PHMSA only inspects those  facilities once every 5 years.

Over time, certain foreign producers have deliberately evaded safety  and regulatory standards to gain a competitive advantage over domestic  producers, potentially jeopardizing public safety in the process.

This bill ensures that PHMSA has the necessary tools to conduct more  frequent inspections at foreign manufacturing facilities and to hold  bad actors accountable.

I thank my friend, the chairman of the Transportation and  Infrastructure Committee, for his support in moving this bill forward.  I also thank my colleague from Illinois (Mr. Krishnamoorthi), my co- lead on this legislation, for his partnership and commitment to  advancing this important legislation.