Reliable Power Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698277/reliable-power-act


Mr. BALDERSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank Vice Chair Weber for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, America's electric grid is facing a reliability crisis,  one created by heavyhanded Federal rulemakings that prioritize politics  and ignore the realities of power generation and the needs of American  families. That is why I rise today in support of my bill, the Reliable  Power Act.

Under the Biden administration, Federal agencies pushed out rapid- fire climate rules and mandates with little coordination and even less  accountability. Instead of listening to grid operators, they raced to  advance extreme policies that threaten our most dependable power  sources with the American people paying the price.

The Reliable Power Act puts an end to this by preventing Federal  rules from moving forward if they threaten the ability of the grid to  keep the lights on. This legislation ensures proper coordination  between FERC, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and Federal  agencies proposing regulations that could affect the power generation  and grid reliability.

It strengthens Federal accountability, streamlines communication, and  puts in place commonsense guardrails needed to protect the bulk of the  power system.

Since introducing this bill in the spring, I have heard from energy  leaders across Ohio--energy co-ops, utilities, manufacturers, and grid  operators--who all say the same thing: Regulatory chaos driven by  climate activists is putting grid reliability at risk and driving up  costs.

Just look at this map I have with me today. You can see for yourself  how shortsighted policies can drive up electricity costs from one State  to the next. When Democratic States sidelined reliable, conventional  fuels and mandated rushed transition to renewables, consumers paid  more.

I don't know about New York or California, but Ohio cannot afford  rolling blackouts, price spikes, or uncertainty about whether our grid  can meet future demand.

Earlier this year, the Department of Energy released a reliability  report warning that blackouts could increase by 100 percent by 2030.

Mr. BALDERSON. The Reliable Power Act directly responds to those  concerns. First, it requires NERC, the electricity reliability  organization, to conduct annual long-term assessments of the bulk power  system. If NERC finds the grid is at risk of inadequate generation, it  must notify FERC.

FERC must then notify the Department of Energy, the EPA, and other  relevant agencies. Once notified, those agencies must send the proposed  rules back to FERC for review, comment, and recommendations to prevent  severe impacts on grid reliability.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support this bipartisan, commonsense legislation to ensure that no  future administration or unelected Federal bureaucrat can unilaterally  jeopardize grid reliability.