Women's History Month


Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. De La Cruz for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, on the final day of Women's History Month, I rise  tonight to highlight the value of the Women's History Museum. Karen  Staser founded the museum in 1995 with the aim of addressing the  significant amount of women's history that was missing from our  Nation's Capital and museums, including the Smithsonian Institution.

During the museum's startup years, the museum's first project was to  oversee the restoration of the iconic women's suffrage statute which  resides in our Capitol rotunda to this day.

As an artist of 40 years and as someone who has actually started a  small museum gallery in my home State, I am very concerned about  museums. This museum also organized a traveling exhibition on women's  suffrage, launched a popular newsletter called ``A Different Point of  View,'' created a bipartisan Honorary Congressional Advisory Council,  and testified before Congress.

Since its founding, the museum has played an integral role in  uplifting and celebrating the many women in history who have had an  impact on our society, women like my mentor, artist, and teacher, the  late Eva Hamlin Miller. Too often, these names are erased from our  history books, our K-12 education, and even our museums.

The Women's History Museum is a space where women can go to feel  inspired and motivated to dream big. It is a place where women's  legacies can live on, be celebrated, and not forgotten.

One such woman I want to mention, Alma Thomas, comes to mind. She was  an African-American artist who is now recognized as a major American  painter of the 20th century. She attended Howard University and went on  to be an educator at Shaw Junior High School here in D.C.

She had a deep understanding of the importance of the arts in  children's self-expression and created enrichment programs for her  students. Her most influential work included her abstract paintings  which she developed later in her life. She was the first African- American woman to be featured in a solo exhibit at the Whitney Museum  of American Art and also the first to have her art displayed in the  White House's permanent collection.

We need more representation of African-American artists like Alma  Thomas and Eva Hamlin Miller in the Women's History Museum. To exclude  their work is to miss significant parts of our country's history and  contradict the very founding principle of the museum.

I close again by honoring all of the women of our past who had an  influential hand in shaping the present. Wholeheartedly, I support the  work of the Women's History Museum. As always, I look forward to  working with my colleagues to continue to uplift the work and the  contributions of women, not just for Women's History Month but every  month and every day of every year.

Ms. De La CRUZ.  Maloy).