-9999


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, my hometown is Plainville, KS. The  population, according to Google just this morning, is 1,746. I rise  this morning to recognize and pay tribute to my hometown newspaper, the  Plainville Times.

Several months ago, the headline of the paper--the very top story  was--``Newspaper for Sale.'' Last month, the Times published its final  edition as a standalone newspaper and announced it will merge with a  neighboring town's newspaper, the Stockton Sentinel, to continue news  coverage for local residents. So I take sadness in the demise, the  departure of my hometown paper. I take pleasure and pride in its  continuation with the news being covered by the Times Sentinel.

For more than a century, the Plainville Times has served the  surrounding communities by providing information, education, and timely  reporting. The paper first began in 1800, though it changed its names  several times over the years, and it became known as the Plainville  Times in 1904.

Growing up in this small town in western Kansas, I saw firsthand how  the newspaper supported the community and brought neighbors, friends,  and even strangers together. Community journalism pulls us together.  National journalism has the habit of tearing us apart.

Over the years, the Plainville Times has kept the community informed  on important local issues like a new business coming to town, a city  council meeting, or the score of a high school football game. Rural  papers bring community residents together for special moments. It is  where we see when we have a new birth. It is where we see when we lose  a fellow citizen. It is where we celebrate with others about a 50th  wedding anniversary. It is the joys of graduation and holiday  celebrations. It is about ribbon cuttings. It is the pain of funeral  services and natural disasters and really everything in between.

Community journalism is important to the future of communities across  Kansas and the Nation. Today, community journalism faces growing  challenges with a rapidly changing media environment, as well as  workforce struggles and financial strains. Many rural newspapers have  very limited staffs, and it is not uncommon for one person to fill the  role of reporter, photographer, and editor.

Those who dedicate their lives to this profession, in so many  instances in newspapers across Kansas, I find the person that is just  doing the job because nobody else would do it. Despite these  challenges, that newspaper, including the Plainville Times, leaves  lasting marks on the rural towns they cover.

As a kid growing up in Plainville, then representing my hometown as a  Member of Congress, and now as a U.S. Senator, I had the opportunity to  know and speak with, get acquainted with the Times editors during my  lifetime, including Harlan Lill, who was the editor when I was a kid;  Carol Van Dyke, who then replaced him; and the current editor Candace  Rachel, whom I grew up with in my hometown. She is a longtime native of  Plainville, and Candace is deeply committed to our community and has  devoted her life to providing news and information to Kansans.

Whether I am attending a Lions Club meeting or visiting the local  high school, Candace is always there with her pen and pad and a camera  slung over her shoulder. She is one of those editors who does it all.  Candace is always there at everything. She loves supporting local  sports, the athletes, their parents, their families. She loves to  celebrate the victories and bemoan the losses. She always can be  spotted on the sidelines of a local football field, the basketball  courts, and at baseball games. I appreciate her. I appreciate her love  for our community, and I appreciate the way she treats every citizen of  my hometown--with the greatest of respect.

I want to thank the Times' publisher, Frank Mercer of Main Street  Media, as well as its staff, Bret Greenwood and Tonia Goertz, for their  commitment to local journalism.

Over the years, the Plainville Times has been dedicated to pursuing  the truth in informing local communities and providing a critical  service to rural America. The paper has gained a reputation for  informative, fair reporting,  and it has earned recognition from the Kansas Press Association for its  work.

With the merging of the Plainville Times with the Stockton Sentinel-- Stockton, incidentally, being our cross-county rival--the unified paper  will continue to cover Plainville and Rooks County. That is the good  news.

I want to congratulate the owners of the Stockton Sentinel, Bart  Hamilton and Susan Hamilton Schneider. I am grateful for their  investment in local journalism and their support for Stockton, for  Plainville, for Palco, for Damar and Zurich, for Codell--for the  communities that make up our small county.

I look forward to staying informed on local news. I receive the  Plainville Times every week. When I get home, it is in the stack of  newspapers that I have yet to read. It is the very first one. My wife  would say my first comment is: Oh, the Plainville Times is here.

I look forward every week to seeing what is going on in my hometown,  and I appreciate the publication that has provided me and so many  others with that information. The Plainville Times and now the Stockton  Sentinel Times will be important to every resident who lives in the  area.

I again thank those who made this newspaper what it is, and I  congratulate and wish the best for those who will make what this  newspaper will become.