-9999


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, exactly 1 month ago today, I stood on the  Senate floor and spoke about the impact that the government shutdown  was having on an already troubled aviation system and that the  traveling public was facing tremendous challenges with that shutdown,  and I cautioned against prolonging it. Now, 30 days later, we are still  here.

I was concerned that if the government shutdown continued, it could  force the closure of parts of the airspace and lead to further  reductions in the air traffic controller workforce. Unfortunately, both  these concerns have materialized in what has become the longest  government shutdown in our Nation's history. With 2,300 cancellations,  and counting today--Sunday--it will go down as one of the worst days in  air travel.

I have never seen anything good come from a government shutdown.  Lapses in Federal funding have made it harder for families to access  SNAP benefits, Head Start Programs have been put on pause, and  thousands of Federal employees are unable to receive a paycheck.

This dysfunction is damaging enough to our constituents and economy  here at home, but it also sends a dangerous--a dangerous--message to  the watching world. It demonstrates to our allies that we are an  unreliable partner, and it signals to our adversaries that we can't  work together to meet even the most fundamental responsibilities of  Congress.

As this shutdown continues, I want to particularly focus on the  impact  this lapsed funding is having on the aviation industry.

TSA agents and air traffic controllers have had to continue working  while missing two paychecks. It is a stressful job and one that has  grown increasingly more difficult throughout the year. Combine that  with the uncertainty of how to pay rent, put food on the table, and gas  in your car, it is no surprise--no surprise--that we are seeing more  and more controllers not showing up to work. We were already facing a  shortage of controllers, and now we are seeing more having to pick up  second jobs to pay the bills or seeing some quit entirely.

Our inaction and our inability to gain consensus are deterring young  people interested in futures such as air traffic controllers or other  aviation professionals from pursuing those careers.

The vulnerabilities in our aviation system have led Secretary Sean  Duffy to begin reducing flights by 10 percent at 40 major airports.  Airlines, businesses, and general aviation alike are cutting into their  operations to make certain that airspace is as safe as possible. It is  critical to know that these impacts are not lopsided on those high- traffic areas. Small- and medium-hub airports, such as we have in  Kansas that connect to those 40, are experiencing this pain just as  much.

While this is a painful step, it is necessary for the safety of the  traveling public, and I support Secretary Duffy's decision.

American Airlines indicated to me they canceled more than 240 flights  yesterday and delayed more than 1,000 flights, impacting more than  150,000 passengers.

Airlines for America said that staffing shortages disrupted the  flights of more than 4 million passengers from October 1 to November 7  on their partner airlines, and that was before the mandatory reductions  were put in place by the Department of Transportation.

We can expect more cuts if we do not reopen the government.

We saw how fragile our air system is, and it is the reason I  highlight aviation and the consequences of the shutdown tonight. We saw  how fragile our air system is earlier this year when a series of  failures led to a midair collision on January 29, which claimed the  lives of 67, including those of Kansans. That accident forced Congress  and our Nation to reckon with an issue that has plagued us for decades:  Why have we not effectively modernized our airspace system?

Since that crash, steps have been taken to train more controllers and  improve the aviation system, including a $12.5 billion investment in  modernizing our airspace. But those efforts are becoming much more  difficult to accomplish during a shutdown.

Unfortunately, the position the aviation industry finds itself in  today cannot be easily solved, but we cannot even begin to solve it  unless we reopen the government. Every day we remain shut down, the  fragility of the system intensifies.

Thanksgiving is only 18 days away. Americans are purchasing, would  have purchased, or already purchased tickets to be with their families.  If we remain in a shutdown much longer, it will become increasingly  difficult for airlines to deliver on their promises to their customers.

The circumstances we are in cannot continue. We must reopen the  government. I urge my colleagues to pass a clean continuing resolution  to reopen the government.

I am committed to working with my colleagues--my colleagues--to  address the concerns they have and any issues brought forth by the  shutdown.

We must return to regular order, advance a clean CR and these three  appropriations bills, and then consider further appropriations and  these issues that so many of us care so deeply about. Our constituents  and our Nation depend upon us to do so.