-9999


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, the deadly collision that occurred here in  our Nation's Capital between American Airlines Flight 5342 from  Wichita, KS, and a U.S. Army Black Hawk helicopter on January 29, 2025,  forever changed how we look at and think about air travel.

There were numerous circumstances that led to this horrific incident,  and the NTSB's--the National Transportation Safety Board--critical  investigation into this collision is continuing even today.

While the NTSB's final recommendations have not yet been released,  the Chair of the NTSB, Jennifer Homendy, took an unusual step in  publicly stating that the current version of NDAA--the National Defense  Authorization Act--does not adequately address the safety concerns  surrounding the mixed airspace around DCA.

She even went on to say that the legislation--NDAA--``reverses safety  changes made after the mid-air collision; after the NTSB issued urgent  safety recommendations; and after Secretary of Transportation Sean  Duffy rightfully implemented NTSB's urgent safety recommendations.''

Based on the data and recommendations we have received so far from  NTSB, we know that, one, there should have been limitations to rotary  travel in high-traffic areas of commercial air travel; two, all  aircraft in this space should be using position broadcast technology,  with nearly no exceptions; and three, the users of this congested  airspace should be communicating problems to each other, like the  15,000 near misses that occurred around DCA in a 3-year period between  commercial planes and rotary aircraft--15,000 near misses in a 3-year  period of time.

The current NDAA text includes a provision which misses the mark on  two of these must-have provisions; therefore, I will insist and be  working with my colleagues to amend the fiscal year 2026 National  Defense Authorization Act or to otherwise pass legislation, perhaps in  the appropriations process--I am a member of that committee--to make  sure that NDAA language is at least, as a minimum, abiding by the  safety standards that were set in place after the crash of January 29.

Our aviation system is fragile. I chair the Commerce Subcommittee on  Aviation and Space. We have seen this in testimony time and time again.  There is fragility in the safety of our air system.

Over the last year, Congress has passed significant legislation to  invest in the future safety of our airspace and introduced legislation  to make our airspace safer, including the ROTOR Act. Now is not the  time to step back from these efforts.

I am grateful for the hard work of NTSB Chair Homendy and her team,  and I look forward to receiving their final recommendations when that  time arises.

I also want to say thank you to the families of the victims of Flight  5342, who have continued to be vocal advocates for the safety of our  airspace in honor of the loved ones they lost.

It is important that we not take a step back but take a step forward,  and I will work in every way that I can with my colleagues to see that  we accomplish that before the passage of the National Defense  Authorization Act.