-9999


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I rise further today in support of the  nomination Jared Issacman to lead the National Aeronautics and Space  Administration. That is the vote that is now ensuing, just a few  minutes later than scheduled.

Last week, for a second time, the Commerce Committee favorably  reported Mr. Isaacman's nomination with bipartisan support.

Now, as NASA takes on some of the most significant tests in its  nearly 70-year history, including the beating of China and other  adversaries back to the Moon and positioning America for historic deep- space exploration, the Agency needs a permanent, Senate-confirmed  leader.

As chairman of the Commerce Subcommittee on Space and the chairman of  the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science, I  serve in both roles, as an authorizer of legislation and the  appropriator for NASA.

I have worked with my colleagues and with previous administrations to  provide the Agency with clear direction and the resources needed to  achieve NASA's noble goals.

I trust that if he is confirmed, Mr. Isaacman will be a reliable  partner in continuing that legacy.

Over the course of his nomination, I have had several opportunities  to speak at length with Mr. Isaacman about his qualifications for this  role, his assessment of NASA's current circumstances, and his vision to  lead the Agency into the future. I am confident that he will provide  the leadership that NASA needs to sustain and advance America's  leadership in space.

NASA's mission is not solely the domain of space. Just a couple of  weeks ago, at Mr. Isaacman's confirmation, I had the chance to discuss  with him the critical importance to many Kansans, including those in  agriculture, of NASA's Earth Science Division for supporting Kansas  agriculture producers. I was pleased that Mr. Isaacman shares my view  that NASA must remain steadfast in its commitment to science.

I want to thank Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy for his  leadership of the Agency as Acting Administrator over the past several  months.

Confirming, now, Mr. Isaacman as the next permanent Administrator for  NASA will equip our space Agency for success. I will be voting yes on  Mr. Isaacman's nomination, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I know of no further debate on the  nomination.