-9999


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, it has been a sad day--a set of sad days-- in my hometown of Kansas. I rise today to mourn the loss and honor the  sacrifice of Hays Police Officer Sergeant Scott Heimann, who was shot  and killed in the line of duty while responding to a domestic violence  call. He passed away in the early morning hours of Sunday, September  28.

My hometown of Hays, with a population of about 21,000, is a tight- knit community, where people look out for their neighbors; they care  for those in need; and they protect the vulnerable. Sergeant Heimann  embodied the best of smalltown Kansas values in living a life of  integrity and devotion and courage despite the dangers he faced each  and every day.

He, too, from a young age, called Hays his home. He grew up there,  and he graduated from Thomas More Prep-Marian High School, which is our  hometown Catholic school. He attended the University of Kansas before  returning home to the place he was raised. Sergeant Heimann first began  his service with the Hays Police Department in 2016, and after 9 years  with the department, his watch ended way too soon. He was an Eagle  Scout and a member of the Immaculate Heart of Mary Catholic Church. He  was a son, a father, a husband. He was devoted to his wife, Beth, and  was a loving dad to his children Patrick and Victoria.

My prayers--our prayers--are with his family and his parents Bill and  Teresa Heimann.

It is such a difficult time. Every day, law enforcement officers risk  their safety, putting their lives on the line to protect and serve both  their neighbors and strangers. Kansas is a home to so many brave men  and women who have answered the call to serve, and too many have given  their lives to fulfill this mission.

In small towns across Kansas, law enforcement officers, as they are  in Hays, are well-known in their communities, and they are well-loved  by their communities. We see them in the grocery stores, at the  football games on Friday nights, and in church on Sundays. They are  members of our communities, and they are familiar faces.

This courageous young man died with honor while protecting his  community and the people he had sworn to serve. In Hays and across  Kansas, the sacrifice he made will not be forgotten, and we resolve to  forever honor his service to the community he loved.

I ask the U.S. Senate to join me and my family and my hometown in  expressing our sympathy and gratitude--our respect--for this officer,  for a life served in service to others, and to a community that mourns  his loss.