Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, we for a second time failed to pass a  continuing resolution to allow the Federal Government to continue to  operate. It is because we are coming to the end of the fiscal year. Not  all the appropriations bills have been approved, though most all of  them have been approved by the Senate Committee on Appropriations. In  fact, three have been passed by the Senate.

This makes no sense to me. This is not a shutdown that makes any  sense at all. The American people, Kansans, deserve something different  from the U.S. Senate.

Every city council or commission, every school board, every local  government office in my State passes a budget and then lives within  that budget every year. Every local unit of government can figure this  out, and the U.S. Senate is failing one more time.

A shutdown means uncertainty. A shutdown means dysfunction. The issue  to me is this continuing resolution that would fund the Federal  Government until November 21--a short period of time--is designed to  avoid that dysfunction, to avoid that uncertainty. All that is required  is that we pass the continuing resolution, 60 votes in the U.S. Senate,  to keep the government functioning so--and this is the reason it makes  no sense to me--so that we can pass the remaining appropriations bills,  all but one of which have been passed by the Senate Appropriations  Committee and most in a bipartisan manner. For whatever purpose and for  whatever reason, that seems beyond our capability.

I understand there are those who wish to bring other issues to this  bill. Could we do one thing at a time, and when that one thing is as  important as this continuing resolution, to do it now? to do it  yesterday? to do it tomorrow?

We can't pass a continuing resolution because there are those who  want to bring other issues into the bill. Could those other issues not  be considered at a later time?

It seems to me that appropriating, passing appropriations bills,  keeping the Federal Government functioning, is one of the primary  necessities and responsibilities of the Congress of the United States.  This is simple and straightforward. Give us a few more weeks to process  the remaining appropriations bills, and the government continues to  function while we do so.

A continuing resolution, particularly long term, is a crazy thing  because it says we are going to fund the Federal Government at the same  level, in the same way that we did last year. And if it is multiple  years of continuing resolutions, the same way we funded the government  the year before that. Does anyone believe that the priorities of this  country are identical to last year? Does anybody believe that they are  identical to 2 years ago? Aren't there things that deserve a higher  priority? Aren't there things that deserve no money? Aren't there  things that deserve less money or maybe even the same?

A long-term continuing resolution is a crazy idea, but the short-term  resolution that we are dealing with now is a necessary solution. It is  necessary because we can pass the appropriations bills and avoid a  long-term CR. And we just need the time to do it.

So pass a short-term continuing resolution, do it, take up the  appropriations bills as this majority leader has promised to do--and  this majority leader has demonstrated he is willing to do it--is a  straightforward solution. Give us a little more time--a few more  weeks--immediately begin the consideration of the appropriations bills  that have been reported by the Senate Committee on Appropriations, and  at the end of that period of time, we won't need a continuing  resolution. We will have done our task.