Removal of the Use of United States Forces for Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela


Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Mast for yielding and for  his leadership on this critical issue.

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake about it, we are not at war with  Venezuela.

Nicolas Maduro is a murderer, an autocrat, a narcoterrorist, and a  thug who has oppressed his own people, stolen elections, and turned a  once prosperous and free country into a desperate nation that millions  have fled.

Most importantly, as for the action that the United States took  against him on January 3, he is a criminal, an indicted fugitive from  U.S. justice.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have demanded Maduro's  removal for years, after the stolen 2024 election, the fraudulent 2018  election, and the Constituent Assembly power grab in 2017.

In fact, H. Res. 1409 of the 118th Congress is a Democrat-sponsored  resolution with the unambiguous title of ``Standing in solidarity with  the Venezuelan people and condemning Nicolas Maduro's attempt to steal  the Venezuelan Presidential election.''

Here is another Democratic hit, H.R. 8741 of the 118th Congress,  pointing to the threat to our homeland, defining Maduro as a person of  concern who has engaged in a ``long-term pattern or serious instances  of activity adverse to the national security of the United States, the  security of critical infrastructure of the United States, or the safety  and security of United States persons.''

Who can forget Democrat-sponsored H.R. 5670 of the 118th Congress  that succinctly called for ``an end to the usurpation of Presidential  authorities by Nicolas Maduro.''

Instead of celebrating President Trump's historic leadership on this  issue and the unmatched operational excellence of the United States  military, law enforcement officers, and the intelligence community in  carrying out this historic and heroic effort, House Democrats are once  again putting politics before protecting the American people.

Mr. Speaker, this hypocrisy is evident in the message coming from  congressional Democrats. Earlier this month, Chuck Schumer stated that  President Trump ``seems content to drag our country . . . into an  endless war with no plan, no transparency, and nothing but wishful  thinking.'' Nothing could be further from the truth.

Operation Absolute Resolve was a masterfully, meticulously planned  law enforcement operation supported by the U.S. military.

I don't know how much clearer we must be with our colleagues on the  other side of the aisle, but the U.S. is not at war with Venezuela.  None of the actions taken by the Trump administration to execute an  arrest warrant on a criminal constitutes war.

The Trump administration has briefed both Chambers of Congress in  detail on the operation to bring Maduro to justice, an action the  Democrats in this Chamber would have celebrated had it been carried out  by the feckless and failed Biden administration.

Additionally, Secretary Rubio confirmed again to Congress on January  14 that there are currently no U.S. troops in Venezuela and that the  introduction of U.S. Armed Forces into future hostilities will be  undertaken consistent with notification of the War Powers Resolution if  required.

Mr. Speaker, the hypocrisy of House Democrats is palpable this  afternoon in this Chamber.

I urge each of my colleagues to vote down this deeply flawed  resolution and instead thank President Trump for continuing to take  historic action to place the safety of the American people first.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Mast for his partnership and  leadership.