Providing for Consideration of H.R. Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act; Providing for Consideration of H. Res. Expressing Support for Rural Communities Across the United States As Stewards of the Environment, Major Suppliers of United States Energy Resources, Critical Providers of Food Production and Manufacturing Capacity, and Drivers of National Economic Stability, and Recognizing the Work of the House of Representatives in the 119th Congress in Support of Those Vital Communities; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Esa Amendments Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702080/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-reliable-federal-infrastructure-act-providing-for-consideration-of-h-res-expressing-support-for-rural-communities-across-the-united-states-as-stewards-of-the-environment-major-suppliers-of-united-states-energy-resources-critical-providers-of-food-production-and-manufacturing-capacity-and-drivers-of-national-economic-stability-and-recognizing-the-work-of-the-house-of-representatives-in-the-119th-congress-in-support-of-those-vital-communities-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-esa-amendments-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-harnessing-energy-at-thermal-sources-act-of-2026


Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I was unable to vote during this  vote series today. Had I been able to vote, I would have voted: NAY on  Ordering the Previous Question on H. Res. 1189 and NO on adoption of H.  Res. 1189, Rule providing for consideration of H. Res. 1182, Expressing  support for rural communities across the United States as stewards of  the environment, major suppliers of United States energy resources,  critical providers of food production and manufacturing capacity, and  drivers of national economic stability, and recognizing the work of the  House of Representatives in the 119th Congress in support of those  vital communities; H.R. 4690, Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act; H.R.  1897, ESA Amendments Act of 2025; and H.R. 5587, HEATS Act of 2026.