Women Veterans Cancer Care Coordination Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695418/women-veterans-cancer-care-coordination-act


Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  California for yielding, along with subcommittee ranking member and the  co-lead of this bill, Ms. Brownley, and Chairman Bost.

Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of my bill, the Women Veterans  Cancer Care Coordinator Act of 2025. Women veterans are the fastest  growing group using VA healthcare services today, and I am proud to say  more of them call Texas home than any other State in the Nation.

As this population ages--keep in mind the average woman veteran is  54--they become more likely to develop cancers. The average age of  women veterans diagnosed with breast cancer is 58, and the average age  for reproductive cancers is 55.

For many of these veterans, the road ahead is not as clear as it  should be. Many VA centers are still building out their services, so  often women are connected with community care.

However, when they move outside the VA network, problems start to  pile up. Records don't transfer and systems don't update with the  latest data. That means more phone calls, more waiting, more back and  forth, more frustrations.

Women veterans and their families could be using this energy and time  on their treatment and their journey to recovery. A cancer diagnosis  shakes your sense of stability. These women need a care system that  works for them, not one that makes them fight to get the care that they  need.

By connecting them with dedicated coordinators at VA to guide them on  their path to remission, we can help these mothers, sisters, and heroes  stay in the fight. We made a commitment to these women veterans. Now we  must do everything in our power to keep that promise and to save their  lives.

This is a commonsense bill. It passed out of committee on voice vote,  and I trust the same will happen here. I urge my colleagues to support  its passage.