Democratic Proposals


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688233/democratic-proposals


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, it is hard to say where to start, but  perhaps I will simply augment what we just heard from my Democratic  colleagues, who gave example after example of the crazy, uncoordinated  attack on Americans that we are now seeing from the current  administration.

As we hear those stories of the reality of the programs that are not  moving forward, the reversal of critical programs to protect  individuals and their healthcare, to protect individuals in their daily  lives as they travel, to protect Americans now and in the future as we  address the issues of climate change and the enormous challenges, much  more will be said about that in the days ahead. It definitely should  be.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to deal with a positive message. It is a  positive message that compares how Democrats would address the  challenges of our time versus what our President and his DOGE minions  are doing and what our Republican colleagues here in the House are  attempting to do with their budget reconciliation proposal and soon  their individual tax and other policies.

I rise today as House Republicans are moving forward with their  budget scheme that literally betrays the working men and women of  America, all because my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want  to put forward and carry forward the 2017 tax program that the majority  rammed through this House without a single hearing. It was a program  that created trillions and trillions of dollars of deficit and did  little to enhance the American economy.

We see the Trump trifecta in action. Trump and Musk, with the backing  of timid Republicans, have traumatized Federal employees. Republicans  have purged the military of competent, experienced leaders and have  usurped congressional, constitutional power of the purse and power of  the law by dissolving programs, such as USAID, which is authorized by  law; the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau; and many, many other  government agencies.

Mr. Speaker, instead of reclaiming the constitutional power of  Congress, our Republican colleagues are now pushing forward their  budget that will make working families sicker, less healthy, and  hungry, all the while giving $3.5 trillion in lower taxes and tax  breaks to their billionaire donor friends and corporations. In the  process, it will skyrocket the national deficit and apparently betray  their own long-held view that deficit financing was bad.

Mr. Speaker, the Democrats have a different version. It is based on  what Franklin Roosevelt said many years ago: ``The test of our progress  is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it  is whether we provide enough for those who have too little.''

It is our intention to create a level playing field upon which every  American can advance and prosper. Republicans are doing neither of  these. Worse yet, the majority will provide nothing for those who have  little and give everything to those who already have so very, very  much.

The Roosevelt test is once again before us, and Republicans are  failing at that test. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle  intend to cut Medicare while making healthcare for the Americans more  expensive.

My Republican colleagues intend to cut student loan relief programs.  They intend to cut Pell grants that are crucial for keeping not only  students in schools but schools open all across communities of America,  particularly low-income communities.

Republicans will make our children go hungry by slashing school lunch  programs and even school breakfast programs. The majority will cut SNAP  programs, a lifesaving program that feeds millions of Americans and  provides support to farmers.

My colleagues will make our roads less safe by cutting critical  infrastructure. Republicans will cut services that maintain our  national forests and our national parks, as we heard. Firefighters are  being laid off or not even being hired for the summer fire season.

In our national parks, who will be there? Apparently my colleagues on  the other side of the aisle don't care much for those people who are  necessary for providing the summer programs in our national parks.

My Republican colleagues will give $3.5 trillion in tax breaks to the  superwealthy and to very large corporations, who often pay no taxes at  all. In all of this, the majority will add trillions to our national  debt.

Democrats have a different vision. It is a vision rooted in fairness  and rooted in the words of Franklin Roosevelt. We believe that every  American deserves a good quality of life, a shot at success, a vision  of a level playing field on which they can prosper and have the support  to rise as far as they could and as far as they would want.

We are here today to highlight our vision and to show the American  people that there is a disconnect between what the Republicans want and  are actually doing and what American families really need.

Here are some of those policies that the congressional Democrats  would bring to the floor if we had four more Members in our Caucus:

Democrats will support working families. The first thing we will do  to support working families is to expand the child tax credit.

Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro's American Family Act will cut child  poverty in half and provide critical relief for middle-class and low- income families by providing a $6,000 refundable tax credit to help  families with the high cost of a child's first year of life.

Democrats will lower the cost of goods and services for Americans. If  we  had those four additional Democrats, we would include provisions in our  budget to protect American families from price gouging. It is  unacceptable that American corporations continue to exploit the crisis  and leave working families with the bill. Democrats will establish a  Federal ban on price gouging, and we will hold those corporations  accountable.

Democrats will build and expand on the $35 insulin cap, which  incidentally is a price cap that Trump removed. The skyrocketing price  of this lifesaving drug for every American must be reinstituted, and it  must be expanded.

Democrats will expand the $2,000 out-of-pocket prescription drug cap  for all Americans, and Democrats will lower housing costs by expanding  the affordable housing programs, the low-income housing tax credit, and  strengthening access to housing using a bill that I have introduced  called the HOME Act, which will increase housing availability.  Democrats will raise workers' salaries and wages.

The third provision that we would include in our budget is the PRO  Act. The PRO Act protects the right for working men and women to  organize, ensuring that workers have the power to negotiate for fair  wages and benefits.

As a Member of the Labor Caucus, I know the importance of collective  bargaining and protecting unions. Collective bargaining is the fairest  possible way for workers to earn the money that they deserve for the  work that they have performed.

We will also push forward the Raise the Wage Act to gradually bring  the Federal minimum wage in line with the economic reality of American  workers.

Mr. Speaker, Democrats will also defend Social Security, Medicare,  and Medicaid. We will do this with legislation such as Representative    John Larson's Social Security 2100 Act, which will increase benefits  while ensuring that the superwealthy pay their fair share and secure  this critical program for future generations.

The House Republican budget scheme, endorsed by our President and  designed to help the superwealthy and their billionaire buddies like  Elon Musk, will cut Social Security benefits and Medicare and Medicaid  benefits.

In my district alone, the Republican proposal will gut Medicaid for  250,000 of my constituents. My colleagues on the other side of the  aisle will also go after Social Security benefits for those in need. In  my district, 89,163 children will lose their healthcare based upon the  budget proposal that the Republicans are pursuing.

Republicans will also cut $1 trillion out of Medicaid, and that will  gut healthcare services for millions of seniors, for pregnant women,  and for children with disabilities.

Mr. Speaker, the Democrats will defend our borders, and we will do  this with wise legislation and comprehensive reform.

Unfortunately, last year, a congressional bipartisan proposal in the  Senate to pass historic immigration reform was killed by the current  President, who was not then in office. He called upon the Republicans  to stop, not to proceed, and my Republican colleagues didn't. That left  us with the current crisis.

We have a proposal. Congresswoman Linda Sanchez' U.S. Citizenship Act  will modernize our immigration laws, strengthen our economy, and  provide for a responsible approach to border management, family  reunification, and for the necessary workers that we need.

We will do better, and we will deliver actual results that solve  problems, not create additional problems.

Democrats will pay for all of this by making sure that we have a  fair, equitable tax system in which the superwealthy and the  billionaires will pay their fair share. We will not go down the path  that our Republican friends intend to go, and that is to extend the  2017 tax cut law that actually provided more than 85 percent of the  trillions of dollars of benefits of lower taxes that go to the  superwealthy and the billionaire class.

We are not going to go that direction. The superwealthy and the  billionaires should not have a continuation of that tax cut.

We will also take a look at the cut to corporate taxes that was in  that legislation. A tax rate of 28 percent was on the docket for many  years until 2017. Even today, if we were to go back to that, it is much  lower than it was prior to that time.

We will not raise taxes on any family earning less than $400,000. We  will restore the long-term capital gains rate to 28 percent, which is  actually lower than the previous rates.

We have much work ahead of us, and we intend to see that it gets  done.

Let me be clear, as you heard from my colleagues here earlier, the  work that the DOGE boys and women are doing is a break-it policy that  Elon Musk has brought to the government. He has no business being in  government. He has no authority, or does he?

In the morning, we hear from the White House that he has no  authority. In the afternoon, we hear that he does. Either way, what he  is doing is dead wrong.

We know from the past that there is waste, fraud, and abuse out  there, and we know how to do it. It has been done in a wise, thoughtful  way. We tried understanding what that organization's purpose was and  then looked for ways to make it more efficient and effective.

I did this myself when I was Deputy Secretary in the Clinton  administration at the Department of the Interior. We were told by the  President and the Vice President that it was time for reform, and we  set about to do it.

In the Department of the Interior alone, we had just over 100,000  employees at the National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management, U.S.  Geological Survey, Bureau of Indian Affairs, and others. We looked at  those programs and said that it can be done better.

The end result was that we reduced employment by 10,000, a 10 percent  reduction. We made the Department more efficient and more effective.  That is the way it can be done. That is the way it should be done.  Wholesale reductions and firings, as you heard from my colleagues early  on, make no sense at all.

The contrast between what we Democrats have done and will do is  clear. We know the Republicans are set off on a course to further  enrich those who have much and to go exactly the opposite direction of  what Franklin Delano Roosevelt said, that it is not our goal to enrich  those who have much, but rather to provide for those who have little.

We will create a level playing field upon which every American will  have an opportunity to rise and thrive to whatever level they want with  a solid education program, a solid economy, and an opportunity to join  with others to raise their future.

It is our moment to push back and to stand up for working families.  We will put people over politics, and this is our moment to build an  economy that works for everyone, not just for a few.

Mr. Speaker, joining me today in this discussion are several members  of our Democratic Caucus.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Tran very much for bringing  the message to the House about what the current administration is doing  to harm veterans. I also thank him for his service, both in the  military and in his work in Orange County. I also appreciate him for  bringing to this floor and to this House his experience and this  legislation. Hopefully, the majority will see the wisdom of it and make  it law.

Johnson), and  I am looking forward to her thoughts.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I would like to have a colloquy with the  gentlewoman from Texas if I might.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Talk a little bit about where your district is.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I am certainly pleased that I gave Ms.  Johnson an opportunity to expand. I thank her so very much.

Dexter), a  new Representative.

Mr. GARAMENDI. If I might, I would like to yield to the gentlewoman  for a little colloquy.

Your experience before you came here, you were a physician?

Mr. GARAMENDI. What was your practice?

Mr. GARAMENDI. You did this in the district which you now represent,  which is what, part of Oregon?

Mr. GARAMENDI. Your experience is going to be invaluable as we work  through this very difficult period of time. I thank you for bringing  the message to the floor and to the American people. It is very, very  important that they understand the depth and the trauma that the  proposed budget will create and the alternative that you put forward.  Thank you very much for joining us.

I now welcome to the floor the gentlewoman from California, Laura  Friedman. I happen to know where she is from, so I won't ask her,  although she should certainly tell all of us about her district and her  vision. I yield to the gentlewoman.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Friedman. I would like to  yield to the gentlewoman for a short colloquy.

You raised the issue of education. If our goal is, as I said earlier  with the Roosevelt quote, that our task is to do for those who have  little, it really begins with education. If we have a good, solid  education program, then people will have the ability to get on a level  playing field and to move to wherever they may want to go in terms of  their quality of life, as well as whatever income they might achieve.

You were talking earlier about the education cuts. If you would like  to expand on that, perhaps the two of us or you alone can bring to this  floor the devastating cuts that are being discussed with the  termination of the Department of Education.

Mr. GARAMENDI. There are also very important programs at the higher  education level.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Thank you so much for bringing that to all of our  attention.

Earlier today, I met with the chancellor of the University of  California, Berkeley, and we discussed much of what you just brought to  our attention.

The research that has been undertaken at UC Berkeley has in the  previous year, 2024, created 1,618 new small businesses directly as a  result of the research and the effort that the university is making to  nurture these startup businesses. These are the businesses of the  future that are using the research, which you very correctly brought to  our attention, that is being cut.

That research has led to innovation, new technologies, and new  solutions. Perhaps you would like to expand on that.