Expiration of New Start


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Foster for bringing us  together to talk about this profoundly important situation.

We stand here today on a precipice. In less than a month, the New  START treaty, the last remaining major arms control agreement between  the Soviet Union, or Russia, and the United States, is set to expire.

If we allow this treaty to lapse without a replacement, then we will  be entering a world we haven't seen in decades, a world without limits  on the nuclear arsenals of the two largest nuclear powers: Russia and  the United States. We will be stripping away the last guardrail  preventing a catastrophic return to the unchecked nuclear buildup of  the Cold War.

In 1985, President Ronald Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev  declared a profound truth: A nuclear war cannot be won and must never  be fought. That principle has been the bedrock of global security for  nearly 40 years. It led us and Russia to eliminate nuclear testing, to  shrink bloated stockpiles, and to prioritize communication over  conflict.

Yet today we are close to forgetting that profound blessing. Instead  of prioritizing deescalation, we see a resurgence of the same Cold War  mindset that once pushed us to the brink of annihilation. We see  hawkish perspectives pushing the U.S., Russia, and now China to a new,  three-way nuclear arms race.

Proponents tell us that this buildup will make us more safe and that  more is better. They tell us that pouring trillions of dollars into a  nuclear modernization is the only way to be safe, but nothing-- nothing--could be further from the truth.

Without nuclear arms control agreements like the New START, every new  weapon we build only fuels an unwinnable arms race as our adversaries  respond in kind. We build. They build. We build. They build. And the  cost of this race is staggering.

Let me give you one example, Mr. Speaker: The Sentinel program aims  to replace the Minuteman III ICBMs. This single program has already  ballooned to cost over $200 billion, an 81 percent cost overrun. We are  spending blindly. We are on remote control: more bombs, more, more, and  we will be safe.

That is nonsense, just nonsense. We will not be safer.

Instead of doing the hard work of diplomacy, we are being asked to  plow billions of taxpayer dollars into a dangerous fantasy: the so- called Golden Dome, a missile defense system. We will be safe. We will  build more bombs, and we will stop their bombs.

We are told the system would cost only $175 billion and it will  provide the perfect shield. However, a recent working paper showed that  this system that actually attempts to defend against the full range of  Russia and China will cost as much as $3.6 trillion, a multitrillion- dollar gap between rhetoric and reality.

So what do we get for that price?

The same report concludes that with this unlimited spending, such a  system will still fail to be 100 percent effective.

Are we prepared to spend trillions of dollars on a shield that cannot  be 100 percent effective?

Oh, well, only if one or two bombs get through, forget about New York  and forget about Washington, D.C. After all, who needs Washington,  D.C.?

We have to be prepared to think differently. We cannot spend  trillions of dollars on a shield that cannot protect us all the while  that we are building more and more bombs so that our adversary will  build more and more bombs and find a way to evade the shield.

They will. We cannot engineer a technological fix for a political  problem. Decades ago we realized the only true shield against nuclear  annihilation is not a Golden Dome. It is the hard, unglamorous work of  a verifiable arms control treaty.

When we forget the lessons of the past, then we are doomed to make  the same mistakes. Luckily, we still have time, a very short time, to  do the hard work of diplomacy instead of resting the fate of our  Nation, in fact, humanity, on the fantasies of fool's gold.

We still have a choice. We can choose to continue down the path of  unconstrained spending and escalation and drift toward a future where  security is based upon a perpetual threat of annihilation, or we can  choose to modernize our thinking rather than just our  weapons. We can prioritize diplomacy over escalation and arms control  over an arms race. In short, we can learn from history.

That is why I am a proud cosponsor of H. Res. 100, authored by our  leader today and support arms control agreements and negotiated  constraints.

This resolution is not just about a treaty. It is about sanity. It is  about reaffirming our commitment to arms control, to oversight, and to  policy based on reason and restraint, not on fear and reflex.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Illinois for organizing this  evening. We have 1 month in which to extend the New START treaty or we  can fall into an arms race. We have choices. We have time, and we have  the power to change.