Introduction of the Bridge Corrosion Prevention and Repair Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693007/introduction-of-the-bridge-corrosion-prevention-and-repair-act-of-2025


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, today I introduced the ``Bridge Corrosion  Prevention and Repair Act of 2025'' with Representative Mike Bost (R- IL), Representative Chris Deluzio (D-PA), and Representative Brian  Fitzpatrick (R-PA). I thank Representative Brownley (D-CA),  Representative Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Representative Gottheimer (D-NJ),  and Representative Elfreth (D-MD) for cosponsoring this legislation.

Our bipartisan legislation requires all federally funded bridge  projects to use certified contractors for any corrosion control work  and employ industry-recognized standards for corrosion mitigation and  prevention. Specifically, our legislation would prompt State, county,  and municipal transportation departments to employ qualified, trained  corrosion control professionals who have completed federally registered  apprenticeship programs.

This legislation also builds on a recommendation from the National  Transportation Safety Board and directs the Department of  Transportation to study and generate best practices for inspecting and  addressing corrosion on bridges made of weathering steel.

In July 2021, the House passed Section 2 of the ``Bridge Corrosion  Prevention and Repair Act'' as Section 1116 of former Chairman Peter A.  DeFazio's (D-OR) ``Investing in a New Vision for the Environment and  Surface Transportation (INVEST) in America Act,'' of which I was a  cosponsor. While it was ultimately not included in the Infrastructure  Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58), I continue working to  build upon Chairman DeFazio's work on corrosion prevention policy and  promoting apprenticeships.

In the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022  (Public Law 117-81), I secured Section 813 (Office of Corrosion Policy  and Oversight employee training requirements) directing the U.S.  Department of Defense to make use of federally registered  apprenticeship programs for training military personnel, civilian  employees, and military construction contractors on anti-corrosion  activities. Under my amendment to the FY2022 NDAA, the DOD's Office of  Corrosion Policy and Oversight Employee Training Requirements is  charged with coordinating this work.

Under the 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Congress and the Biden  Administration are making the largest federal investment to modernize  our nation's infrastructure since the Interstate Highway System was  established in 1956. America's corrosion professionals and union  painters are ready, willing, and able to do the job.

Our legislation is endorsed by the International Union of Painters  and Allied Trades (IUPAT) and the Association for Materials Protection  and Performance (formerly called the National Association of Corrosion  Engineers and the Society for Protective Coatings).

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members of the House to cosponsor the  ``Bridge Corrosion Prevention and Repair Act of 2025.''