Introduction of the Public Inspectors for Safe Infrastructure Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692433/introduction-of-the-public-inspectors-for-safe-infrastructure-act


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, today I introduced the ``Public  Inspectors for Safe Infrastructure Act'' with U.S. Representative Julia  Brownley (D-CA) along with U.S. Representatives Stephen Lynch (D-MA)  and Rashida Tlaib (D-MI). Our bill builds upon the ``Safety,  Efficiency, and Accountability in Transportation Projects Through  Public Inspection Act of 2019,'' introduced by former Congressman Jose  E. Serrano (D-NY).

The ``Public Inspectors for Safe Infrastructure Act'' would require  construction inspections for federally funded highways to be conducted  by public employees. Our bill would allow State or local transportation  departments lacking sufficient inspectors to contract privately  employed inspectors temporarily. Our bill ensures public safety by  requiring that all federally funded bridges, tunnels, and roadways are  inspected objectively and thoroughly under the highest safety  standards. This work can and should be done by skilled, qualified  inspectors employed by state and local departments of transportation.

From the delays in building the carpool bridge connecting the San  Diego (405) and Costa Mesa (55) freeways to the series of issues that  delayed the Bay Bridge, there are numerous examples where outsourcing  inspection work to private contractors has undermined public safety,  delayed projects, and contributed to cost overruns. Our bill seeks to  avoid these potential conflicts of interest, while also mandating  public disclosure of any private inspection contracts used by state and  local transportation departments when public inspectors are  unavailable.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage all Members to join us in cosponsoring the  ``Public Inspectors for Safe Infrastructure Act.'' As a senior  Democratic member of the Committee on Transportation and  Infrastructure, I filed this bill as amendments to the House's 2015,  2020, and 2021 Highway Bills.