Introduction of A Resolution Reaffirming the Principles of the Constitution of the United States


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, today I introduced a House resolution  along with my colleague, Representative Lizzie Fletcher (TX-08), to  reaffirm the principles of the Constitution of the United States of  America, including the separation of powers, checks and balances, the  independence of the judiciary, and the power of Congress to control  spending, declare war, and conduct oversight. This resolution also  reaffirms the key individual protections enshrined in the Constitution,  including due process and equal protection under the law.

This resolution comes six months into President Donald Trump's second  term, a period which has been marked by escalating erosions of  constitutional norms and executive overreach by his administration.

Article I of the Constitution grants Congress broad powers, including  the power to declare war, regulate commerce, raise revenue, appropriate  funds and conduct oversight. For decades, Congress has gradually ceded  more of these Constitutional responsibilities to the executive branch.  As our country's founders warned, this has created a dangerous  situation ripe for Presidential abuse. It is essential that Congress  reclaim its legitimate authority as the first branch of government.

My resolution declares that appropriations made by Congress are law,  not mere suggestions. It quotes James Madison, who said ``this power  over the purse may, in fact, be regarded as the most complete and  effectual weapon with which any constitution can arm the immediate  representatives of the people.'' I urge my colleagues to hear this  message today.

This resolution is endorsed by more than a dozen public interest and  legal advocacy organizations, who stand united in reasserting the  essential roles of the legislative and judicial branches and in  declaring unequivocally that no individual--especially the President-- is above the law.

This resolution affirms what should be nonpartisan truths: that the  separation of powers is vital for a functioning republic, that Congress  controls the public purse, and that the rule of law and the protection  it affords are for everyone. In the face of escalating threats to our  constitutional order, Congress must not remain silent. This resolution  is a declaration of principle and a call to action.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members of the House to cosponsor this  important resolution.