Introduction of the Transportation Emergency Relief Extension Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694581/introduction-of-the-transportation-emergency-relief-extension-act


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, today I am honored to introduce the  ``Transportation Emergency Relief Extension Act'' to safeguard federal  funding for disaster-recovery projects. I thank U.S. Senator Alex  Padilla (D-CA) and U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) for sponsoring the  companion legislation and my colleague, Congressman Doug LaMalfa (R-CA)  for cosponsoring the bill. I also want to thank the California  Department of Transportation and the Texas Department of Transportation  for their support of this critical legislation.

Americans across the country are facing increasingly frequent and  severe floods and wildfires due to the climate crisis. When disasters  strike, our communities deserve nothing less than the full support of  their federal government. The ``Transportation Emergency Relief  Extension Act'' will ensure state and local governments have adequate  time to fully utilize federal funds awarded to repair roads and  infrastructure damaged by disasters.

Current U.S. Department of Transportation regulations allow the  federal government to claw back ``emergency relief'' funding for  highway projects if those projects do not reach construction within 2  fiscal years. The ``Transportation Emergency Relief Extension Act''  would repeal this regulatory deadline and provide up to 6 years for  projects awarded these funds to advance to construction. The new 6-year  deadline would start following the date on which a disaster was  declared by the respective state's governor or the president.

Mr. Speaker, I hope that any surface transportation reauthorization  bill this Congress will include the ``Transportation Emergency Relief  Extension Act.'' As a member of the Committee on Transportation and  Infrastructure, I am working with my fellow colleagues deliver this  critical priority for our communities.