Protecting Healthcare for Millions of Americans


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, indeed, it is a great State because we  have great freshmen Representatives. I thank them for this Special  Order hour and the opportunity to really talk about a critical issue  for our constituents in California and really all across America.

If we go back to the beginning of the Trump administration and we  think about the various issues that he has put forth and the burdens  that he has placed on America, one of the most important is in the big,  ugly bill. If you take a look at the big, ugly bill and you get into  the details, well, there are the enhanced tax credits for the  Affordable Care Act, and we will talk about that in a few moments; but  also in the big, ugly bill is the big problem coming up at the end of  this 2026 year.

They have put in place a dismantling of the Medicaid program. They  pushed it off until after the election, but the facts of the matter are  those impacts are already being recognized across the healthcare  system. It is going to affect every American and particularly those  that are relying on Medicare.

Now, if we talk about what the issue is today--and thank goodness,  the Democratic leadership in this House put forth an opportunity to  solve one of the most critical problems that face Americans right now,  and that is the expiration of the Affordable Care Act tax credits. That  has happened. Today, on this floor, there was a vote. Fortunately, the  House of Representatives, led by the Democrats and a handful of  Republicans, pushed forward an extension, a 3-year extension of the  Affordable Care Act subsidies which will be exceedingly important.

The Affordable Care Act enhanced premium credits expired. They  expired last year at the end of the year, and 4 million Americans  immediately faced a problem. The expiration of these tax credits not  only raised the cost for individuals in the marketplace, but it also  raised the healthcare costs all across America because it rippled down  into all aspects of the healthcare system, the insurance, and the  operations at hospitals and clinics. These harmful impacts won't stop  at the Affordable Care Act insurance premiums. Those costs are now  across the system.

Let me level with the American people. The Republican healthcare  crisis will make the American people wait longer for healthcare. It  will make Americans pay more for worse healthcare systems. And for  people who live in rural, as well as urban areas, your clinics and your  hospitals are shut down. Why? Because the Republicans have been after a  challenge dating back to the 1960s when the Medicare program was put in  place to eliminate the government's operations there.

There is still time to avoid this crisis, and today, this House, led  by the Democrats, took action to solve at least one of the major pieces  of that, the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax credits. It is up  to the Senate Republicans now.

Hello, where are you, Senate Republicans? Are you paying attention?  It is in your House. You have the opportunity to save this system,  Senate Republicans. I know that Senate Democrats are already on board.  They want to do this. Let's get this done.

So let's challenge the Senate Republicans, see where they stand. We  know where a whole lot of our Republican colleagues in the House of  Representatives stand. They did not stand with Americans. They didn't  stand with those people in your districts, in my district, that are  going to lose their Affordable Care Act insurance premiums.

We have got work to do. This isn't the end of this healthcare crisis.  This is just one more step along the way to try to find some way to  overcome the terrible burden that the Trump administration and the  Republicans have placed on Americans as they go about trying to provide  healthcare coverage for themselves, for their families, and for their  communities.

We met that challenge today. The Democrats here in the House of  Representatives met that challenge today, and we forced through a 3- year extension of the Affordable Care Act insurance premium subsidies.  We are thankful that many, and a handful of Republicans, stood with us  in this.