Reintroduction of the Forest Legacy Management Flexibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689872/reintroduction-of-the-forest-legacy-management-flexibility-act


Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, today I reintroduce the ``Forest Legacy  Management Flexibility Act,'' alongside Representative Ken Calvert (R- CA). I thank my colleagues, Representatives Jim Costa (D-CA), Josh  Harder (D-CA), Kevin Mullin (D-CA), and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) for  cosponsoring my bill.

As the former Deputy Secretary of the Interior, I know our national  conservation goals cannot be achieved through public land ownership  alone. The federal and state governments can and must work with private  landowners who want to do their part to conserve America's natural  landscapes, as my family did for our cattle ranch in 1998. This bill  would unlock millions in federal funding to help states conserve  working forestlands, create local jobs, and support sustainable forest  management practices that reduce wildfire risk.

Specifically, the ``Forest Legacy Management Flexibility Act'' would  allow States to choose to designate accredited, nonprofit land trusts  to hold conservation easements purchased with federal funding under the  U.S. Forest Service's Forest Legacy Program. Current law requires that  only the federal or state governments can hold conservation easements  purchased under the Forest Legacy Program.

Allowing States participating in the federal Forest Legacy Program  the flexibility to partner with accredited, nonprofit land trusts will  help permanently conserve more land by working with private landowners  who want to have their land conserved but are wary of selling the  federal or state governments an easement on their property. Expanding  opportunities to conserve working forestlands will benefit our rural  economies and encourage sustainable forest management practices that  help prevent wildfires.

This bill maintains the integrity of the Forest Legacy Program by  holding all accredited, nonprofit land trusts participating in the  Program to the highest possible standards. In addition, it implements  safeguards to prevent misuse of the Program and allows the U.S. Forest  Service or State to reclaim easements if a land trust falls into  noncompliance with the Program.

By unlocking new opportunities and funding for permanent land  conservation, the ``Forest Legacy Management Flexibility Act'' takes a  critical step towards protecting our country's natural resources and  forests for future generations. My colleagues and I are honored to  reintroduce this legislation to preserve America's working forests and  bolster our rural economies. Mr. Speaker, I encourage all members to  join us in cosponsoring this bill.