Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695144/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Chair, I want to follow along on the path that  our ranking member has laid out, but before I go there, I do thank my  Republican colleagues, particularly Chairman Rogers, for his efforts in  committee to put together a decent bill, which I did vote for.

However, I am seriously alarmed by some of the things that are in the  bill and even more that are likely to occur today. It is the erosion of  our defense policy's lack of fiscal discipline, strategic clarity, and  constitutional boundaries.

Since we passed this out of committee, the Trump administration has  unleashed the military against Americans in American cities. They  pushed unnecessarily expensive changes, such as renaming the Department  of Defense to the Department of War, and they continuously disregard  the Constitution of the United States of America.

As of this morning, my Republican colleagues have chosen to inject  divisive, partisan amendments into this bill. We will have more about  that as the day goes on. At the end of the day, most of those  amendments will be adopted, and we will have a truly bad bill before  us.

Sorry about that, Madam Chair, but that is where you are headed. If  we have a chance, we should take it a different direction.

Let us think about how we are spending the money. We are going to  spend probably a billion dollars retrofitting a luxury jet gifted by  the Qatari royal family to President Trump. It will be ready, assuming  we do it, about the time the President leaves here, and he will have  his own personal, royal jet. What in the world is that all about? By  the way, the money comes out of the Sentinel program, of which I have a  lot of problems. Perhaps that is good. Nonetheless, the fiscal  discipline here is simply not available.

We now have a $400 million 747-8. I assume the President will be  happy with his new jet when he retires, which cannot happen soon  enough, in my view.

By the way, we are putting in three divisions that are always ready  to go.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Chair, we have three divisions that are always  ready to go. One of them, the 101st Airborne, now has several thousand  of its troops deployed to the southern border. For what purpose? I  suppose with their binoculars looking around for something, most of  which isn't there; a total waste of their ability.

Are they going to be ready? The answer is no.

From the perspective of the Subcommittee on Readiness, it makes no  sense.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Chairman, I was curious what this day is all  about, and I was curious about these amendments. Isn't it interesting  to ponder these two amendments? The one we just had was about offshore  wind and the administration's termination of a project that is 80  percent complete, an environmental project. Here we are with the other  side of it, which is where that energy might wind up, and that is in  the electric vehicle, nontactical to be sure, although there are places  for tactical vehicles.

At the same time, I think I finally figured out what we have here,  why we want to rename the Department of Defense the Department of War.  It is the war on the environment. Perhaps that is what this is all  about from my Republican colleagues: the war on the environment. No, we  shall not have wind turbines that actually are efficient, effective,  and competitive in providing electrical energy. My goodness, we  certainly shouldn't buy any vehicle that might be electric because we  want drill, baby, drill, and oil, coal, and all of that nasty stuff to  pollute the environment. It is the war on the environment that we are  engaged in here.

My colleague from Virginia laid out what this bill is all about, and  apparently, my colleague from Florida didn't bother to read the bill.  There is total authority within the Department not to buy vehicles that  might be damaged by a hurricane.

By the way, why was it allowed to rebuild an airbase where we know  the next or maybe the next 10 hurricanes might, once again, flood it?

Oh, my, the Department of War on environment. Is that what this is  all about? I certainly hope not.