Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Mr. WEBER of Texas. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding.

Madam Speaker, quite frankly, I can't even believe that our friends  across the aisle are complaining. I guess that seems to be their habit,  their modus operandi these days.

Madam Speaker, House Republicans are fighting tooth and nail to undo  the damage President Biden's radical agenda--maybe that is why they are  complaining, come to think about it--inflicted on our economy, our  freedoms, and the American way of life. It is just that simple.

This week, we are moving to overturn yet another reckless regulation  this time targeting the very backbone of our supply chain: American  truckers.

Under Biden--I call him ``O'biden'' because I think he is Obama's  third term--we had a shortage of truckers, Madam Speaker. This was  Washington bureaucrats trying to do California's dirty work. Don't our  bureaucrats here have enough work to do on their own?

This is a direct hit on our truckers. I know. I ran a small trucking  business for a short time. This is a direct hit on our small businesses  and anyone who relies on affordable, reliable transportation, which,  quite frankly, is just about every American.

Let's be real: This isn't about cleaner air. Never was. Never gonna  be. It is about control. It is about forcing a one-size-fits-all green  agenda on the rest of the country--I might say the unsuspecting  country--regardless of what it costs working families, what it costs  farmers, job creators, and, yes, truckers. They just don't care.

This CRA sends a clear message, Madam Speaker: Republicans stand with  the men and women who keep America running. We stand with Americans for  common sense. I couldn't be  more proud to be here with my colleague for this bill.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. In  the words of the truckers: Let's slam the brakes on this nonsense and  put America back in the driver's seat.