Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is a new day in America. Once  again, House Republicans are standing up for hardworking Texans and  Americans by rolling back another harmful rule pushed through by the  Obiden administration.

Mr. Speaker, I call him ``Obiden'' because I think he is Obama's  third term.

This latest scheme slaps new taxes on our energy producers, the very  folks who keep our gas prices low and our economy running strong. We  are not going to sit back and let the Obiden administration strangle  our energy industry with unnecessary costs.

It is absolutely time to strike down this destructive natural gas tax  and protect America's energy independence.

Now, my friends on the other side of the aisle want to claim that  President Biden--I will use his name--his natural gas tax won't hurt  producers who are ``in compliance.'' I have a news flash for you. That  is a bait and switch, Mr. Speaker.

Under the current waste emissions charge regulation, the so-called  regulatory compliance exemption only applies if methane emission  regulations are in place in every applicable State.

Here is the catch: Many States haven't adopted these regulations,  which means producers can't even comply with these rules that don't  exist.

In other words, the ``exemption'' isn't really an exemption at all.  It is just another backdoor tax designed to squeeze the very industry  that keeps America powered.

This isn't just bureaucratic red tape, Mr. Speaker. It is a direct  attack on Texas jobs, Texas families, and energy producers that fuel  our Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support my colleagues in striking down  this burdensome tax and standing up for the hardworking men and women  of the Lone Star State and our great Nation.