Coronavirus


   The Committee on HELP will please come to       order. First, some administrative matters based on the advice       of the Attending Physician and the Sergeant at Arms after       consulting with the Department of Health and Human Services       and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 

       Individuals in the hearing room are seated 6 feet apart. As       a result, there is no room for the public to attend in       person. Representatives of the press are working as a pool to       relay their observations to colleagues. The hearing may be       watched live on-line. An unedited recording will be available       on the Committee's website--www.help.senate.gov.  Witnesses are participating by videoconference in a one-      time exception. Some senators, including the chairman, are       participating by videoconference. Senators may remove their       masks to talk into the microphone since they are all six feet       apart. I am grateful to the Rules Committee, Sergeant at       Arms, the press gallery, the Architect of the Capitol, the       Capitol Police, and our committee staff, Chung Shek and Evan       Griffis, for all of their hard work to help keep all of us       safe. 

       At our hearing last Thursday, I said that all roads back to       work and back to school lead through testing and that what       our country has done so far on testing so far is ``impressive       but not nearly enough.'' Over the weekend, Sen. Schumer, the       Democrat leader, was nice enough to put out a tweet quoting       half of what I said. He left out the other half, the       ``impressive'' part. So let me say it again in more specific       terms. 

       When I said ``impressive,'' I meant that, according to       Johns Hopkins University, the United States has tested over 9       million Americans for COVID-19. That is twice as many as any       other country--we don't know what China has done--and more       per capita than most countries including South Korea, which       several committee members have cited as an example of a       country doing testing well. 

       According to Dr. Deborah Birx, the U.S. will double its       testing during the month of May and be able to do at least 10       million tests per month. Here is what ``impressive'' means in       Tennessee: First, anyone who is sick, or a first responder or       a health care worker can get tested. Next, Governor Bill Lee       is also testing every prisoner, every resident and staff       member of a nursing home, offered weekend drive-thru testing,       and has done specific outreach to increase testing in low       income neighborhoods. A Tennessean can get a free test and a       free mask at the local public health clinic. The governor's       slogan is: ``If in doubt, get a test.'' 

       Gov. Lee sent his testing goals for May to the federal       government, as every state has done. The federal government       will help make sure the state has the supplies it needs if       the labs and hospitals in our state have trouble getting them       through the usual commercial       channels. Tennessee has tested 4 percent of its population.       The governor hopes to increase that to 7 percent by the end       of May. That impressive level of testing is sufficient to       begin phase I of going back to work in Tennessee, but as I       said last week, it is not nearly enough to provide confidence       to 31,000 students and faculty that it is safe to return to       the University of Tennessee Knoxville campus in August. 

       Last week I talked with UT Knoxville Chancellor Donde       Plowman about what might persuade UT students and 20 million       other college students or parents of 50 million k-12 students       that it is safe to leave their homes and return to 5,000       college campuses and 100,000 public schools in August. That       is where the new shark tank, or RAD X, at the National       Institutes of Health that we heard about at our hearing last       Thursday comes in. Swimming around in that shark tank are       dozens of early stage proposals for new ways to create       diagnostic tests. 

       Three weeks ago, Congress gave NIH $1.5 billion to create a       competitive environment in which Dr. Francis Collins, the       distinguished scientist who directs NIH, can search for a few       new ideas that can create millions more tests by August and       even millions more by the Fall flu season. Congress gave       BARDA another $1 billion to coordinate the manufacture and       scaling up rapidly simple tests with quick results. 

       For example, the FDA authorized last week its first       diagnostic test using saliva a person provides at home       instead of a nose swab or blood. It authorized its first       antigen test, like the ones used for flu or strep throat,       which involves swabbing the inside of a nose to produce a       result in a few minutes. 

       Another proposal, not yet approved, is to put in your mouth       a sort of lollipop that is a sponge, take a photograph of the       lollipop with your cell phone and transmit it to a       laboratory. If it lights up, you will know you test positive. 

       Or the university might send students' saliva to a gene       sequencing laboratory, which can process thousands of these       in one night and report to the university the next day. In       all of these cases, if anyone tests positive, that student or       faculty member will be asked to self-isolate for two weeks,       and the rest of the student body can continue their       education. The same screening test might be repeated in two       or four weeks. That same process could occur at a middle       school or factory or in advance of/for players in a sporting       event. 

       Of course, anyone testing negative one day could test       positive the next. But such widespread screening of entire       campuses, schools or places of work would help to identify       those who are sick and to track down and quarantine those who       are exposed. That in turn, should help to persuade parents       and students that it is safe to leave home and go back to       school. 

       In addition to more testing by August, I expect Dr. Fauci       to tell us about additional treatments available to reduce       the risk of death from COVID-19 and about the       administration's plan to do something never done before by       this country--start mass manufacturing a vaccine before you       know for sure that it works. 

       Vaccines and treatments are the ultimate solutions. But       until we have them, all roads back to work and back to school       go through testing. The more tests we conduct, the better we       can identify the small number of those who are sick and track       those who they have had contact with. Then we can quarantine       the sick and exposed instead of trying to quarantine the       entire country with disastrous effects on our economic       wellbeing. This will require millions more new tests, many of       them new technologies. Some of these will fail. But we only       need a few successes to create millions more tests. 

       That is why I said last Thursday that what our country has       done so far in testing is impressive, but not nearly enough.       First, squeeze all the extra tests out of current       technologies. But then create new technologies to produce       millions more tests to identify and isolate those who are       sick and persuade the rest of us it is safe to go back to       work and back to school. 

       This is a bipartisan oversight hearing to examine how well       we are preparing the country to go safely back to work and to       school and to determine what more we need to do. Such an       exercise sometimes encourages finger pointing. Who did what       wrong? Before we spend too much time finger pointing, I would       like to suggest that almost all of us--the United States and       every country--underestimated this virus. Underestimated how       contagious it would be. How it can travel silently without       causing symptoms. How it can be especially deadly among       certain segments of the population, including the elderly,       those with pre-existing conditions, and minority populations. 

       At the committee's March 3 hearing on coronavirus--six       weeks after the first case had arrived in this country, when       there were only two deaths in the US from coronavirus--I read       this paragraph from the front page of the March 1 Sunday New       York Times: Much about the coronavirus remains unclear, and       it is far from certain that the outbreak will reach severe       proportions in the United States or affect many regions at       once. With its top-notch scientists, modern hospitals and       sprawling public health infrastructure, most experts agree,       the United States is among the countries best prepared to       prevent or manage such an epidemic. 

       A lot of effort has gone into trying to make the United       States among the best prepared nations. Over 20 years, the       last four Presidents and several Congresses--in response to       9/11, bird flu, Katrina, SARS, H1N1, MERS, and Ebola--passed       9 significant laws that created or contributed to the public       health preparedness and response framework we have today. 

       These 9 laws stood up the Strategic National Stockpile,       created an assistant secretary for preparedness and response,       provided incentives for the development and manufacturing of       diagnostics, vaccines, and medicines, strengthened the       Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and created the       Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority       (BARDA). Thanks to the leadership of Sen. Blunt and Sen.       Murray, Congress increased funding to the National Institutes       of Health for five straight years. 

       All of this was part of a shared goal--Democrats and       Republicans, Congresses and four Presidents--to advance our       ability to respond to public health threats, whether known,       like anthrax, or emerging, like COVID-19, and they       incorporated lessons learned from public health emergencies       at the time. But despite all that effort, even the experts       underestimated COVID-19. 

       This hearing is about how we improve our response now and       in the fall when this virus is expected to return. During our       oversight hearing today and future hearings, I also intend to       focus on the next pandemic: What can we learn from this one       to be ready for the next one, which will surely come? Can we       learn from the current fast tracking of tests, treatments and       vaccines how to make them available even more rapidly next       time? How to keep hospitals and states from selling off masks       and other protective equipment in between crises because of       tight budgets. How to make sure Congress funds our share of       the responsibility? How to provide enough extra hospital beds       without canceling elective surgeries, hurting other patients       and bankrupting hospitals. Whose job should it be to       coordinate supply lines so that protective equipment,       supplies, and medicines are available and delivered to where       they need to be, when they are needed? How can the stockpile       be managed better and what should be in it? 

       My preacher once said: ``I'm not worried about you on       Sunday, it's what you do during the rest of the week.'' I'm       afraid that during the rest of the week--between pandemics--      we relax our focus on preparedness. We become preoccupied       with other important things. Our collective memory is short.       Just three months ago the country was consumed with       impeaching a President. Now that seems like ancient Roman       history. Now, while this crisis has our full attention, I       believe we should put into law this year whatever       improvements we need to be well prepared for the next one. If       there is to be finger pointing, I hope fingers will point in       that direction. 

       We are fortunate today to have four distinguished witnesses       who are at the heart of the response to the coronavirus       crisis. I have asked each to summarize his remarks in five       minutes. Then we will have a five minute round of questions.       I have agreed that we will end our hearing at 12:30, which       will permit one full round of questions. Sen. Murray will       have the opportunity to ask an additional question before we       close and all senators will be able to submit questions for       the record. There will be other hearings to follow last       Thursday's hearing on testing and this one. 

       Staying at home indefinitely is not the way to end this       pandemic. There is not enough money available to help all       those hurt by a closed economy. All roads back to work and       back to school lead through testing, tracking, isolation,       treatment, and vaccines. This requires widespread testing--       millions more tests created mostly by new technologies--to       identify those who are sick and who have been exposed so they       can be quarantined and, by containing the disease in this       way, give the rest of America enough confidence to leave       their homes. For the near term, to help make sure those       31,000 UT students and faculty show up in August, we need       widespread testing--millions more tests created mostly by new       technologies--to identify those who are sick and who have       been exposed so they can be quarantined and, by containing       the disease in this way, give the rest of America enough       confidence to go back to work and back to school.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT