Letter to Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary - Enzi Says Emergency Health Stockpile Needs to Be Reliable


Dear Secretary Azar:

I write to inquire about the plan that the Administration recently announced to modernize theStrategic National Stockpile (SNS). The SNS plays an integral part in bolstering supplies for state, local, tribal, and territorial partners during public health emergencies, including the coronavirus pandemic. The ongoing pandemic has put unprecedented pressure on the SNS to meet nationwide demand for critical supplies, such as personal protective equipment, and persistent shortages have unfortunately highlighted gaps in pandemic preparedness. White House officials have noted that at the time the pandemic hit American shores, the SNS stocked only "28 percent of needed items [for coronavirus response] and less than a month's supply of key items." Our experience over the last few months has shown that SNS inventories are not sufficient to meet the surge in demand for supplies needed by frontline providers, which is troubling given the possibility of a second wave of coronavirus infections this fall that could coincide with flu season and an "above-normal" hurricane season. It is critical to ensure the SNS is able to meet nationwide demand for key supplies should these three factors converge in the fall and place evenmore strain on our health care system than it is currently experiencing.

Though Congress enacted the SNS -- then known as the National Pharmaceutical Stockpile -- tomeet health needs stemming from a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) attack in the United States, Congress has expanded its scope to an all-hazards approach given that the country faces serious public health threats beyond CBRN threats, including emerging and infectious diseases, and natural disasters like hurricanes and wildfires. Given this broad mission and critical role in national security, experts have long stressed the importance of careful strategic planning to ensure that SNS supplies can be rapidly deployed as needed to support response in any type of public health emergency. Press reports indicate that the Administration plans to expand the SNS to create a 90-day reserve of medical supplies like masks, gowns, ventilators, and "crucial drugs" to combat the coronavirus or other pandemics. Administration officials have said the plan would be to stock "a much broader and deeper set of supplies" than kept in the SNS. I appreciate the Administration's efforts to improve our nation's pandemic preparedness and ensure that stocked inventories are consistent with the responsibilities that theSNS has been asked to meet.

HHS has historically played a key leadership role in managing the SNS to respond to the publichealth emergencies by pushing critical supplies to those on the frontlines and working with manufacturers to ramp up production capabilities of depleted inventories and other critical medical countermeasures. As the Administration releases plans to modernize the SNS, it is important that any changes are carefully considered so that Americans can have continued confidence in the stockpile's capacity to respond during a public health emergency, whether a CBRN threat or infectious disease. I respectfully ask that HHS provide written answers to the following questions by August 6, 2020:

1. Can the SNS be expanded and/or restructured with existing funds? What level of resources doesHHS require, on an annual basis, to support the modernized SNS? How will HHS increase focuson pandemic preparedness while continuing to ensure that the existing SNS maintains readinessto respond to a CBRN threat?2. What necessary products were missing from the existing SNS when HHS declared a public healthemergency for COVID-19? What medical supplies, testing supplies, and "crucial drugs," doesHHS intend to procure for the modernized stockpile? Do these products have a viable commercialmarket?3. How is HHS engaging with experts to determine what is needed and to recommend new medicalcountermeasure priorities for the modernized SNS? Will HHS coordinate with the Public HealthEmergency Medical Countermeasures Enterprise (PHEMCE)? How will HHS adapt the annualthreat-based review of SNS contents, performed in consultation with the PHEMCE, to amodernized SNS?4. Are press reports accurate that HHS intends to ensure that supplies in the modernized SNS aremanufactured by U.S. companies? If so, how will this be implemented? How will HHScoordinate with manufacturers to ensure supplies are ready to be deployed if the expected 90-daysupply runs out during a future public health threat?5. How will HHS balance short-term needs like replenishing the SNS in advance of a potentialsecond wave of coronavirus infections with long-term goals like ensuring preparedness for futurepandemics or other unanticipated public health threats?6. What steps can HHS take to ensure that the procurement process is nimble enough to rapidlyrespond to new research and changes in clinical practices as our understanding of emerging orinfectious diseases evolve?

Thank you for your consideration of this request. If you have any questions, please have yourstaff reach out to Amanda Lincoln at (202) 224-3424.