Letter to Dr. Stephen Hahn, Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration - Enzi questions FDA on plan to implement emergency use of COVID-19 drugs


Dear Commissioner Hahn:

The coronavirus pandemic creates an unprecedented challenge for the Food and DrugAdministration (FDA) and the panoply of laws that Congress has enacted to help Americaprepare for and respond to public health emergencies, including pandemics. With the nationcurrently practicing "social distancing" as one of our primary weapons against the virus,Americans are eager to get back to work and connect in person with friends and family.Optimistic projections, however, put an FDA-approved vaccine at least a year and a half away.Drugs or other therapies that fight the virus could be an important bridge between socialdistancing and a vaccine that would allow us to regain some semblance of normalcy with lessfear of severe health consequences.

Fortunately, there are more than 70 clinical trials of potential COVID-19 therapiesreportedly in progress, and FDA may consider these drug candidates for an Emergency UseAuthorization (EUA) that would allow health providers to immediately administer the productswhile drug sponsors continue to pursue full FDA approval, which can take more than a decade.In fact, FDA issued an EUA for the emergency use of the investigational antiviral remdesivir onMay 1. The potential public health impact of this and other product authorizations shines a newlight on the EUA program, which has been used infrequently for unapproved drugs, and raisesnew questions for its operation.

It is clear that FDA is aware of the monumental scope of the task before it. I appreciatethe agency's work to launch the Coronavirus Treatment Acceleration Program (CTAP), whichFDA says will "use every available method to move new treatments to patients as quickly aspossible." It is also important that FDA is participating in the Accelerating COVID-19Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines (ACTIV) public-private partnership aimed at prioritizingCOVID-19 vaccine and drug candidates, streamlining clinical trials, and coordinating regulatoryprocesses and assets. However, limited information is available to the public regarding howeither venture will be implemented and interact with existing FDA authorization and approvalpathways.

FDA's role as the gatekeeper to the United States' prescription drug marketplace is rarelyso visible as it is now. As such, it is imperative that the public have a clear understanding of howFDA will implement its congressionally-delegated responsibilities and steer qualified therapiesthrough regulatory hurdles on the basis of strong scientific evidence. I respectfully ask that FDAprovide written answers to the following questions by July 15, 2020: 

1. Given the large number of drug candidates currently in the pipeline, how is FDAachieving its public health mission and prioritizing review resources? For example, isFDA applying resources on a "first come, first serve" basis, or focusing resourcesbased on factors like scalability, what products could have the most meaningfulimpact, or what product could be in clinical trials or available to the public earliest?2. How will deployment of FDA's review resources be shaped by the AcceleratingCOVID-19 Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines (ACTIV) partnership with theNational Institutes for Health, European Medicines Agency, and drug companies?3. Is ACTIV the only public-private partnership expected to influence the COVID-19pipeline, or are there plans for additional public-private partnerships in the works?4. How does FDA plan to get potential COVID-19 therapies through regulatory hurdles?Will the agency need to evaluate data from randomized clinical trials to appropriatelydetermine risk-benefit ratios in order to issue an EUA for a new therapy? Cansponsors use real world evidence to support issuance of an EUA, including casereports and mechanistic rationales, and to what degree?5. How is FDA working with sponsors to advance manufacturing innovations andsupport rapid ramp up of manufacturing capabilities, and how does that support differbetween BARDA-supported medical countermeasures, BARDA-supported MCMsmanufactured in HHS Centers for Innovation in Advanced Development andManufacturing, and non-BARDA supported MCMs.6. Is FDA expertise in manufacturing technology available to COVID-19 drugcandidates that are not BARDA-supported and/or not supported by HHS Centers forInnovation in Advanced Development and Manufacturing (CIADM)?7. How will FDA balance public health priorities to ensure that concerns about theimpact of an EUA on clinical trial enrollment does not preclude issuance of thatEUA, if otherwise appropriate?8. What tools will FDA use to work with sponsors to ensure robust clinical trialenrollment even in the presence of an EUA?

Thank you for your consideration of this request. If you have any questions, please haveyour staff reach out to Amanda Lincoln at (202) 224-3424