Letter to David Bernhardt, Department of the Interior Secretary - Letter: Wyoming Delegation Requests Extending Exploratory Unit Deadlines For Oil And Gas Operators Impacted By COVID-19


Dear Secretary Bernhardt:

Thank you for the recent actions you have taken to provide guidance to BLM field offices forprocessing oil and gas Royalty Rate Reduction (RRR) Requests and Lease SuspensionApplications due to COVID-19, and for helping to ensure those applications are processed in atimely manner. Your efforts are greatly appreciated.

As you know, the oil and gas industry continues to experience significant impacts from theglobal drop in demand that resulted in unprecedented low commodity prices. Current pricesmake it difficult for operators to afford the large capital investments required for drilling. This ismade evident through the nationwide rig count which is at the lowest point ever on record. Injust a matter of months, the rig count in Wyoming has dropped from 21 in early March to onlyone today.

With this in mind, additional relief in the form of extending the deadlines associated withexploratory units for one year would prove exceedingly beneficial. Companies need capital tonot only remain viable during this downturn, but also as they work to rebuild in the future. Suchunit deadlines include those for commencement of obligation wells, paying well determinationsand continuous drilling obligations. We request that BLM exercise its authority provided in themodel unit agreement to modify the rate of prospecting, development and production in order toattain the conservation objectives of the units (Section 21). The Department of the Interior mustmanage federal production to maximize the conservation of oil and gas resources. Theseextensions will serve this end.

Forcing operators to fulfill exploratory unit requirements, such as having to drill two wells peryear, will not only contribute to the oversupply of oil, but it will also place the additional burdenon operators to cover the cost of hiring rigs. Under the current market conditions, this burdenwill be significant, particularly in states like Wyoming where it is comparatively more expensiveto drill. In short, current conditions make it impossible to meet the conservation objectives inSection 16 of the model unit agreement to "provide for the most economical and efficientrecovery".

As the economic landscape of the oil and gas industry continues to be altered by the COVID-19pandemic, we respectfully request a response to our request no later than June 24. Our hope isthat we can emerge with an oil and gas industry that can continue to develop and provide muchneeded jobs and tax revenue in the future. Your leadership and direction in moving this requestforward is of great importance.