Senate Legislative Agenda


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I want to associate myself with the remarks  of the leader. I want to thank him for all of his efforts to pull these  task forces together who are now working across the aisle to come up  with this package that we should be able to start working on today or  tomorrow. 

  I appreciate his comments that we are going to work through the  weekend. This is unusual for the Senate and for the House, but the  Senate is here, the Senate is working, and we are trying to come up  with solutions that will keep America moving. 

  I particularly want to talk about one piece of the package because I  have been getting calls from small businesses--small businesses that  are saying: We have been shut down; we have been told that we can't do  anything with our business right now. 

  Now, it is not all businesses. I do know that grocery stores are  doing very well, probably having their best year ever. That will tail  off a little later in the year, when people are oversupplied, but right  now grocery stores are probably doing well. 

  Every other part of the economy is doing poorly, whether it is  restaurants or shoe stores. I think I saw where they even got  permission now to deliver liquor. Before, you had to buy it in the  store. You couldn't get it delivered to your house. But, it is a  concession, because of the difficulty that we are having, to keep from  shutting down every business. That concession has been made in some  places now. 

  But my point is that small business employs most of the people in  this country, and small business is the one that is having difficulty  right now. Big businesses always have a little bit of leeway, a little  bit more of a forward plan, and because of their size, they have more  flexibility. A small business does not have that. 

  What has been brought to my attention this last week are people who  have payroll coming up. They have said: Now, we have been kind of shut  down--shut down by the government, they like to say, but it is shut  down by the virus, actually. The virus is what is creating this panic,  and in order to keep people well, we have suggested all these different  things that people ought to be doing, and I hope they are following  that. 

  But, for small business, this is disastrous. If they are not selling  anything, they have no cash to pay their employees. If they are not  selling anything, they don't need the employees. If they don't need the  employees and they fire the employees, then, they go onto unemployment.  And the unemployment lines are long. 

  That is not where we want people. We want people--particularly the  ones who are trained for a particular job--to be available for that job  the minute that job is available again. 

  One of these packages takes care of that situation. One package will  provide for loans to small businesses, provided they keep their people  on. 

  Now, remember, these people aren't producing anything. So there is no  revenue coming in to pay that loan off. So it also provides that,  provided they keep their employees and when the thing is over they  still have their employees, the payroll part of that and any immediate  need--there are other things that they absolutely have to pay. They  have to pay their rent, or somebody else has a financial problem. They  have to pay for the electricity and the heat and all of the regular  things that a business has to pay for, besides employees. But, provided  they have kept those employees on, those direct costs will be forgiven.  So that is encouragement for every small business out there to relax a  little bit. 

  I always say that the definition of a small business is when the  owner wakes up in the middle of the night and says: Tomorrow is  payroll. How am I going to make payroll? 

  Believe you me. That happens to those small business men out there.  If you have a bad week, who doesn't get paid? The owner doesn't get  paid. He has to pay those people, and he does pay those people because  he wants those people around. 

  That is the crisis we are facing: How do we keep those people around  so that, when the business comes back, they are available and the  business can go forward as it did in the past? 

  This package will do that. I only wish that there was some way we  could do it faster than Monday. And don't hold your breath. We are  talking about Congress. That doesn't mean things will get done by  Monday. They ought to be done today, but Monday looks like the earliest  possible time that they can get done. 

  So the message that I am giving is this: Small business men, hang on.  Hang on a little bit longer. If this passes, you will be able to keep  your employees. 

  Their employees will be paid. That is important. That is the way to  get money out into the economy: Pay employees, and let them keep their  health insurance that way. If they go onto unemployment, they lose  their health insurance. We don't want that to happen either 

  So this is the solution that needs to happen right away for the  employees, as well as the employers. I had a call from one this week  who said: I have to declare bankruptcy. If you do something, will I not  be eligible because I declared bankruptcy? It is a reorganization  bankruptcy, but I need to reorganize so I can find the cash to pay my  employees. 

  So I am pretty sure that the bill has a stipulation in it that, if  you declare bankruptcy after March 1, you will be eligible for this  plan and be able to keep your business going--not in a comfortable  situation, because none of us knows when this is all going to be over.  None of us knows what the residual effects are going to be on the  business world. 

  But we do need to have a vibrant business world out there providing  for the needs of people. We have really become reliant on others.  Hardly any of us produce our own food anymore. Hardly any of us produce  anything that we use anymore. 

  We could and we can--and people probably are--just get by, but that  is not what we are used to. That is not what we expect. That is not how  we live. That is not how we enjoy life. We enjoy it by being able to  have a job and buy the things that we need to have and do the  recreation that we want to do. 

  So I am hoping that this package can go through in an expedited way,  and I am particularly hopeful that the small business part, which is  where most of the people in the United States work, can go through so  that they can be paid, so that they can keep their insurance, and so  that they are ready to do what they have been trained to do and want to  do and like to do when the time comes that this virus has passed and  people can be out there doing all of the things that they like to do  again. 

  So I encourage the small business men to hold on. Help is coming.  That is pretty tough to hear from Congress, I am sure, but this is one  where I think people are realizing the severity and the importance of  speed and how many people there are. Well, I don't think we have quite  grasped how many people yet are involved in this and could be saved by  this, but we will. 

  I ask that the businesses hang on while we do our job, and I thank  the Senate for staying through the weekend to work this problem so that  we can do it in a timely manner--hopefully, by Monday. 

  Hang on out there, America. Help is on the way. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT