Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Chief Financial  Officer Vision Act of 2020, shortened to be the CFO Vision Act of 2020.  I am pleased to have Senators Warner, Grassley, Johnson, Lankford, and  Perdue join me as cosponsors of this bill to strengthen Federal  financial management and improve financial and performance data. 

  Improved financial management--this is numbers; I know this puts  people to sleep--improved financial management and better data can help  us make more informed budget decisions and ensure that taxpayer money  is wisely and appropriately spent. Effective financial management helps  to safeguard taxpayer money and ensure that it is used lawfully,  efficiently, and effectively for the purposes intended. 

  Thirty years ago, Congress passed the Chief Financial Officers Act of  1990, known as the CFO Act. This law laid a new foundation for Federal  financial management. It established a financial management leadership  structure, provided for long-range planning, required audited financial  statements, and strengthened accountability reporting, among other  reforms. The CFO Act also called for improvements in the integration of  agency accounting and financial management systems, in performance  measurement and cost information, and in our financial management  workforce. 

  Since enactment of that act, we have seen substantial improvements in  Federal financial management. Today, agencies have CFOs in place to  provide leadership and accountability over financial operations, and  most agencies receive clean audit opinions on their annual financial  statements. However, serious and persistent problems remain. 

  Many agencies have struggled to modernize legacy accounting systems  and are unable to integrate their financial and performance data.  Oftentimes, the Federal Government is unable to show the relationship  between dollars spent and results achieved. After more than 20 years of  trying, the Government Accountability Office still cannot give an  opinion on the Federal Government's consolidated financial statements.  They cite serious financial management problems at the Department of  Defense, among other issues. 

  The legislation we are introducing would update that 1990 law in a  handful of key ways to ensure sustained progress in improving Federal  financial management. It is based in large part on a GAO--Government  Accountability Office--review of the 1990 law and testimony last  October from the Comptroller General of the United States, Gene Dodaro,  before the Senate Budget Committee. 

  First, the CFO Vision Act would standardize CFO and Deputy Chief  Financial Officer responsibilities, which do vary across Federal  agencies. To allow for better strategic decision making, the Chief  Financial Officer Vision Act would specify that the Chief Financial  Officer responsibilities should include budget formulation and  execution, planning and performance, risk management and internal  controls, financial systems, and accounting. 

  The bill would also ensure that the Deputy Chief Financial Officers  could provide continuity in the event of a Chief Financial Officer  vacancy. Major financial management improvement initiatives can take  years to implement, potentially outlasting the CFO's tenure. By  establishing appropriate statutory responsibilities for the Deputy  Chief Financial Officers, the bill would help minimize the effects of  the CFO turnover. 

  Secondly, the bill would update the governmentwide and agency-level  planning requirements to ensure they are reasonable and allow for  proper planning and monitoring. The updated plans would include  projected milestones and estimated implementation costs. Annual status  updates would allow Congress to track progress toward these milestones  and how closely actual costs match those that were projected. 

  Third, the CFO Vision Act would require the Office of Management and  Budget to develop performance-based metrics to determine the status and  progress of agencies and how they are making progress toward achieving  cost-effective and efficient government operations. 

  Currently, only limited financial management performance-based  metrics exist, such as the financial statement audit opinion and  reporting of identified material weaknesses. All accountants understand  these terms. 

  Currently, only limited financial management performance-based  metrics exist, such as the financial statement audit opinion and the  reporting of identified material weaknesses. I could say that a third  time, and still people wouldn't understand it. 

  This new requirement would provide a more complete and consistent  measurement of the quality of the agencies' financial management. These  performance metrics would be required to be included in the  governmentwide and agency-level financial management plans and status  reports. That means we will have more information to work with. 

  Finally, our bill would require agency management to annually assess  and report on the effectiveness of internal control--whether they are  really keeping track of everything and ensuring that it is correct--the  effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and other  key financial management information. Auditors would also be required  to independently assess internal controls. Such assessments will  improve confidence in the reliability of financial reporting. 

  The CFO Vision Act builds on the CFO Act's foundation. By updating  it, we can achieve more effective financial management, which I believe  will ultimately lead to increased accountability and results and  understanding by the Senators. 

  I am pleased that our bill has been endorsed by the National  Taxpayers Union, the Project on Government Oversight, the DATA  Coalition, the R Street Institute, Citizens Against Government Waste,  Truth in Accounting, and Taxpayers for Common Sense. I think that means  that there are accountants on the boards of all of those. This  shouldn't be a controversial piece of legislation. It just should be an  essential update so we know what is happening with the trillions of  dollars that  we are allocating, spending, and checking up on. I urge my colleagues  to support this bill.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT