Sunshine Week


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise to submit to the Senate a statement  in support of Sunshine Week, an annual event that spotlights the key  need of a government-transparency. Without openness and access to how  all levels of government spend tax dollars or make key decisions,  accountability and oversight will lack. 

  Where transparency is lacking, waste, fraud, and duplication tend to  proliferate. The Government Accountability Office-GAO-regularly cites  ``lack of transparency'' as a chronic problem across many agencies and  programs. This can have serious consequences. This causes increased  taxpayer spending and improper payments. This hinders competition. In  turn, a lack of transparency can affect everything from public health  to our national defense. 

  Given the profound and far-reaching impacts of Federal programs and  policies, the people need to know how their tax dollars are being  spent. 

  Without access to reliable, accurate information, how can we be sure  good decisions are being made when it comes to spending the tax dollars  of hard-working families? Sure that the policies we craft in this  Chamber are working as intended? Sure that our limited resources go  where they are needed most? Sure that the programs we create aren't  causing harm? 

  Well that is why, as the chairman of the Budget Committee, I have  focused the last several years on enhancing transparency and improving  both the quality and quantity of data available for all decisionmakers.  I am extremely gratified that my colleagues from both sides of the  aisle, along with key organizations and experts, so often join these  efforts. 

  One step in the right direction is the Senate Budget Committee has  started to publish regular scorekeeping reports. These are available  for the public on the committee's website and track the budgetary  impact of legislation approved by Congress against current spending  levels. This helps provide other committees, Members of Congress, and  taxpayers with ongoing updates about the fiscal implications of  recently agreed upon legislation. 

  In addition, there are obviously many unknowns when it comes to  agencies implementing the laws and programs already on the books. To  address this concern, I led a bipartisan group of 15 Senators last  July, along with Senator Lankford, to urge the White House Office of  Management and Budget to make a complete list of all Federal programs  publicly available in a central, governmentwide website. This would  help to identify and eliminate program waste and duplication. Because,  believe it or not, there is no comprehensive list of each and every  program the Federal Government funds. It still isn't available. 

  The fact that legislators and taxpayers don't even know how many  programs we have or what they do is troubling, particularly as we  continue to create and fund new ones. 

  In the past, GAO has identified massive amounts of duplication across  the Federal Government, including more than 12 programs on financial  literacy, 160 Federal housing assistance programs or activities, 94  green building initiatives, 253 crime prevention programs, 14 diesel  emission reduction programs, 45 early learning and child care programs,  and 163 STEM programs. 

  Most recently, GAO's 2019 annual report on duplication found six  different government programs engaged in quantum computing research.  Clearly, all of these programs could be improved by some basic  coordination or consolidation. 

  This simple inventory has been on the to-do list for almost a decade.  There have been previous attempts, but those have fallen short. We will  continue working with GAO and OMB until the list is actually published. 

  Most importantly, last fall, I joined with Senator Whitehouse to  introduce bipartisan budget process reform legislation--the first  bipartisan budget reforms approved by the Senate Budget Committee since  1990. 

  The Bipartisan Congressional Budget Reform Act would increase  transparency in the congressional budget process in a number of ways-- by having Congress develop a fiscal plan that is easy to understand and  offers the public a chance to view if Congress is living within its  means, encouraging other committees to review the programs in their  jurisdiction that are in most need of review, directing both GAO and  the Congressional Budget Office to review program portfolios-portfolios  are groups of programs with  similar efforts. This has to be done on an ongoing basis. 

  But that is not all the bill would do. We also need to require CBO to  review and report to Congress on the accuracy of its past projections  and cost estimates, along with an annual plan outlining their efforts  to enhance transparency. We need to make public the information  underlying cost estimates of major legislation and reports related to  the debt-to-GDP ratio agreed upon in the budget resolution. We need to  require CBO to provide more information to help better understand the  true costs of our actions by including projected interest costs in  estimates for mandatory spending programs, revenue changes, and  supplemental appropriations bills. 

  We need CBO to include 10 years of cost estimates for spending  subject to appropriations, doubling the current practice of 5 years. We  need to bring budget gimmicks into the light. CBO would have to produce  public estimates of appropriations legislation that include the costs  associated with doling out money before the revenue comes in. We should  expose gimmicks like budget bait and switch. 

  In Washington, we like to say that ``sunlight is the best  disinfectant,'' and that is true, but sunlight does far more than  disinfect. It lights the way. Opening the books and reforming the  budget process will help make us better equipped to face the enormous  fiscal challenges looming just ahead.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT