Agricultural Risk Review Act of 2025


Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1713) to amend the Defense Production Act of 1950 to include  the Secretary of Agriculture as a member of the Committee on Foreign  Investment in the United States, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1713

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Agricultural Risk Review Act       of 2025''.       SEC. 2. INCLUSION OF THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE ON THE                     COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED                     STATES.

Section 721(k) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50       U.S.C. 4565(k)) is amended by adding at the end the       following:

``(8) Inclusion of the secretary of agriculture.--The       Secretary of Agriculture shall be a member of the Committee       with respect to a covered transaction that involves--

``(A) agricultural land;

``(B) agriculture biotechnology; or

``(C) the agriculture industry, including agricultural       transportation, storage, and processing.''.       SEC. 3. CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN AGRICULTURAL LAND                     TRANSACTIONS.

Section 721(b)(1) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50       U.S.C. 4565(b)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the       following:

``(I) Consideration of certain agricultural land       transactions.--

``(i) In general.--After receiving notification from the       Secretary of Agriculture of a reportable agricultural land       transaction, the Committee shall determine--

``(I) whether the transaction is a covered transaction; and

``(II) if the Committee determines that the transaction is       a covered transaction, whether the Committee should initiate       a review pursuant to subparagraph (D), or take another action       authorized under this section, with respect to the reportable       agricultural land transaction.

``(ii) Reportable agricultural land transaction.--In this       subparagraph, the term `reportable agricultural land       transaction' means a transaction--

``(I) that the Secretary of Agriculture has reason to       believe is a covered transaction, based on information from       or in cooperation with the intelligence community;

``(II) that involves the acquisition of an interest in       agricultural land by a foreign person of the People's       Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,       the Russian Federation, or the Islamic Republic of Iran; and

``(III) with respect to which a person is required to       submit a report to the Secretary of Agriculture under section       2(a) of the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of       1978.

``(iii) Sunset.--The requirements under this subparagraph       shall terminate, with respect to a foreign person of the       respective foreign country, on the date that the People's       Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,       the Russian Federation, or the Islamic Republic of Iran, as       the case may be, is removed from the list of foreign       adversaries in section 791.4 of title 15, Code of Federal       Regulations.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1713, the Agricultural Risk  Review Act of 2025. I thank Representative Lucas for his longstanding  leadership on this important legislation.

Today, the United States confronts a critical issue at the  intersection of national security and agriculture: foreign investment  in American farmland.

The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS,  plays a vital role in safeguarding our country by reviewing foreign  acquisitions that could pose risks to our national security. Ensuring  that CFIUS has the right expertise and authority to evaluate these  transactions is more important than ever.

For the first time since 2007, H.R. 1713 would formally add a Cabinet  Secretary to CFIUS, giving the Secretary of Agriculture an official  role in reviewing relevant agricultural transactions for national  security risks.

CFIUS has long held jurisdiction over foreign acquisitions of  agricultural businesses, including farmland involved in interstate  commerce. Since 2018, it has also been authorized to perform reviews of  land purchases near sensitive government sites. However, there is a  need to connect the Agriculture Department's expertise, including its  longstanding tracking of farmland purchases, with CFIUS' operations.

CFIUS could greatly benefit from the Secretary's expertise, and that  is what Congressman Lucas' legislation allows. As one of the first  Members of Congress to recognize this need at CFIUS, I applaud  Representative Lucas for his foresight and his dedication in advancing  this legislation.

I look forward to supporting his bill today. I urge all my colleagues  to join me in supporting H.R. 1713, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, in closing, there is a need to connect the  Agriculture Department's expertise, including its longstanding tracking  of farmland purchases, with CFIUS' operations.

I look forward to supporting this bill today. I urge my colleagues to  do so and join me in supporting H.R. 1713, and I applaud Mr. Lucas for  this bill.