Small Entity Update Act


Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3351, the  Improving Access to Small Business Information Act.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle,  Representatives Kim and Gottheimer, for their work on this commonsense,  bipartisan piece of legislation that will give Americans, small  businesses, and entrepreneurs a stronger voice at the SEC.

H.R. 3351 offers a straightforward solution to empower the SEC's  Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation, the  advocate, making it a more effective champion for American  entrepreneurs.

Mr. Speaker, I also rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 3382, the  Small Entity Update Act. I thank my colleagues across the aisle,  Congressmen Casten, Himes, Scott, and Torres, for their support of this  impactful bipartisan legislation. It ensures that the SEC fairly weighs  in its rulemaking the regulatory burdens faced by small businesses.

This bipartisan bill would direct the SEC to assess the costs of  compliance for small and growing businesses, ensuring that regulations  placed on these businesses are not overly burdensome.

Specifically, the bill would direct the Commission to conduct a  study, followed by a rulemaking consistent with the results of such  study every 5 years, including defining the term ``small entity'' under  the Regulatory Flexibility Act.

Simply put, small businesses can't afford the extensive legal and  regulatory expertise that large, multinational firms employ to comply  with every regulation while still managing their operating costs.

Recognizing that company sizes and market dynamics constantly evolve,  my bill requires the SEC to update its definition of ``small entity''  every 5 years.

For our economy to flourish, Congress and regulators must ensure that  all policies consider their impact on America's millions of small  businesses.

Mr. Speaker, by creating a more focused regulatory approach for small  entities, the Small Entity Update Act will make it easier for  entrepreneurs across the country to achieve the American Dream.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote for this bill, H.R.  3382.