Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Record of Decision for the Barred Owl


Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I want to thank the Senator from New  Mexico for coming out here and making it very clear who we are fighting  for. And it really is Americans across this country, who are seeing  their costs skyrocket across the board. And, as Democrats, we want to  make sure that, yes, they are paid, but they also have the ability to  get their healthcare.

I heard the majority leader just now say they are not going to  operate with a gun to their head. I would say to the majority party  that the gun to the head is to all these people who are opening up  their healthcare notices this week and are finding out that their costs  are skyrocketing. Why? Because what the Republicans have said--and just  said again--is that they want to talk about it. Talking about it is  going to do absolutely nothing for those people who are getting those  bills and those payments today.

So I wanted to come to the floor today and talk about that. And I  would say to my Republican colleagues: Yeah, we all want to have  bipartisan bills. We want to work on bipartisan appropriations.

But what we have in front of us is a CR that is partisan, that says:  Do it my way or the highway, and do not discuss the priorities of the  Democrats.

When you are asking us for votes--when you are asking for Democratic  votes--you can't just demand whatever you want and say: If you don't do  it, then we are going to sit here--which is what the Republicans have  done.

I would ask the Republican leader, as I have done so many times: Talk  to the Democratic leader. Bring the President in the room.

I have been here many, many times when we have had to find a way out  of a challenging situation. And you know who has always been at the  table? The President, the majority leader, and the Speaker of the  House, and the minority leaders--on both sides of the aisle. And that  has not happened yet.

And that is why we are sitting where we are, where, today, my  constituents who are hurting are saying to me: Where are the  Republicans, and why are they not talking to you about how we solve  this issue?

The majority leader said: Well, there are problems with it.

They could have done this months ago. And they say: Oh, now, we can  open up the government, and we will talk about it.

What does ``talk about it'' do to my constituents? Because, last  week, window shopping for next year's health plans actually started in  my home State, and, this week, open enrollment begins nationwide. I am  hearing from families in my State today who are panicked.

While Republicans are refusing to act on this and saying they are  going to talk about it, their premiums--their family's premiums--are  going through the roof, and their healthcare coverage is slipping out  of reach.

There are so many stories. I have talked to small business owners. I  have talked to patients, and I have talked to parents. And I have  lifted up their concerns here on the Senate floor, and I am going to  keep doing everything I can to shout out these stories from the  rooftops, because, right now, Republicans are doing everything they can  to ignore this and to say: Deal with it later.

And what is ``later''? Well, later never comes.

Why do I know that? Because we brought up this issue, time and time  again, throughout the summer, when the Republicans were giving away tax  breaks to billionaires, and saying: This is an issue that is  confronting us.

And it was ``later'' then. It is ``later'' now, and ``later'' is way  too late.

There are many stories about this, too awful to ignore, and there are  millions of families that are facing absolutely catastrophic price  increases. I have heard from seniors whose premiums are increasing  eightfold.

So in order to make the scope and scale of the problem that  Republicans want to ignore and talk about later, I thought I would  share a list--just the top lines--of what I am hearing from my  constituents about how their healthcare costs are going to skyrocket if  Republicans refuse to work with us, or even talk to us, about this  issue and help us find a solution so we can all move on by saving the  healthcare tax credits.

I am going to share some of those stores today.

There is Kathleen. She lives in Bellingham. Now, if Republicans  refuse to act, she is going to see her monthly premium triple.

Sharon, in Thurston County, in my State--if Republicans refuse to  act, her premium is going to double, increasing by over $100 a month.

And we are just getting started, because if Republicans refuse to  act, Nanette in Tumwater and Stacya in Seattle are both going to see  their premiums increase by $400 a month--not a year, a month.

If Republicans refuse to act, Leslie's husband in Brewster is going  to see his premiums increase by $780 a month. Tom will see his premiums  increase by over $800 a month. Jennifer will see her premium go up by  at least $890 a month.

And, I have to emphasize, we are talking about families, seniors,  small business owners, people who cannot afford that kind of increase.

And yet if Republicans refuse to act, Jason in Seattle is going to  see his premium increase by over $900 a month; Maya in Woodinville,  $1,000 more a month. I can't even imagine that.

But if you think that is outrageous, well, Republicans don't think it  is worth talking about--or talk about it later, when it is way too  late, or pretend that they are going to do something about it, but not  really.

Talk about a gun to their head, if we do not act, Diane in Wenatchee  is going to see her premium increase by over $1,400 a month.

Leighann told me $1,500 a month that her premium will increase;  Terry, a $1,600-a-month increase; and the Banergee family told me they  are going to see their premium go up by more than $1,600 every single  month.

The Republican plan: talk about it; do nothing. For all of us who  have been here, we have been waiting for the plan for a long time and  have never seen it--have never seen it. It is always just a plan.

Rebecca in Seattle will see her premium increase by more than $1,700  a month.

By the way, that plan is not in writing. It is a thought in  somebody's head that has never been told to anybody. What do we have  here today? Republican silence.

James and his wife are going to see their premium go up by a  completely unreasonable $1,800 a month. Damian said his is going to go  up $2,000 a month. Why? Because Republicans are refusing to act. That  is whom we are fighting for here today.

I could go on and on, but those cases I just told you about all came  from Washington State. That is a drop in the bucket. There are several  million more examples just like this in red States across the country.

Bob in Idaho told me his premium will jump by nearly $1,900 a month;  Nancy in Florida, $1,000 a month; Cheri in Tennessee will see her  monthly costs go from $10 to $1,140.

I mean, we could do this all day. Yet Republicans can't be bothered  to do it at all. These are their constituents. Nearly 4 million people  in Texas rely on these tax credits. Republicans don't want to save over  4 million in Florida.

The increases they are going to face are unthinkable. In five  States--all red States--families who rely on these tax credits are  going to see prices more than quadruple. That is on average.

It is unthinkable, it is unconscionable, and totally untethered from  reality for Republican leaders to think they can just ignore this  tsunami or this price hike.

So I say to my Republican friends: You have to get your heads out of  the sand. This is a real problem for families. Later is way too late,  and I don't think it exists.

The majority leader just said that families don't know that they get  this. There is something wrong with that? They find out that their  healthcare--that they are being helped by their neighbors and their  friends and the people in this country who say it is important for all  of us to make sure our healthcare premiums are lowered? I would say to  my Republican colleagues: Listen to your constituents. It is their  health. It is their lives. They are telling you that. They want action.  Open enrollment for this country starts Saturday. The time to act is  now. So I hope they start listening.

Please join us at a negotiating table, not out here on the floor just  throwing things around. Join us. The majority leader can call the  minority leader and the President and get them in the room, which is  what we always do when we have a challenge in front of us. That has not  happened. That is unconscionable because people in this country are  hurting.