Trump Administration


Mrs. MURRAY. I thank the Senator from Oregon.

First, let me just commend you for what you are doing here throughout  the night, throughout today, calling attention to a really critical  issue in this country.

So many people have come up to me, you know, because we go back and  forth to the west coast all the time--how many people walk up to us and  say: What can I do about this? And each one of us has to say: Here is  what I can do.

I want to thank you for doing what you are doing today because you  are going above and beyond to point out to people that, as your chart  says, authoritarianism is here, and it is here now. We can ignore it,  or we can speak out.

You have spent all night long and all day standing on your feet at, I  am sure,  great personal sacrifice to fight for everyone in this country and to  sound the alarms, as you have been talking about. So I just personally  want to thank you.

I want to reiterate something that you have said for all of these  hours and, actually, many times to me over the past few months--the  fact that Trump is using his place in government to control every  aspect of our lives, whether it is what our schools are teaching or not  teaching; it is whether or not he is prosecuting his enemies, which he  is doing; it is cutting off projects and funding to punish the  political opposition.

You and I both know--we represent blue States, but we have a lot of  red counties and cities and neighborhoods. Even within all of our blue  districts--you can't just randomly say ``I am hurting blue'' without  hurting the red because these are all Americans. But he is using his  power to do that.

We are seeing him, as you know well in your home State, deploying  troops to intimidate Democrats. I listened to you late last night talk  about what is happening in Portland. The misuse of this kind of power  should be frightening to every single American. We need to stand up,  and we need to call it out, which is what you are doing today. Even  dictating what late night TV hosts are doing is part of this whole  picture that you have been describing.

But I came to the floor today as your partner on the Appropriations  Committee. We serve on that together. We all know in this body how  important that committee is because we decide where the funding is  going to go in the country.

I have been out on this floor, I have been at home, and I have been  everywhere talking about the power of the purse, which sounds kind of  like this quaint little phrase, but it is really important. For anybody  who has a family, you know that the person who writes the checks in the  checkbook decides where the money is going to go. Well, that power of  the checkbook--that power of the purse, as it is called--lands on this  side of the White House and the Congress. We have the power of the  purse. Why is that? Because we represent our constituents from across  the country--I, from Washington State; you, from Oregon. People from  Illinois and Alabama and Florida all come here to be a voice for their  constituents on where their tax dollars are going to go.

Within this country, the power of the purse means we have the ability  to decide where the money is going to go because we represent our  constituents. That is what they call on us to do.

I am seeing Trump do an all-out assault on Congress's power of the  purse, so I wanted to come here today and ask you your thoughts on how  this President is undermining the power of the purse and how it plays  into your ringing the bells about authoritarianism.

Ringing the alarm bells for the authoritarian takeover.

The power of the purse is one of those fundamental ways that, in  fact, the President is concentrating his power.

The difference between a democracy is that--in a democracy, the  legislature says: Here are the programs, here is how we want to run  them, and here is how we are going to fund them. It brings together the  collective wisdom of a large group that comes from every portion of the  Nation, like we do here--100 Senators from 50 States. We not only bring  our geographic differences; we bring our life differences and our life  skills. All of that helps us form a pretty complex set of decisions  about the programs that need more support because of the challenges we  are facing as a nation at that moment and those that can do with less  support. That is our responsibility. But all those voices together are  just so central to that.

In an authoritarian nation, all of that responsibility--design the  program, fund the program, choose whether the program will live or  die--is all transferred to the executive. So we are thinking,  authoritarianism is over here, and the power of the purse is with the  executive; democracy is over here, and the power of the purse is with  legislature.

Russell Vought, the current head of OMB, is a well-trained, clever  man, and he is saying: Well, let's see how we can actually take the  power of the purse. You passed a bill for fiscal year 2025, and now we  are in--we are no longer in fiscal, but let's say we were. Well, maybe  I can just slow-walk the funds for the programs I don't want to fund.  That way, the decision is transferred to the Executive. Maybe I can  freeze them. Maybe I can impound them, basically permanently take them  off the table, see if I can get away with that. Maybe I can send over a  request to have Congress formally undo the programs they have funded.

They did send one of those over, and it was voted on. It needed a  majority vote in both Chambers. But the problem with that is you have a  bipartisan vision to serve the entire--these desks to me are now  representing the geography of the United States--to serve the entire  breadth and depth of our Nation, with all of our differences. Then, on  a partisan basis, meaning half the room, they decide what programs to  cut. That means a deal was done in the beginning between Democrats and  Republicans, and then it was undone. The programs that were cut were  the programs, by and large, the Democrats had advocated for. How do you  do the next deal in that situation?

Then we have Mr. Vought saying: What I will do is pretend I am going  to spend it, but then in the last 45 days, I will send a notification  that I would like Congress to undo it. But there is a waiting period,  so therefore I know what I have done is set it up so that before those  45 days are up, the end of the fiscal year comes, and that bucket that  goes to that program goes poof into thin air.

That is the fancy term that is used, ``pocket rescission.''

So here we are saying to our Republican colleagues: If you negotiated  in good faith to serve the interests and concerns that all hundred  Senators bring here, than a bill forged in that bipartisan manner can  only be done in a bipartisan manner.

We do rescissions in a bipartisan manner. We do undo funding. We take  1-year, 2-year, 3-year funding that turned out not to be needed or  better spent elsewhere, and we pull it back, and we put it into a  different program. But we do that readjustment in the same bipartisan  way we did the initial program.

We are saying to our colleagues across the aisle, if the power of the  purse means something--and it does: the difference between an  authoritarian government and a democracy--then work with us to defend  our Constitution, defend that what we have done together cannot be  undone by the Executive.

So far, we have not received a ``Yes, we will defend the  Constitution.'' What I hear is mainly ``Yeah, President Trump would  never go for that.'' When you hear that, you know you are trapped in  authoritarianism because the vision of our Nation is that we the  Congress will forge these programs and decide how to fund them, how  much. And when it is like ``Can't do that because Trump would be  upset,'' well, that just confirms that we are in authoritarianism now.  And it is not just the power of the purse, of course; it is an attack  on due process; it is an attack on free press; it is an attack on  freedom of speech; it is the weaponization of the Department of  Justice; it is the ignoring the laws that apply to the Executive  completely, like firing all of the IGs and getting rid of all of the  referees.

In the book that I really spent the night trying to use as a  framework in order to say, hey, experts have studied how democracies  die--they don't die with people with guns anymore; they die with people  who get elected, and then they follow the authoritarian playbook on how  to basically undo the checks and balances and amplify the power.

And another piece of that, that we should be very concerned about in  the Northwest right now--more in Portland, but who knows what happens  in Seattle--is trying to carve a path in which Trump has court  rescissions that say he can put troops into the street whenever he  wants. And that is a massively dangerous amplification of authoritarian  power, and that is why what we do this year makes such a difference.

And we have to protest and say this is not normal. We have to ring  the alarm bells. We have to praise the 7 million people who got out  there and said: No Kings in the United States. And that is such a  beautiful, short way of saying: No authoritarianism; we  want our Republic back, and we are going to fight to make that happen.

Mrs. MURRAY. And we want our voices to be heard. That is what you are  doing, and I thank the Senator from Oregon for all he has been doing  for so long, for so many years, but especially for the last 20-plus  hours that you have been on the floor--

Mrs. MURRAY.--too many hours on the floor, reminding us all of why  this is so critical.