Cuts to Forest Service Endanger Millions


Mr. WHITESIDES. Mr. Speaker, my name is George Whitesides, and I  represent California's 27th Congressional District.

Just 3 days after I was sworn in to Congress to serve my first term  this year, wildfires broke out across southern California, forcing  200,000 people to evacuate, burning over 57,000 acres of land, damaging  or destroying 18,000 homes, and taking the lives of 30 individuals.

Two weeks later, the Hughes fire erupted in my own district near  Castaic, right near where this picture behind me was taken. It forced  over 30,000 people to evacuate.

Compared to most, we were relatively lucky. Given wind conditions and  the brave work of our firefighters, many of whom were employed by the  U.S. Forest Service, the fire was quickly contained.

As southern California began to emerge from the devastation and focus  on rebuilding, firefighters and other fire service workers with the  U.S. Forest Service were abruptly terminated by the Trump  administration. Days or weeks after saving our lives, they were left  out to dry with no explanation.

One of these employees in my own district was Jasmin Dominguez, a GIS  technician, who literally mapped out the fires as they spread. I  brought Jasmin as my guest to the State of the Union where we talked  about how difficult it would be for local fire chiefs to control the  fires without the maps that she provided.

Now, we are preparing to go into another bad fire season. People are  scared. If you look at the conditions on the ground in the American  West, they are very concerning. Fire scientists are concerned.  Firefighters are concerned. Between the January fires and the extreme  dryness that we have experienced this winter, we are poised to  experience earlier and more intense wildfires than before.

The worst thing that we could do for our communities that have  already suffered so much is to reduce our capacity to fight and contain  these fires when, not if, they occur.

The unconscionable and, frankly, offensive decision to terminate our  Forest Service workers will make us less safe and more vulnerable to  the natural disasters that we are guaranteed to experience.

The administration may claim that firefighters were exempt from their  cuts, but we know this is not true. I am in constant communication with  Federal wildfire community members, and here is what they tell me.  Their grants have been frozen; existing agreements with the Federal  Government, frozen; purchasing cards that they use to buy lifesaving  equipment, frozen.

Hiring for fire season is often cyclical, meaning the Trump  administration's earlier decision to freeze Federal hiring left even  our local fire stations understaffed and unprepared for the fire season  that has already started.

For the safety of the families and the individuals across all of our  districts, and for the brave work that so many of these Forest Service  employees do every day, we must speak out against these unfair  terminations.

To every Forest Service worker who is laid off and for everyone  preparing to undergo even more of these so-called reductions in  workforce, know that we hear you, are with you, and are fighting for  you.