-9999


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I have been thinking about the last time I  was in an airplane. It was mid-March. One of the many great things  about my State is I can drive back and forth in the car for 6 hours.  The last time I was in an airplane was mid-March. That day in mid- March, South Korea had 90 diagnosed cases of coronavirus. On the other  side of the world, in the United States of America, we had 90 cases of  coronavirus. 

  Since then, fewer than 300 South Koreans have died. Their  unemployment rate is under 4 percent. More than 110,000 Americans have  been killed by this virus, and our unemployment rate is the worst since  the Great Depression. This isn't because South Korea has smarter  scientists or because  South Korea has better doctors or because South Korea has harder  workers. It is because of leadership. 

  Of course, Mr. President, you know because you ran against him. You  know the President is going to deny responsibility. He is going to  point fingers. He is going to blame others. It is what he did as a  failed businessman. It is what he did as a TV celebrity. It is what he  did as a Presidential candidate running against you, and it is what he  has done as President. It is his whole life. He has denied  responsibility. He pointed fingers. He has blamed others. My colleagues  all know that the buck never stops in this Oval Office. 

  But what is disappointing is the whisper-in-the-woods silence and  feet-in-concrete inaction on the part of so many of my friends this  side of the aisle. We know the President's playbook is to divide, to  distract, to play to race, to divide the country and distract from his  failed leadership. So far, it has marginally been ``like President,  like Senator.'' 

  Yesterday, the President started attacking a private citizen whom he  is supposed to serve, spreading conspiracy theories about a 75-year-old  man peacefully protesting for change. What was my colleagues' reaction?  It was the same whisper-in-the-woods silence, the same feet-in-concrete  inaction, the hiding behind a column, behind a desk, hiding behind a  post, hiding from the media. When the free press tried to ask them  about it, when one journalist even printed out a copy of the  President's statement, some of my colleagues physically refused to look  at it. 

  You might be able to escape to your office in this building, but you  can't ignore the people in cities and towns and neighborhoods in your  State--in all of our States--who are demanding change. You can't ignore  the people whom we serve. I implore my colleagues to listen to the  calls for change. The President may ignore them. When he is not  dividing, he is ignoring what citizens want to do, but we can do better  in the Senate. We can step in to fill that leadership void. We can  answer those calls for change. We can tackle the problems we face as a  country. 

  We can start with the proposed solutions my colleagues and I have  introduced to help people get through this pandemic. We have a rental  assistance bill to help people pay their bills and stay in their home.  Can you imagine anything worse than when the unemployment benefit runs  out at the end of July? 

  In the State of Texas, there are twice as many. In my State alone,  there are more than a million people unemployed. They are not all going  to get called back to work by the end of July. If the unemployment  benefit stops, as a number of people and Senator McConnell seem to want  it to, there will be evictions. There will be a wave of evictions and  people losing their apartments. Can you imagine anything more ludicrous  in the middle of a pandemic than that people are put on the streets or  people are forced to move in with a cousin in an already-crowded second  floor apartment? Do you think that is not going to spread this pandemic  even worse 

  We have to have a rental assistance bill. We have a plan to put more  money in people's pockets so they can stay afloat and keep spending in  our communities. We have a plan to actually protect workers on the job  so they feel safe going back to work. 

  Yesterday, in committee, the Secretary of Labor told us there have  been 5,000 workplace complaints against employers by employees saying  their workplace wasn't safe. Do you know how many citations the  Department of Labor issued? One. There were 5,000 complaints and 1  citation. The Department of Labor is supposed to represent--surprise-- labor, not corporate interests who have corporate leaders who have no  interest in keeping their workplace safe. 

  We have a plan to truly scale up testing in this country so we can  begin the real test-trace-isolate plan we need to reopen safely. Leader  McConnell, the leader of this body, the Republican leader--elected, I  assume, unanimously by his Republican caucus--says he sees no urgency.  Those are his words. He sees no urgency on any of this. 

  We also have solutions to begin to finally tackle systemic racism  that puts Black and Brown American lives at risk. This week my  Democratic colleagues and I joined Senator Booker and Senator Harris to  introduce legislation to make real meaningful reforms on how we do  policing in this country. Americans of both parties agree we need to  rethink the role of the police and how we invest our tax dollars in  education, healthcare, and housing, and so much else. 

  I am also introducing a resolution declaring racism a public health  emergency. Let's be clear: This pandemic and racism in America are not  separate problems. They are intimately connected. A headline in the  Atlantic put it well: ``The Coronavirus Was an Emergency Until Trump  Found Out Who Was Dying.'' 

  It is disproportionately Black and Brown Americans dying of this  virus. It is Black and Brown workers who have been on the job for  months, exposing themselves to the virus so grocery stores stay stocked  and packages keep getting delivered and hospital linens keep getting  changed. It is Black and Brown communities grieving the losses of their  friends and neighbors. 

  Here is what I wish more of my colleagues would understand: They are  our neighbors too. Breonna Taylor was our neighbor. George Floyd was  our neighbor. The 110,000 Americans who have died of this virus were  our neighbors. 

  Some of you expressed words of sympathy. Thank you for that. Some of  you issued statements saying you want to see reform and you will not  tolerate racism. All of you wish the President would stop tweeting. But  those words aren't good enough. People are dying. Platitudes and press  releases don't get us very far. They are not enough. You need to put  actions behind your words. 

  It is time for colleagues to join us to pass real solutions. It is  time to stand up to Leader McConnell and say: Let us do our jobs. 

  President Trump is not doing his job; that is for sure. Leader  McConnell is not doing his job; that is for sure. It is time for all of  us in this body to do our job. 

  It is time to stand up to the President, to use every ounce of  leverage we all have to stop the racism, to stop the division, to stop  inciting violence. There is a leadership void in this country. I am  waiting for my colleagues to join us to fill it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT