Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I applaud the work of Senator Murkowski,  who is perhaps uniquely qualified here to find ways of doing bipartisan  work. I applaud her for her efforts on this bill and other things.                                   Housing  

  Mr. President, for too many people, hard work isn't paying off. Even  people with supposedly middle-class jobs don't feel stable. Wages are  flat, the cost of everything is up: healthcare, childcare, college,  prescription drugs, and especially housing. When you love this country,  you fight for the people who make it work. You fight for dignity of  work, but you can't talk about dignity of work without tackling the  biggest item in most family's budget: housing. 

  Dignity of work means living with dignity, whether you write a rent  check or pay a mortgage, whether you are saving for a down payment or  just looking for a safe place to lay down your head at night, whether  you live in a city or a suburb, in Hamilton County where my colleague,  Senator Portman, who is in the Chamber, lives, in Richland County,  where I grew up, a medium-sized city or a rural community. 

  Fundamentally, we all pretty much want the same thing: a place that  is safe in a community where we care about, where we can get to work  and our children have a chance to have a good school with room for our  family, whether that is three kids, an aging parent, or beloved pet--in  our case, our dogs Franklin and Walter. You should get to define what  home looks like for you. You should be able to find it. You should be  able to afford it without crippling stress every single month when the  rent check is due or when your mortgage payment is due. 

  People feel like that is out of reach, even when they work hard and  do everything right. Right now, a quarter of renters, one out of four  renters, spend more than half their income on housing. Think of that.  One out of four renters pay more than half of their income on housing.  If one thing goes wrong in their life--their car breaks down, their  child gets sick, they get laid off from work for 1 week, they need to  repair the roof--one thing goes wrong and their life turns upside down.  Seven out of the ten fastest growing jobs in this country don't pay  enough for a two-bedroom apartment. We know housing is central to every  aspect of family's lives. 

  Matthew Desmond is the author of ``Evicted,'' a book I have spoken  about on this floor in the past and to people all over my State and  around the country. Matthew Desmond's book is ``Evicted.'' I asked him  to come in. I bought his book and brought in a number of Senators to  listen to him. When inscribing his book, he wrote: ``Home equals  life.'' If you don't have a decent, safe, clean, affordable place to  live, your life is so often turned upside down. The housing crisis  affects different families in different ways, but it touches pretty  much everyone. 

  A safe, stable home is the foundation for opportunity. It determines  where your kids go to school. It determines how far you have to travel  to get to work. It determines where you go shopping. It determines  whether you feel safe walking around at night. 

  We know where you live, maybe most importantly, affects the quality  of your healthcare. It affects your education, your job opportunities-- where you live affects your life expectancy. Housing stress affects  people with all kinds of jobs in all parts of the country. That is why  I have been holding roundtables all over my State, beginning over the  past 2 weeks, to talk with Ohioans about their struggle with housing  and what we can do to make it easier for everyone to find and afford a  home. 

  So far, I have done roundtables in Toledo and Youngstown, Western  Ohio, and Eastern Ohio. I heard from Ohioans about the challenges that  too many people face. We heard about how interconnected housing is with  other issues in people's lives. We heard about wages that don't keep up  with the cost of living, how housing instability can affect your stress  levels and your health, and how hard it can be to get financing to buy  a house or start a business in neighborhoods that have been left  behind. 

  In Youngstown and Toledo, we heard about the power shady landlords  have on tenants and predatory lease-to-own land contracts. People also  talked about how up-front costs aren't just an issue about the down  payment you make on buying a home to get a mortgage, but if you rent,  you often have to have the first month's rent, last month's rent, and a  security deposit. That could be a huge obstacle to so many moderate and  low-income families. 

  Forty percent--this number is stunning--40 percent of Americans say  they can't come up with $400 in an emergency. Forty percent of  Americans can't come up with $400 in emergency. When it is that hard  for so many people to save, a deposit could seem just impossible. 

  We can't untangle many of these issues from the legacy of redlining  and decades of bad public policy decisions by Members, I would  acknowledge, from both parties, at all levels of government that have  systemically denied people of color the ability to choose where they  live and build wealth for homeownership. 

  More than half of African Americans and Latino renters are spending  more than 30 percent of their income on housing. More than half of  people of color spend 30 percent or more on their housing, making them  much more likely to have a high housing cost burdens than White seniors  have had. That means Black and Latino families have less to spend on  healthcare, less to spent on food, less to spend on transportation. It  is not just about differences in income, which are all very real. 

  More than 50 years after we passed the Fair Housing Act to prohibit  discrimination in housing, African Americans make up 13 percent of the  population, and 21 percent of the people experiencing poverty in this  country are African American, but 40 percent of the people experiencing  homelessness are African American. 

  Think about that. There are 21 percent of people who are experiencing  poverty, but there are 40 percent of people who are experiencing  homelessness. That tells you this isn't just about income. We have  talked to people who are homeless, but none of us gets out as much as  we should, as President Lincoln said, to get our public opinion bath.  We don't talk to people like that enough, but when we do, we learn that  so many people who are homeless have jobs. The jobs don't pay much, and  they may be part time. People may also cobble together two jobs, but  they are still homeless. 

  We see the same thing when we look at homeownership. The African- American homeownership rate is 30 percent below the White homeownership  rate. Analysts have tried to explain this with income and education,  but that doesn't tell the whole story. Something more troubling is  going on. With everything else being equal, similarly situated African  Americans are less likely to own homes than their similarly situated  White counterparts. That is a legacy of redlining, and that is a legacy  of racial exclusion at work. It may be in Arkansas, and it may be in  Ohio. It is all over this country. 

  From 1934 through 1962--get this--98 percent of all FHA mortgages  went to White homeowners. We were a country that was, probably, 85-87  percent White, but 90 percent of all FHA mortgages went to White  homeowners. That is not just a problem of the past. Housing is how  people build wealth for generations. Yet, with there being millions of  families struggling to afford housing, with the massive disparities and  access to housing, this administration is turning its back on families,  communities, and communities of color. 

  For 3 years, President Trump has been trying to undermine the Fair  Housing Act of 1968. I spoke about this on the floor last week with  Mitt Romney, the Senator from Utah. Senator Romney's father was  President Nixon's Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and he  worked very hard to implement the Fair Housing Act. He made a lot of  progress in 1969 and 1970, but so much of that progress is now being  scaled back. That landmark civil rights law made discrimination of the  sale, rental, and financing of housing illegal for the first time. It  was supposed to set us on the path of being a country in which everyone  could find a safe, stable home--regardless of one's gender and  regardless of one's race--and have access to opportunity. 

  Yet, instead of getting us closer, the Trump administration is making  things worse. It is trying to make it harder to root out policies and  practices that have a hidden discriminatory effect on people by its  cutting the decades-old disparate impact standard. The administration  is rolling back the 2015 HUD rule that would have finally implemented  the Fair Housing Act's requirement that we affirmatively further fair  housing throughout our communities. 

  President Trump's budget will only make the affordable housing crisis  worse for families who are struggling in every community in this  country. The administration would eliminate the funds that communities  use to create and preserve affordable housing and that make  homeownership possible for working families. The Community Development  Block Grant is an example, as is the HOME Investment Partnership  Program. 

  The administration wants to cut the already insufficient Federal  rental assistance we have. It wants to get rid of the funding for the  housing trust fund and capital magnet fund--even though this funding  comes from the GSEs, the government-sponsored enterprises, and not the  Federal budget--to make it still harder to build homes and apartments  that people can actually afford. 

  To add insult to injury, the Trump administration proposes to make  mortgages more expensive for working families in order to reduce the  deficit that it created. We know we have trillion-dollar deficits now,  even in times of growth with the economy, because of the tax cut that  went overwhelmingly to the rich. The administration made these  mortgages more expensive for working families in order to reduce the  deficit it created and to supposedly level the playing field for Wall  Street, as if Wall Street doesn't have enough advantages without our  continuing to shovel money to it. 

  We need to fight back. Any economic policy that doesn't put housing  front and center ignores a family's biggest expense and biggest need.  We see housing problems in Appalachian Ohio or in Toledo or in big  coastal cities or in small towns. It is clear this is a national  problem that needs a national response. 

  I will keep hosting roundtables around Ohio so as to hear directly  from Ohioans about the struggles they face. I invite Ohioans to go to  my website, Brown.senate.gov, to share their stories about housing.  They can do it with their names attached, or they can do it  anonymously, but we value these stories. We have already gotten  hundreds just out of these two roundtables, and with the attention  around the roundtables, we have gotten hundreds of many heartbreaking  stories and instructive stories and ideas for changes. 

  We need to hear your struggles, and we need to hear your ideas. 

  Congress cannot ignore these challenges. Whether people are in small  towns or big cities, we cannot just let the administration take away  the tools that we have and that we have used for years to try to make  this better and to make people's lives better. If we want to make this  country work better for everyone, we cannot shrink from these  challenges. When work has dignity and when people live their lives with  dignity, everyone can find and afford a safe place to call home. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT