Budget Proposal


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, thank you, and I thank the Republican  leader. 

  Last month, while this body was trying, as we know--and failing--to  hold the President accountable for betraying the American people,  President Trump went to Davos, and he doubled down on another betrayal  of the American people. 

  While he was hobnobbing with the global elite in Switzerland, he let  slip his plan, after his tax handouts to billionaires and corporations  blew up the deficit--we know deficits now. Thanks to Republican  governing, thanks to  this President's tax cut and my Republican colleagues going along with  this tax cut that went overwhelmingly to the wealthiest people in this  country, the budget deficit has just skyrocketed. We know all that.  President Trump now wants to pay for it by cutting Social Security and  Medicare. He wants to pay for it by cutting Social Security and  Medicare. 

  Today we got President Trump's budget. This document makes it clear  how he wants to pay for his tax scam--on the backs of working families  and seniors. 

  I want to start with one that is of special interest in Ohio. We all  know that just in the last 2 or 3 years--well, starting soon after  President Trump was elected and then over about a year-and-a-half  period, the Lordstown auto plant--about 4,500 jobs--shut down.  President Trump had promised those workers--he said to Mahoning Valley:  Don't sell your homes. These jobs are coming back. This is going to  work for us. And then the President Trump did absolutely nothing. The  third shift was laid off. The second shift laid was off. The first  shift was laid off. The plant closed, and there were 4,500 lost jobs. 

  I have been working with Senator Portman--my Republican colleague-- and others on getting somebody to come into that plant. It will not  just be the 4,500 good UAW jobs, but it could be, potentially, a good  many jobs. There was a loan program that we and this company were going  to use to make sure they could, if you will, reindustrialize part of  the Lordstown complex. Well, the President's budget axed that plan,  that loan program. We were counting on that as a way to replace some of  those jobs that the President of the United States promised would come  back, and now we can't even count on that. There is that. 

  Then, in addition to the cuts to Medicare and Social Security, he is  taking a sledgehammer to Medicaid, to food stamps, to investments in  infrastructure, and support for rural communities and small towns. He  wants to make it harder to clean up our drinking water and stop  polluters. 

  At a time when one in four renters spends more than half of their  income in housing, he wants to make it harder to help families find and  afford loans for a home. Pretty much the only ones who escaped  unscathed, the only ones the President's budget acts didn't hit:  corporations and their wealthy, unaccountable CEOs. To fund their tax  cuts--again, the tax cuts 2 years ago--70 percent of the tax cuts went  to the wealthiest 1 percent of people in this country. To pay for those  tax cuts that have exploded the Federal budget deficit--you don't have  to be an accountant like my friend from Wyoming to understand what has  happened to this deficit--President Trump wants to ask more from  families struggling to make ends meet, the families he promised to  fight for, the families he has betrayed. He wants to ask more of  seniors and people with disabilities and students and kids who need  healthcare, all to pay for this tax scam.  

  President Trump sold us a tax cut for working people, but the jig is  up. We know people aren't seeing more money in their paychecks. People  see Trump's tax scam for what it really was: a giveaway to corporations  and the wealthiest, tiny sliver of the population. 

  Remember the promises the President made that his tax law would mean  raises for workers? He said it over and over. I was in the President's  Cabinet room with the President and a handful of Senators from both  parties. He promised, before it passed, With this tax bill, everybody  will get a $4,000 raise, he said--well, not exactly true. 

  He told workers last year, the month after he signed the law, You are  going to start seeing a lot more money in your paycheck. 

  One lie after another lie after another lie. Instead of investing in  workers, corporations bought back trillions--literally, trillions--of  dollars of their own stock to line investors' pockets. Meanwhile, the  deficit exploded. 

  We know what the corporate crowd's plan always is to deal with the  deficit, every single time: cut taxes, blow a hole in the deficit, and  then go back and pay for it by cuts to Social Security and Medicare.  How do we know that is what they are going to do? Because they told us  that is what they are going to do. In spring 2017, right after  President Trump was elected, the Wall Street Journal ran an op-ed by  economist Martin Feldstein, who has built his career pushing tax cuts  for his rich friends. 

  Guess how he wanted President Trump to pay for his corporate  giveaway? In those days, the President said, We will have so much  economic growth that it will pay for itself. Well, the economic growth  has been less in these 3 years of Trump than in the last 3 years of  Obama, but that is not the point. The point is he said it would pay for  itself. 

  Well, Martin Feldstein didn't believe that. He knew. He said in this  article that it will not pay for itself; it will pay a little bit. But  he said the best way to do it is raise the Social Security retirement  age. It looks like President Trump was listening to Martin Feldstein. 

  It always comes back to whose side are you on. You stand with  workers, or you stand with corporations. You stand with insurance  companies, or you stand with patients. You stand with Wall Street, or  you stand with consumers. 

  Do you fight for Wall Street wealth? Or do you fight for the dignity  of work? If you love this country, you fight for the people who make it  work. The President promised to fight for American workers and their  families. This budget he released today is the latest in a long line of  broken promises and betrayals. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT