Casey, Brown Release Statements on Commerce Decision Impacting AK Steel-Cleveland Cliffs


U.S. Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) are releasing statements following the U.S. Department of Commerce's decision impacting AK Steel-Cleveland Cliffs:

"This is a positive but long overdue step which must now be carried through to ensure the United States does not lose its last remaining electrical steel manufacturer. For two years, I have been calling on this Administration to take action on electrical steel cores and laminations. I'm glad they're finally paying attention to an issue on which several Senators have repeatedly urged action," said Senator Casey. "Last week, Senator Brown and I spoke directly to Secretary Ross and pressed that Commerce take action, and I will continue to push for a swift completion to this review."

"For more than two years, Sen. Casey and I have been pushing the Administration to take action against unfair steel imports that threaten Ohio jobs," said Brown. "I'm glad the Trump Administration has finally decided to launch a 232 investigation on behalf of the workers at Cleveland Cliffs. But this is just the start, and an investigation by itself won't save these jobs. I urge the Administration to complete the investigation as soon as possible and to take all actions necessary to ensure these workers are able to compete on a level playing field." 

Senator Casey has consistently advocated for AK Steel and workers around the region. Below is a timeline of his work on the issue:

February 13, 2018: Senator Casey raised concerns and asked for action on AK Steel and electrical steel directly to the President at the White House, in advance of the 232 announcement. At that meeting multiple Senators raised concerns about electrical steel.

March 7, 2018: Before the 232 was finalized, Senator Casey sent a letter to the President with Senators Portman and Brown raising concern about a loophole in the 232 for electrical steel. The Senators urged the Administration to take additional action to cover electrical steel cores and laminations in the 232.

June 20, 2018: Senator Casey asked Secretary Ross to take action on downstream electrical steel products at a Finance Committee Hearing. At that hearing, Secretary Ross assured Senator Casey that downstream electrical steel products (such as cores and laminations) would be included "very shortly" in the 232. "I  believe  there  is  no  doubt  that  they  [downstream electrical steel products] will  be  included."

October 31, 2019: Senator Casey sent a letter with Senators Portman and Brown to USTR Lighthizer asking USTR initiate a surge investigation on imports of electrical steel cores and laminates from Mexico and Canada.

April 25, 2020: Senator Casey spoke with White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows.

May 1, 2020: Senators Casey and Brown spoke with Commerce Secretary Ross.