CNN "State of the Union" - Transcript:  Interview With Sen. Sherrod Brown


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

The full Senate is expected to vote this week on whether to agree to call witnesses now or defer a decision until later in the trial.

Joining me now is a juror in the Senate trial, Ohio Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown.

Senator, thank you for joining us this Sunday. SEN. SHERROD BROWN (D-OH): Good to be with you, Brianna. Thank you

for having me.

KEILAR: You and Democrats, you want witnesses. You want witnesses in the Senate trial now. And Republicans are unanimous, even if they don't want witnesses, that, if there are witnesses, they would come later.

Would you vote against any rules package that doesn't include calling witnesses now?

BROWN: Yes, I don't know -- I don't know how you justify not calling witnesses and not introducing new information, if it's -- if it's related to this trial that has an impact on it.

I'm not a lawyer. And -- but I and the whole country overwhelmingly understands you have -- the prosecutor is the House managers. The defense is the president's lawyers, including some of the people you have interviewed.

And then you have -- for a real trial, you have witnesses, and you have new evidence or -- and everybody understands that it's a sham trial without it. And I don't know how they make the case.

And I hear the president over and over saying that the House was unfair, that it's all hearsay. Well, then bring in the people who were in the room. If the president's innocent, then they will exonerate him, and we will all vote not to convict.

But bring the people, bring the eyewitnesses that were in the room when the infraction -- I mean, it's clear the president was undermining democracy, what he did. There's little doubt in people's minds.

But before I know how I'm going to vote, I want to hear the president's side. But I also want to hear witnesses and see the new evidence.

KEILAR: So you will vote against something that does not include a chance to see witnesses straight away?

You just heard Alan Dershowitz. He is a lawyer. And, obviously, he's key in this defense team. He said that, if there are witnesses, even later, on the part of Democrats -- you want to hear, for instance, from John Bolton -- there will then be witnesses, he would expect, called by Republicans.

They can easily call Hunter Biden. Are you prepared for that?

BROWN: Fine.

I think you bring in -- we're taking -- we take the position that we want to hear from witnesses. I don't know what Hunter Biden has to do with the phone call that was made...

KEILAR: But you're fine hearing from him? BROWN: ... or the -- I'm fine with hearing -- I mean, I understand I -- I'm not a lawyer. I understand both sides get to call witnesses.

I'm not sure that a lot of Republicans think -- I mean, I think many Republicans think that's a distraction. That's what Republican senators tell me quietly.

Republican senators also quietly tell me this president is a bigot and tell me this president lies a lot. They don't say that publicly. But I guess that's beside the point for this trial.

But the facts are, we -- the point is, we need witnesses. We need to know who they are, and with the right to call witnesses, additional witnesses, later.

But I don't understand how you can, to the American public, make the case that this is a real trial if there are no witnesses and there is no new evidence.

Just look at the GAO report last week that Senator Van Hollen asked for.

KEILAR: Let -- but I want to ask -- I want to ask you about Lev Parnas, one of the indicted...

BROWN: Sure.

KEILAR: ... associates of Rudy Giuliani.

Do you want him to testify?

BROWN: I'm not -- I assume we want him to testify.

I know we want Bolton. I know we want people who were in the room. I don't have strong feelings yet, until I hear from the House managers and what they want to see.

But I assume, why not have witnesses that have a lot of information about this? So I think Parnas makes sense.

I find it interesting that all of these are Trump friends, all of them, many of them, appointed by Trump. And he does -- the president doesn't want these people to testify? And they were in the room.

And Parnas is also an ally. And Parnas obviously...

KEILAR: Well, Republicans -- Republicans would -- he's got a lot of documents, some of which seem like they would very much benefit Democrats.

But some Republicans, even -- Alan Dershowitz has basically said, have Lev Parnas on. This is someone who's a very complicated witness, is a way that you could understand it. And this is someone who could actually backfire on Democrats.

But what would you want to know from him? BROWN: Well, I don't think the right -- the right analysis is, does

it backfire?

The analysis should be, who's going to bring new information to the trial? Who's going to shed light in the dark corners of what happened? Who was in the room? Who had firsthand information?

If it backfires, and it shows the president is innocent, then that's what happens in trials. We -- I go into this -- unlike McConnell and Graham, I go in -- Lindsey Graham and Leader McConnell -- I don't go in with a preconceived notion.

[09:25:05]

I thought the president should have been impeached, because, clearly, he tried to -- he offered a bribe. He tried to bribe a foreign official for his own campaign.

But before I decide how I vote next week or the following week or next month or whenever it is, I owe it to taking that oath to listen to the evidence, listen to the president's response, and listen to witnesses.

So, no matter what the witnesses say, we still ought to have them. I don't know what Bolton is going to say. I don't know what Parnas would say. I don't know what others in the room would say.

But they will shine light on a process. And, again, I'm not a lawyer.

KEILAR: Sure.

BROWN: How do you -- I don't understand why you wouldn't want more information and more illumination of this very, very, very important trial.

KEILAR: It is very important.

I want to turn now to the presidential campaign. Senator Warren says Senator Sanders told her during a 2018 meeting -- you're familiar with this -- that a woman couldn't win the election.

Sanders denies that, but take a listen to this tense exchange after the CNN debate on Tuesday night.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think you called me a liar on national TV?

SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What?

WARREN: I think you called me a liar on national TV?

SANDERS: No.

Let's not do it right now. You want to have that discussion, we will have that discussion. You called me a liar. You told me -- all right, let's not do it now.

TOM STEYER (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't get in the middle of it.

I just want to say, hi, Bernie.

SANDERS: Yes, good. OK.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KEILAR: All right, so you have served closely for years with both of these senators. What do you make of this?

(LAUGHTER)

BROWN: I stand with Tom Steyer in just wanting to say hi.

I don't -- I don't know whose -- I think they both heard what they heard. I don't believe for a moment I don't think Bernie thinks that a woman can't win.

I think that, under the pressures of a presidential race, that tempers sometimes flare. I like them both. I have known Bernie since we served in the House together. We came to the Senate on the same day in 2007.

I have worked with Elizabeth when she was working with the Banking Committee as a citizen to try to get the Consumer Bureau. I think we're going to beat Trump, in large part because we're going to make the contrast that we're for working families, and Trump has betrayed workers over and over and over again.

And I'm confident of that.

(CROSSTALK)

KEILAR: I'm sorry to interrupt you, but you say, we're going to win.

Even if it's a woman? You think a woman can win?

BROWN: Oh, yes, absolutely a woman can win, no question.

I think we -- I think the Democrats will nominate somebody. I don't know who it's going to be, if it's going to be a man or a woman. I think there will be a woman on the ticket, for sure, either president or vice president.

And I am confident that, when we make that contrast between Democrats, the party of workers, and Republicans and Trump, the party that has betrayed workers on overtime and minimum wage and trade agreements and in organizing unions and all that, the election will be clear, including in my state.

Trump won my state by 8.5. I want it by 7.5. We will keep those anti- Trump voters and people supporting the Democratic nominee in 2020.

KEILAR: Sherrod Brown, thank you so much for joining us. BROWN: Thanks.

KEILAR: President Trump's legal team.

BROWN: Thanks very much.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT