Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I appreciate the comments of my friend from  Texas. I only heard part of them, but I appreciate his interest and  what we need to do to deal with this coronavirus. I hear so often in  this body that it is about the economic issues, which to be sure it is,  as you know in Utah and Senator Cornyn knows. But when I hear the  President's response on what to do--first, I know that people are angry  in Ohio and I think elsewhere that the President has waited so long to  act.  

  I know people are angry when they find out that the President made  major cuts to the Centers for Disease Control, which the Presiding  Officer knows is the best public health agency probably in the history  of the world, combined with our public health departments at NIH and  the FDA and National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health in  Cincinnati--all of this incredible public health infrastructure safety  net we have built in this country bipartisanly through decades and  decades and decades. 

  I know people are unhappy when they learn about the President  eliminating the position at the White House of the admiral physician  who ran our effort to always be trying to anticipate a public health  outbreak, a pandemic of sorts. I  don't know whether or not we are in one. I don't think we know that. 

  I am not an alarmist or panicky in any way, but I know people realize  we had such a late start on this because of the President's actions  over the last 3 years. 

  The issue is not to bail out more corporations. The issue is not to  give money to the cruise ship companies, for gosh sakes, which is one  part of the President's rhetoric tweet proposals. The cruise ship  industry is almost exclusively foreign-owned. Why take tax dollars and  shovel them into the cruise industry? 

  Instead of focusing on large corporations, which is something the  President always does--I understand that is what he comes from, who he  is, and who his supporters are--instead of focusing there, we should be  focusing on individuals, and that means starting with a sick leave  policy and sick days. 

  Think about how hard it is for all of us in this body--think about  somebody making $12 an hour and living alone or living with a child or  living with a spouse, whoever, making $12 an hour with no benefits and  they get sick. They think, let's see, do I go to work--if I go to work  sick, I may get worse, and I may infect my colleagues and other  employees--or do I stay home and give up that $100 of a $12-an-hour  job? I am paying $700 a month in rent. Can I give up that $100 or $200  or $300 over 2 or 3 days? 

  There are so many Americans who are sick who wrestle with that  decision every single day. This is an opportunity. Senator Murray  worked on a bill. I worked on this bill with her for a good while. I  just spoke with Congresswoman DeLauro from Connecticut about working on  legislation to provide emergency relief right now. We can do this  today. I know the Presiding Officer has been open-minded about things  like this. We can make this bipartisan. We can have immediate 14-day  help as part of our package that we already voted on and then have a  long-term, 7-day sick day policy where you earn those benefits. As you  work, you earn that--up to 7-day sick day policy. Every other  industrialized, wealthy country in the world has it. It makes safer,  healthier workplaces and safer, healthier workers. It will mean good  help and stronger families--all the kinds of things a sick day policy  would mean to our country. 

  I am hopeful that rather than shovel money to corporations, we will  spend that money on individuals, on people, on workers and their  workplace. It could make all the difference in the world, not just in  addressing this coronavirus public health crisis today but in  preventing these kinds of crises in the future. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT