Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from South Dakota. 

  At the conclusion of President Trump's impeachment trial, I heard  some of my Republican colleagues, most of whom I consider my friends,  say that the President would be chastened by impeachment. Some of you  told me you knew what he did was wrong. A number of Republicans told me  they admit that he lies a lot. They would acknowledge extorting an ally  for help in the 2020 Presidential campaign wasn't bad enough to rise to  the level of warranting removal from office--even though Richard Nixon  never did that; even though, just on the face of it, thinking of  soliciting a bribe from a foreign country to help you in your  reelection as President of the United States is worse than untoward. 

  But you told me--many of you on the Republican side--that holding the  trial was enough to check his bad behavior. You said things like this-- and these are quotes, but I will not mention who they were because they  were private conversations. You said: ``I think he has learned he has  to be maybe a little more judicious and careful.'' 

  Some of you said these publicly too. A reporter asked another of you  whether Trump might see acquittal as a license to do it again, and you  responded: I don't think so. 

  One of my colleagues said: ``I think he knows now that, if he is  trying to do certain things . . . he needs to go through the proper  channels.'' 

  Another colleague said: ``The President has been impeached. That's a  pretty big lesson. . . . I believe that he will be more cautious in the  future.'' 

  Well, the President learned a pretty big lesson. The lesson he  learned--because everybody, every single person, from the majority  leader down the hall to every Republican sitting at this  desk and this desk and this desk--every Republican except for Mitt  Romney voted to acquit. Every single Republican voted to acquit, so the  lesson is he can do whatever he wants; he can abuse his office because  he will never, ever be held accountable. 

  One Republican had the courage to stand up and do it. Every other  Republican sitting at these desks said to the President of the United  States: Yeah, it is OK. You have learned your lesson. Yeah, your lesson  is that you can do whatever you want and this body will never, ever  hold you accountable. 

  So do you know what? And I thank the Presiding Officer, by the way.  Do you know what? The President went on what we call a PR tour--a  personal retribution tour--starting at the prayer breakfast--the prayer  breakfast--the next day when he attacked and he attacked and he  attacked all kinds of people, continuing through to his speech in the  East Room where many of my colleagues were in the audience clapping for  the President when the President made these attacks on people. 

  They say he will never do it again; even if we vote to acquit, he  will never do it again. But then they clap for him when he starts his  personal retribution tour. 

  He removed Colonel Vindman, a patriot, a Purple Heart recipient who  spent his life serving our country. He was an immigrant. He left the  Soviet Union. He wanted freedom. He served in our country's military. 

  The President, when he attacked Colonel Vindman, mocked his accent.  He grew up speaking Ukrainian, and his English was damn near perfect  when I have listened to him, but he had a bit of a Ukrainian accent. He  mocked his accent. And then he suggested he could be subject to  military prosecution. 

  He removed Ambassador Sondland, who was a Trump appointee, after he  testified to the quid pro quo. 

  Yesterday, President Trump continued this PR tour--his personal  retribution tour--interfering at the Department of Justice. I am not a  lawyer. I know the Presiding Officer is. Most of my colleagues on both  sides of the aisle are. But they know a President doesn't interfere  with the Department of Justice. As part of his personal retribution  tour, he is interfering there. He is strong-arming appointees to  overrule the decision of career prosecutors. 

  Do you know what? These career prosecutors withdrew in protest. One  of them resigned from the Department--more on that later. 

  Late last night, when the country's eyes were on the primary in New  Hampshire, the President of the United States was on part of this  retribution tour, and my colleagues had said: Oh, no, he has learned  from impeachment. Well, he hasn't. He has learned he can get away with  stuff. He yanked his own Treasury nominee, who was working on terrorist  financing and financial crimes, former U.S. Attorney Jessie Liu, who  had worked as U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia and had worked  on, among other things, oversight of prosecutions from Special Counsel  Mueller's investigations. The Treasury Department has offered zero  explanation. I am going to get a chance in a few minutes to ask the  Treasury Secretary, coming in front of my committee, why they are  withdrawing her nomination 48 hours before her confirmation hearing. 

  We can take a guess at why President Trump pulled down her  nomination. She oversaw the U.S. attorneys prosecuting President  Trump's criminal associates, his political operatives, like Rick Gates,  Michael Flynn, and Roger Stone. 

  This is so obvious. There were people out there who displeased the  President. One of them was doing his public duty. He is career military  and had fled the Soviet Union. He was speaking under oath about what  the President had done because he knew it was wrong to solicit a bribe  from a foreign country. Another was a lawyer that oversaw the  prosecution of some of the President's political operatives and  political hacks--criminals, as it turned out. They oversaw the  prosecution. The President is attacking them. The President is using  his power to attack him. 

  My colleagues--who sit at this desk, and this desk, and this desk,  and this desk on the Senate floor--think it is OK to acquit him and  then tell me that he is going to quit acting the way he acts. 

  No sentient human being, including the Presiding Officer, would  possibly think that way. Ms. Liu was scheduled to testify under oath  before members of both parties at our hearing in the Banking Committee  tomorrow morning. We need answers as to what she would have said. Were  there discussions and decisions she was part of as U.S. attorney  involving the President's associates that he didn't like? Was he afraid  more would come out about the actions of some of the President's  associates, the criminal actions? Was she aware of efforts by the  President and his political appointees to interfere in the operation of  our justice system? We need a swift and thorough DOJ inspector general  investigation of these prosecutorial decisions. 

  With every passing day, we don't see a humbled President. We see a  President unleashed. Again, he didn't learn a lesson from impeachment.  Actually, he learned a lesson from his acquittal. The lesson he learned  is that he can do whatever he wants. He is a President unleashed. He is  bent on turning the arms of a government that is supposed to serve the  American people into his own personal vengeance operation--his own  personal vengeance operation. 

  I implore my colleagues: We can't let that stand. 

  The Department of Justice is supposed to be impartial and immune from  political influence, but it has become no more than a personal weapon,  or it is becoming--it is not there yet, but it started to be--a  personal weapon the President can unleash on his political enemies. 

  As I said, I am not a lawyer, but I know enough to know the  Department of Justice and the executive branch are not there to serve  the President of the United States. The Department of Justice and the  executive branch are there to serve the same people we do--the people  of Ohio, the people of the Presiding Officer's State of Utah, the  people of Maine, Iowa, Tennessee, and every State across this country.  No one--no one--should be above the law. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT