Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, today I will vote to oppose the nomination  of Mr. Brian Montgomery to serve as Deputy Secretary for the Department  of Housing and Urban Development. My vote today is not because I  believe Mr. Montgomery is incapable of doing the job. Across multiple  administrations, Mr. Montgomery has shown himself to be a dedicated  public servant with an impressive understanding of the programs and  policies he would oversee if confirmed. During prior administrations,  Mr. Montgomery demonstrated his commitment to HUD's mission and helped  respond to the early days of the financial crisis. And over the past  year, Mr. Montgomery has done important work strengthening HUD's  reverse mortgage program. 

  But I will vote against Mr. Montgomery's nomination today because,  like too many people in this administration, over the last 2 years he  has helped advance policies that will have devastating effects for  millions of families. In addition to his role as Federal Housing  Commissioner and Assistant Secretary for Housing, Mr. Montgomery began  performing the duties of the Deputy Secretary at HUD nearly a year and  a half ago. Since that time, he was involved in the decision to advance  a revised disparate impact rule that the U.S. Commission on Civil  Rights wrote that it was very concerned would ``impose substantial new  obstacles for victims of discrimination'' and ``undermine the  protections of the Fair Housing Act, thereby substantially undermining  necessary civil rights protection in an area about which the Commission  and its state advisory committees continue to receive compelling  evidence of need for meaningful federal corrective action.'' 

  Mr. Montgomery also helped advance HUD's Housing Finance Reform  Report, which would increase the cost of an FHA-backed loan for those  who can least afford it, restructure FHA in a way that could undermine  HUD funding, and restrict consumers' choice between an FHA and Fannie  Mae or Freddie Mac-backed loan. But when confronted with questions  about these issues that are critical to low- and moderate-income  families, Mr. Montgomery offered little explanation. 

  Throughout Mr. Montgomery's time performing the duties of the Deputy  Secretary--the No. 2 person at HUD--HUD's budget requests have  repeatedly zeroed out critical housing and community development  accounts, like the community developmental block grant, HOME investment  partnerships, and public housing capital funds, while proposing to  raise rents for the lowest income renters. When asked to justify these  disastrous proposals, Mr. Montgomery again offered no explanation. 

  Our Nation is facing an affordable housing crisis and a crisis of  equity across our housing system. Before COVID-19 hit, there was a  nearly 30-point gap between the Black and White home ownership rates,  and more than one in four renters paid more than half of their income  for housing. With COVID-19's economic devastation disproportionately  burdening the lowest income households and communities of color, these  challenges will only grow. 

  We need leaders at HUD who will fight for our housing and community  development programs and the families who depend on them. We need  leaders at HUD who will push for progress and equality in our Nation's  housing system, regardless of race, disability, or family status. We  need leaders at HUD who will advance proposals that support, not  further burden, the lowest income families. Mr. Montgomery has not  shown us a record of fighting for those priorities, and that is why I  cannot support his nomination today. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT