Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I note with some interest that one  Republican colleague after another comes to the floor--their ``protect  the President at all costs'' colleagues, no matter what he does, no  matter what he says, no matter how he acts, no matter how incompetent,  no matter how divisive--and continues to point their fingers at the  Chinese for the coronavirus. God knows, China deserves heaps of blame  for the outbreak in the early spread of the coronavirus. There is no  question they deserve a lot of blame for the outbreak in the early  spread, and they are lying about it. But keep in mind that we are 5  percent of the world's population, and 30 percent of the deaths from  the coronavirus have been Americans. This President continues to make  excuses and point fingers. And the compliant, always obedient,  sheeplike Members of the Republican caucus conference of the Senate  continue to stay quiet, continue to do nothing about this President's  behavior and the 105,000 deaths from coronavirus in this country.                                   Protests  

  Mr. President, the protests around our State, throughout our country,  are an expression of fear and grief and frustration and of anger. Black  communities led the Nation in mourning the killings of George Floyd and  Breonna Taylor over the last week. They are now leading calls for  justice and long-term changes to dismantle the systems of oppression  that hold them back. 

  Instead of listening to those calls from the people who built this  country, instead of offering leadership and rising to meet this  moment--as every one of his predecessors of both parties did in times  of trouble for our country--President Trump fails yet again. Instead of  uniting, he divides. Instead of comforting, he stokes fear. He points  fingers. He places blame. Instead of healing, he rubs salt in the open  wounds of Black Americans. 

  On Monday night, the President of the United States turned the arm of  the state on peaceful protesters--we saw the video--tear-gassing the  citizens he is supposed to serve, all so he could walk across the  street and stage a photo op at a church he doesn't attend and hold up a  Bible that he doesn't read. The timid--you choose the adjective--timid,  cowardly, spineless Republican colleagues in this Senate just remained  silent. How offended they would have been if a Democratic President had  done what this President does and fails to do--the tear-gassing of  citizens he is supposed to serve, the photo op at a church, the holding  up of the Bible he doesn't read, the excuses, the divisiveness, all of  that. 

  People are tired. People are angry: more Black sons and daughters and  mothers and fathers killed by police officers--the very people who are  supposed to protect all Americans; more death, when many are already  grieving--so many in the Black community already grieving the loss of  family members and friends for the coronavirus, grappling with the  economic stress this pandemic has caused. 

  The pandemic has been the ``great revealer.'' We know Black and Brown  communities have been hit hardest by the coronavirus. They are more  likely to get sick. They have less access to healthcare. They make up  the communities hurt by Jim Crow laws and redlining and now the locking  in of those rules and regulations by the Trump administration. Black  and Brown communities disproportionately make up our essential workers.  It is not because they don't work as hard. It is not because of  individual choices. We all work hard. We are all trying to do something  productive for our families and our communities. We all want to build a  better country for our daughters and our sons. No; it is because of a  racist system that is making it harder for their work to pay off and  putting at risk their lives for generations, long before this virus  appeared. 

  A grocery store worker in Cincinnati said to me: They tell me I am  essential, but I feel expendable. I don't feel safe at work, and they  don't pay me very much. I feel expendable. 

  Long before this pandemic, millions of Americans knew we had a system  that treats them like they are expendable. Their hard work isn't paying  off. For some, it feels like the system is broken. For Black and Brown  workers, it never worked to begin with. 

  In the midst of the trauma and the grieving, millions of those same  Americans still go to work day after day, week after week, in grocery  stores, as delivery people, in drugstores, as busdrivers, and the  people who do the linen and change the beds in hospitals, the food  service workers, the custodians, the security people, the first  responders. In the midst of the trauma and grieving, those same  Americans--millions of them--still go to work day after day, week after  week. 

  Our job is to show the victims of systemic racism at the hands of  their own government that the same government can and will protect them  from this pandemic. We hear them. We see them. We fight for them. Their  lives matter. 

  Our response to this crisis must be to stand behind all the people  who make this country work, all workers, whether you swipe a badge or  punch a clock, whether you earn a salary or make tips, whether you are  raising children or caring for an aging parent; all workers, whether  your hard work isn't paying off now or whether it never paid off the  way it should. 

  Dr. King said:  

       One day our society will come to respect the sanitation       worker. For the person who picks up our garbage, in the final       analysis, is as significant as the physician, for if he       doesn't do his job, diseases are rampant. All labor has       dignity.  

  It is Black and Brown workers who have too often, far too long, far  too often been robbed of their dignity on the job. If we want to be a  country where all people have dignity, we need to start by recognizing  that all labor has dignity. But so far, our response to the crisis is  not the response of a government that believes that. This Senate, this  President, can always find trillions of dollars for corporations--for  tax cuts, for bailouts. But when hard-working families need help with  rent or to put food on the table, President Trump and Leader McConnell  say we can't afford it. 

  The President and the administration have already made racial and  economic inequality worse and undone  civil rights protections. They have been pretty clear that they are  willing to put American workers' lives at risk--to reopen stockyards or  just to juice the stock market. 

  President Trump and his administration believe that millions of  Americans are expendable. It is not a coincidence that many of the  people they consider expendable are Black and Brown workers. 

  Since the President is unwilling to protect people--whether that is  protecting their lives or protecting their financial future--we in the  Senate must fill the leadership void. As we do that, we work for  change. We need to be clear that part of leading is listening. 

  The best ideas don't come out of Washington--the solutions we need to  fix the justice system, to address wealth inequality, to reverse  disparities in healthcare, to help communities that have been hurt by  redlining and Jim Crow laws and so much more. 

  Whenever we talk about this, whenever people bring up the ways the  system has failed so many Americans on the Senate floor or at a protest  march, there are always naysayers--almost always White, usually men,  often pretty well-off--who say: How can you be so negative? Why do you  want to dwell on all the worst parts of our history? Don't you love our  country? 

  My response to our country's naysayers and sunshine patriots is this:  How can you be so pessimistic as to believe that this is the best our  country can do? Do you really think the American people, with our  ingenuity and our optimism and tenacity--do you really think the  American people can't create a fair economy and a more just government?  Do you truly believe we can't have a society that works for everyone-- Black and White and Brown, women and men--no matter who you are, no  matter what kind of work you do? Protesting, working for change,  organizing, demanding our country do better--those are some of the most  patriotic things any of us can do. 

  I love my country. If you love this country, you fight for the people  who make it work, all of them. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT