Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, President Trump had chance, after chance,  after chance to get ahead of this coronavirus pandemic in the United  States. He failed. Congress can't make the same mistakes. 

  Senators should not leave town. I just saw Senator McConnell on the  floor. It is his decision. One Senator from one State can make this  decision to walk away--to fail to take care of the $12-an-hour worker  who is sick, who has to choose between going to work--perhaps getting  sicker or perhaps infecting others--or staying home  and giving up her $12-an-hour, $96-a-day job when she struggles with  her rent. We have put her in that position. 

  Senator McConnell, who was standing right there--his office is just  down the hall--could make that unilateral decision as to whether we  stay and actually do the right thing. The Senate has no business  leaving. We shouldn't leave town until we pass the House package to  help workers and to support our communities. 

  President Trump needs to sign it. We need to do our jobs. We need to  take care of workers who are going to need help paying their mortgage,  paying their rent, and taking care of their children if schools close  or they get sick. 

  It is really, really simple. It is why we need to pass paid sick days  now and to shore up unemployment insurance funds immediately. 

  We know that hundreds of thousands--who knows?--millions of people  are going to get laid off in the airlines, in restaurants, in hotels,  in communities where they depend on these businesses to pay property  tax. We know there are going to be lots of layoffs. 

  I am not an alarmist. I am not panicky. I think we are going to deal  with this right. But we need the majority leader, Senator McConnell,  who sits right here and runs the Senate, who makes the decisions on  whether we work or don't work, whether he sends us home or keeps us  here working--Senator McConnell needs to make the decision to keep us  here, and as soon as the House passes this bill, the Senate takes it  up. 

  Paid sick days are one of the most important things we can do to stop  the spread of this virus. We already know that our economy is going to  get hurt. We know the President of the United States judges the economy  by the stock market. He is the first President I have ever seen do  that, but that is beside the point. We also know that the stock market  is up and down and mostly down, and investors are uneasy at best. They  want more predictability, and they are not getting it. But we know the  most important thing is to deal with the spread of the coronavirus. If  we can't contain that, if we can't do anything about that, if we can't  stop the spread of this virus, the other stuff just doesn't matter as  much. 

  You start with the spread of this virus. The best way to stop the  spread of the virus is to say to people if they are sick: You can stay  home, and you can get sick pay. Every other rich country in the world  provides sick pay for people who can't go to work because they are  sick. It is as simple as that. If we don't pass the sick day policy, if  we leave town right now, even if we come back next week, which we are  not scheduled to--again, Senator McConnell's decision--even if we are  only gone a week, that is 5 more workdays of sick people going to work  when they shouldn't, getting sicker, infecting others with coronavirus  or the flu or anything else, or staying home and giving up their pay,  which they need to meet their rent payment. The House package takes  care of this. Senators shouldn't be leaving this building until we get  this help to the people we serve. 

  People in Ohio and people in Indiana, in the Presiding Officer's  State, are scared. They are angry, and I am angry. 

  Many of us have been sounding the alarm for years, warning President  Trump and Leader McConnell, who always does President Trump's bidding,  as if he doesn't even represent a State--he represents the President in  this body--that the President has made us less prepared to handle a  crisis like this one. 

  President Trump tried to gut the Centers for Disease Control and the  National Institutes of Health. 

  Think about this: The United States of America, as recently as 10 or  15 years ago, had the best public health infrastructure, the best  public health safety net in the history of the world. We have the  Centers for Disease Control. We have the National Institutes of Health. 

  In Cincinnati, we have the National Institute for Occupational Safety  and Health--the only one of its kind in the world--and we have our  county public health departments in each of Ohio's 88 counties and all  over the country. 

  We had the best in the world until President Trump began to try to  gut the CDC and the NIH. He refused to fill key public health  positions. 

  Most importantly--this is just unbelievable when you think about it,  and I know Senator Young, the Presiding Officer, had concerns about  that--he got rid of the White House's entire global health security  team 2 years ago. Let me repeat that. For 2 years, President Trump left  us without the team that is supposed to manage pandemics. Do you know  what that means? It means that there were about 40 people at the White  House, led by an admiral who was an M.D.--an admiral who was also a  doctor. His job was to survey the world and look around for potential  illness outbreaks, to look around for potential pandemics. It might  have been SARS. It might have been Ebola. It might have been a  resurgence of polio. It might have been any number of things. His job  at the White House--we are a rich enough country. We can do this, and  we do it to protect--we care about the world. We protect our own  people, although, as we see, if we don't, we see what happens. His job  was to continue to look around the world and look out for these kinds  of pandemics. The President fired him. The President fired the whole  office. The President has never replaced them. I sent him a letter at  the time, more than 600 days ago--back in May of 2018--telling him to  stop dismantling our healthcare infrastructure. Now we are all paying  the price for President Trump's decision. We see the real-time  consequences. This was unilateral disarmament. We unilaterally disarmed  against the world's infectious diseases. 

  We know that international tuberculosis is a problem. We know that  international HIV/AIDS is a problem. We know that international malaria  is a problem. We work against those. 

  Do you know what? One of the things I am proudest about in our  country is what we have done about public health. 

  We led the charge to eradicate small pox. Small pox killed hundreds  of millions of people over time in this world--hundreds of millions. 

  We led the charge to eradicate small pox--this country did. Then we  led the charge to eradicate polio all over the world. I am old enough  to remember children--not children anymore--children I went to grade  school with who had had polio. They were recovered, but they still  limped. They still had signs of polio--not crippling signs but signs of  polio. We did that.  

  We took on tobacco in this body--Senator Durbin, Senator Blumenthal,  Senator Merkley, and I and others. People smoke at half the rate today  than they did 50 years ago. It is starting to go back up because of e- cigarettes, but we have had huge public health victories in this  country. 

  Do you know what? We have a President of the United States now and we  have a Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, who--well, he  certainly tried to help tobacco, but I won't even talk about that. We  have a President and we have a Senate majority leader who simply did  all they could to dismantle the Centers for Disease Control and NIH.  They left us unprepared when the President fired the global security  team at the White House that looked out for illnesses. Now we have a  global pandemic on our hands. 

  President Trump needs to stop pretending he can lock out a disease by  putting up walls at the border--that he has already allowed to spread-- and he needs to start making up for all the lost time he has wasted,  and so does Senator McConnell. 

  We need to make sure we don't end up with a financial crisis on top  of the public health crisis. For some of us, this feels like deja vu.  We have been in moments like this before. We have seen the market drop.  We worried about the financial system. We bailed out the banks, but we  didn't do anything for the workers. That is what this body always does. 

  I am certain Senator McConnell will get around to--and President  Trump--helping corporations that have been hurt. There have been  corporations that have been damaged badly--hotel chains, transportation  companies, particularly airlines. They have been hurt badly by this.  That part is going to get worse. I am sure they will open the public  checkbook to make sure there are billions of dollars for these  industries, but we shouldn't do it until we take care of the workers.  

  If we are going to give X number of dollars to the airlines, as we  probably should, most of that money better end up in the pockets of the  flight attendants, the pilots, the ticket agents, the mechanics, the  baggage handlers, and all of the people who work for the airlines whom  this body forgets about. Yeah, they serve us when we fly, and we don't  even know their names. We probably know the CEOs' names, and we always  help them, but we ought to be helping the workers. 

  Right now, we have a chance to stop this from spiraling out of  control. We don't have another 2008 on our hands yet, but we have to  act now. We don't go home for a week or two or three because Senator  McConnell has some whatever it is that would send us home. We need to  act now. We need to make sure that we focus our efforts on preventing  this virus from spreading and that we don't have one crisis--the  healthcare crisis--stacked on top of an economic crisis, making the  healthcare crisis worse. 

  We know that job is harder because of all the ways President Trump  and Leader McConnell have undone the many protections we put in place  after the last crisis. They backed away from Wall Street reform  safeguards. The President had a chance to get ahead of this virus and  other public health threats, and he failed. He had a chance to get  ahead of financial risks, and he failed. 

  Luckily, Senator McConnell and the President haven't succeeded in  getting rid of all of our Wall Street reform protections. They haven't  succeeded in repealing the Affordable Care Act. Because of that,  because of the work we did a decade ago with President Obama, we are in  a better position now than we were in 2009. But we have to come  together. We have to rise to this challenge. Corporate America needs  to, too. 

  One way we can do that is to suspend these stock buybacks. Congress  gave a huge tax cut to the wealthy in this country 2 years ago. Seventy  percent of the benefits went to the wealthiest 1 percent. 

  I sat in the White House with the President and about 10 Senators.  The President said: You know, everybody's pay is going to go up $4,000,  some as much as $9,000. Those were the bookend numbers he used. He said  that if we do this tax cut, it is going to trickle down and workers are  going to get these raises. 

  Well, it didn't exactly happen that way. But do you know what did  happen? After they got this tax cut, the executives started to do stock  buybacks, taking money that should have been invested in workers,  taking money that should have been invested in technology and upgrading  their companies, but it went to executives--not exactly a shock to most  of us. That is what happened. 

  Banks need to invest in their communities, not invest in their CEOs'  stock portfolio. Right now, JPMorgan is in the middle of an ongoing $30  billion in stock buybacks. Wells Fargo is in the midst of a $23 billion  stock buyback, as if their executives, in all of their criminality and  bad decisions, have earned it. That money would be better spent  investing in small business, in medical research, and in relief for  people who need help. The reason big banks are supposed to have that  money is so that they keep lending and keep communities afloat when we  have crises like this. 

  It is time for all of us to come together in the Senate, in the White  House, in the communities across the country, and, yes, on Wall Street.  That means we don't leave this building until we have done everything  we need to do to get this epidemic under control, to get our  communities the testing capacity and tools they need to manage this  crisis, and to support the workers who are going to get hurt. 

  Leader McConnell's responsibility--I don't care how he votes in the  end--is to make the decision to put the House bill on the floor so we  can vote on it, and President Trump, the day he gets it, needs to sign  it. 

  Let's get help to the people we serve--not next week, not 2 weeks  from now, not tomorrow; let's do it today. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT