Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Madam President, over the past 3 weeks, we have heard from  the House managers and the President's counsel regarding the facts of  the case against President Donald Trump. 

  Much like trials in Lorain and Lima and Lordstown, OH, or in  Marietta, in Massillon, and in Marion, OH, we have seen the  prosecution--in this case, the House managers--and the defense--in this  case, the President's lawyers--present their cases. All 100 of us-- every one of us--are the jury. We took an oath to be impartial jurors.  We all took an oath to be impartial jurors just like juries in Ohio and  across America. But to some of my colleagues, that just appeared to be  a joke. 

  The great journalist Bill Moyers summed up the past 3 weeks: ``What  we've just seen is the dictator of the Senate manipulating the  impeachment process to save the demagogue in the White House whose  political party has become the gravedigger of democracy.'' 

  Let me say that again. ``What we have just seen is the dictator of  the  Senate manipulating the impeachment process to save the demagogue in  the White House whose political party has become the gravedigger of  democracy.'' 

  Even before this trial began, Leader McConnell admitted out loud that  he was coordinating the trial process with the White House. The leader  of the Senate was coordinating with the White House on impeachment. I  challenge him to show me one trial in my State of Ohio or his State of  Kentucky where the jury coordinated with the defense lawyers. In a fair  trial, the defense and prosecution would have been able to introduce  evidence, to call witnesses, and to listen to testimony. 

  Every other impeachment proceeding in the Senate for 250 years had  witnesses. Some of them had dozens. We had zero. Leader McConnell  rushed this trial through. He turned off cameras in this body so that  the American public couldn't see the whole process. He restricted  reporter access. We know reporters roam the halls to talk to Members of  the House and Senate. He restricted access there. He twisted arms to  make sure every Republican voted with him to block witnesses. He didn't  get a couple of them, but he had enough to protect himself. 

  The public already sees through it. This is a sham trial. I said from  the beginning that I would keep an open mind. If there are witnesses  who would exonerate the President, the American people need to hear  from them. 

  Over the course of this trial we heard mounting, overwhelming  evidence that President Trump did something that not even Richard Nixon  ever did: He extorted a foreign leader. He fired a career foreign  service officer for rooting out corruption. He put his own Presidential  campaign above our collective national security. 

  The President said this is just hearsay, but he and the Republican  leader, together with 51 of 53 Republican Senators, blocked every  single potential witness we wanted to call. The President says it was  hearsay. We knew there were witnesses who were in the room with  President Trump. We didn't get to hear from them. We didn't hear from  Ambassador Bolton. We didn't hear from interim Chief of Staff Mulvaney.  We didn't hear from Secretary Pompeo. The Republican leader denied the  American people the chance to hear all of them testify under oath. 

  We have seen more information come to light each day, which builds on  the pattern of facts laid out in great detail by the House managers. We  have now heard tape recordings of the President of the United States  telling associates to ``get rid of'' U.S. Ambassador Yovanovitch, a  public servant who devoted her life to fighting corruption and  promoting American ideals and foreign policy throughout her long,  distinguished career at the State Department. With her removed from the  post, it appears the President thought he would be able to compel our  ally Ukraine to investigate President Trump's political opponent. 

  Reporters have now revealed that Ambassador Bolton--again, a  firsthand witness--outlined that the President did exactly what the  Impeachment Articles allege: He withheld security assistance to an ally  at war with Russia in exchange for a political favor. 

  The Justice Department admits there are 24 emails showing the  President's thinking on Ukraine assistance. But you know what? Senator  McConnell, down the hall, will not allow us to see any of these 24  emails. 

  Make no mistake, the full truth is going to come out. The Presiding  Officer, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, they are all  going to be embarrassed because they covered this up. It wasn't just  the President and the Vice President and Secretary Pompeo and Chief of  Staff Mulvaney; it was 51 Republican U.S. Senators, including the  Presiding Officer, who is a new Member of this body, who covered up  this evidence. 

  It will come out this week. It will come out this month, this year,  the year after that, for decades to come. And when the full truth comes  out, we will be judged by our children and grandchildren. 

  Without additional witnesses, we must judge based on the facts  presented. The House managers made a clear, compelling case. In the  middle of a war with Russia, the President froze $400 million in  security assistance to Ukraine. He wanted an investigation into his  2020 political opponent. He refused a critical meeting with President  Zelensky in the Oval Office. 

  These actions don't promote our national security or the rule of law;  they promote Donald Trump personally and his campaign. 

  We know the President extorted President Zelensky. He asked the  leader of a foreign government to help him. That is the definition of  an abuse of power. That is why we have no choice--no choice--but to  convict this President of abusing his office. All of us know this. To  acquit would set a clear, dangerous precedent: If you abuse your  office, it is OK. Congress will look the other way. 

  This trial and these votes we are about to cast are about way more  than just President Trump. They are about the future of democracy. It  will send a message to this President--or whomever we elect in  November--and to all future Presidents. It will be heard around the  world--our verdict--by our allies and enemies alike, especially the  Russians. Are we going to roll out the welcome mat to our adversaries  to interfere in our elections? Are we going to give a green light to  the President of the United States to base our country's foreign policy  not on our collective, agreed-upon national security or that of our  allies, like Ukraine, but on the President's personal political  campaign? 

  These are the issues at stake. If we don't hold this President  accountable for abuse of office, if no one in his own party, if no one  on this side of the aisle--no one--has the backbone to stand up and say  ``stop,'' there is no question it will get worse. How do I know that? I  have heard it from a number of my Republican colleagues when,  privately, they will tell me, yes, we are concerned about what the  President is going to do if he is exonerated. 

  I was particularly appalled by the words of Mr. Dershowitz. He said:  ``If a President does something which he believes will help him get  elected in the public interest, that cannot be the kind of quid pro quo  that results in impeachment.'' 

  Think about that for a moment. If the President thinks it is OK, he  thinks it is going to help his election, and he thinks his election is  in the public interest, then it is OK; the President can break any law,  can funnel taxpayer money toward his reelection, can turn the arm of  the State against his political enemies and not be held accountable.  That is what this claim comes down to. 

  Remember the words of Richard Nixon: ``When the President does it,  that means it is not illegal.'' Our country rejected that argument  during Watergate. We had a Republican Party with principle in those  days and Senators with backbone, and they told that President to resign  because nobody is above the State; nobody is above the law. 

  If we have a President who can turn the Office of the Presidency and  the entire executive branch into his own political campaign operation,  God help us. 

  My colleagues think I am exaggerating. We don't have the option to  vote in favor of some arguments made during the trial and not others.  Mr. Dershowitz's words will live forever in the historical record. If  they are allowed to stand beside a ``not guilty'' verdict--make no  mistake--they will be used as precedent by future aspiring autocrats.  In the words of House Manager Schiff, ``that way madness lies.'' 

  I know some of my colleagues agree this sets a dangerous precedent.  Some of you have admitted to me that you are troubled by the  President's behavior. You know he is reckless. You know he lies. You  know what he did was wrong. I have heard Republican after Republican  after Republican Senator tell me that privately. If you acknowledge  that, if you have said it to me, if you said it to your family, if you  said it to your staff, if you just said it to yourself, I implore you,  we have no choice but to vote to convict. 

  What are my colleagues afraid of? I think about the words of Adam  Schiff in this Chamber on Tuesday: ``If you find that the House has  proved its case and still vote to acquit''--if you still vote to  acquit--``your name will be tied to his with a cord of steel and for  all of history.'' 

  ``[Y]our name will be tied to his with a cord of steel and for all of  history.'' 

  So I ask my colleagues again: What are you afraid of?  

  One of our American fundamental values is that we have no Kings, no  nobility, no oligarchs. No matter how rich, no matter how powerful, no  matter how much money you give to Mitch McConnell's super PAC, everyone  can and should be held accountable. 

  I hope my colleagues remember that. I hope they will choose courage  over fear. I hope they will choose country over party. I hope they will  join me in holding this President accountable to the American people we  all took an oath to serve. 

  We know this: Americans are watching. They will not forget. 

  I will close with quoting, again, Bill Moyers, a longtime journalist:  ``What we have just seen is the dictator of the Senate manipulating the  impeachment process to save the demagogue in the White House whose  political party has become the gravedigger of democracy.'' 

  I know my colleagues on the other side of the aisle know better. I  hope they vote what they really know. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT