Letter to the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Committee - Turner Leads Letter to NCAA Supporting First Four in Dayton


NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Committee

700 West Washington Street

Indianapolis, Indiana 46204

Dear Members of the Committee:

We are writing to express our strong support for the University of Dayton's bid to continue to host the First Four in 2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026, and the University's application to host First and Second Round games of NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championships.

The Dayton region has hosted the First Four every year since the games began in 2011. Before that, opening round games were played in Dayton during the previous decade. The First Four games have routinely filled the University of Dayton arena to capacity and the games have attracted praise and national media attention. No state in the nation has fans more passionate and leaders more dedicated to making the games a success than Ohio. 

We are honored to have hosted the First Four, and grateful to the NCAA for the opportunity. The University of Dayton and community leaders remain committed to supporting the First Four through efforts that embody the spirit of the tournament and the enthusiasm of its fans.

The community supports the First Four by partnering with Wright-Patterson Air Force Base to honor our military heroes during halftime. The games support a Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) learning experience through a series of events, including exhibits set-up by the Air Force Research Laboratory and a halftime basketball shootout with hundreds of local school children who learn about the science behind the game. 

We hope that you will continue to choose the University of Dayton to tip-off the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship. In choosing Dayton, you will continue a long, successful partnership with the Dayton region and provide the student-athletes, coaches, and fans with an unforgettable experience.

Sincerely,

Michael R. Turner

Rob Portman

Sherrod Brown     

Steve Chabot

Warren Davidson

Marcia L. Fudge

Bill Johnson

David P. Joyce

Marcy Kaptur

Robert E. Latta

Brad Wenstrup