Letter to the Hon. Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - Casey Leads Bipartisan Push to Expand Delivery for SNAP Recipients During Pandemic


Dear Secretary Perdue:

We write today to inquire about the actions USDA is taking to expand the delivery optionsavailable to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients. The COVID-19pandemic has resulted in an unprecedented rise in unemployment and a subsequent increase indemand for food assistance. At the same time, social distancing guidelines and stay at homeorders have made it challenging -- and unsafe -- for many individuals to travel to purchase food.This is especially true for seniors and immunocompromised individuals who are at higher risk ofserious illness from COVID-19, as well as individuals with disabilities and families who lackreliable transportation. We believe that no individual or family should be disadvantaged simplybecause they rely on SNAP benefits to access the food they need.

We appreciate USDA's work to expedite the process through which states and retailers are ableto participate in the SNAP Online Purchasing Pilot. For participating states, this innovativeprogram provides an opportunity to increase and streamline delivery options, and theDepartment's efforts to rapidly expand the pilot is one important component of the work that isneeded to expand SNAP recipients' access to delivery services. We thank you for developing thesimplified template for states to enroll as well as for your work to increase participation fromadditional retailers. In addition to these efforts to expand the Online Purchasing Pilot, we believethat it is also critical to further expand and maximize the alternative mechanisms that exist tofacilitate delivery for SNAP participants.

During this public health and economic crisis, it is vital that USDA do everything it can tocontinue to further expand delivery and curbside pickup options for SNAP recipients. Thesetools not only benefit and protect SNAP participants, but they are also essential for the economicbenefits that SNAP purchases provide to businesses, farmers and local communities. We ask thatyou respond to the following questions by May 15, 2020.

1. Have you taken any steps to expand the ability of authorized SNAP retailers to accessmobile/wireless Point of Sale (POS) devices for the purpose of delivery and curbsidepickup?a. How are you working with States and authorized retailers to provide them withinformation regarding the option to offer delivery services to SNAP participants ifthey have mobile/wireless POS devices?b. Have you taken any steps to help retailers interested in offering delivery service toacquire mobile POS or identify partners with delivery capabilities?c. How are you working with retailers exempt from the requirement to pay for theirEBT equipment and service (farmers markets, direct marketing farmers, militarycommissaries, non-profit buying cooperatives) to expand delivery or access tomobile devices?2. What steps have you taken to notify SNAP recipients of the options that currently existfor online ordering, delivery and pickup options?Are you able to compile a centralized list of the retailers that provide theseoptions, or work with the states to compile them by state?3. How is USDA working to authorize direct to consumer retailers (that have deliverycapabilities) to accept SNAP benefits?a. How long is it taking to authorize additional retailers who have become interestedin authorization as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic?b. What barriers have you encountered to expediting this process as interest inauthorization continues to grow?4. Many SNAP participants, especially in rural areas, lack reliable access to internetservices. Has USDA issued any guidance or best practices for retailers about how toprotect SNAP participants from fraud while also offering alternatives to online orderingsuch as placing orders over the phone?5. Many older adults do not have experience shopping for groceries online, and low-incomeolder adults who order groceries for delivery or pick up do so less frequently than thoseof higher incomes. Has USDA has provided guidance to retailers on providing easy tofollow instruction or support for SNAP participants who may not have previousexperience shopping online?6. How are you working to expand the technical support available to farmers, farmersmarkets and food hubs to offer delivery services to SNAP participants?a. How many, and which, states currently utilize USDA funding to support farmersand farmers markets in accessing mobile/wireless POS devices and services? Howmany states include requirements for no-cost wireless equipment for exemptentities in their EBT state processing contracts?b. What funding do you have available for FY20 to support mobile/wireless POSequipment and services for farmers markets and direct market farmers through thestate agencies?7. What funding sources and technical assistance are available to support mobile/wirelessPOS equipment through the States for non-exempt retailers during the COVID-19pandemic?8. What steps are you taking to simplify the process and identify cost-saving solutions toexpedite the adoption of mobile/wireless POS processing capacity for all retailers?9. As interest and demand continues to grow for SNAP delivery services, how is USDAengaging with other federal agencies around recommended health precaution andprotection for retailers, consumers and delivery workers?

We thank you for your immediate attention to these questions.

Sincerely,