Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Education Relating to Borrower Defense Institutional Accountability--


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I want to thank my colleague, Senator  Durbin, for leading efforts this week to undo Betsy DeVos's harmful  rollback protections for millions of Americans with student loans  ripped off by for-profit colleges. This is an example where the Senate  stood up to the President, stood up to the billionaire Secretary of  Education whose mission in that job is to privatize public education  and turn profits for her and her friends and her allies. This  bipartisan Senate stood up to her and stood up to the President, stood  up to the majority leader, and did the right thing. 

  We have seen these for-profit colleges in Ohio. Schools like  Corinthian and ITT, which make big promises with fake--and this time  the word ``fake'' is accurate--they make big promises with fake or  deceptive job placement rates. They spend millions on marketing, and  they trick students into taking out huge loans, only to close up shop  and leave them with meaningless degrees or, worse yet, just credits but  always mountains of debt. 

  These are people trying to get an education to improve their job  prospects to build a better life for themselves and their families. Too  often these predatory schools target Black students, Latino students,  immigrants, low-income students, and first-generation college students.  Many of them are veterans returning from serving our country and  looking to start a new career. 

  These for-profit colleges are willing to exploit people who have  taken out loans to go there who are veterans. Sometimes they go to  school. They served their country and then they go to school, and these  for-profit colleges are willing to take advantage of them. These for- profit schools are all about lining the pockets of their CEOs. 

  We need to stand with the defrauded student borrowers and hold these  for-profit schools accountable. Of course, we have learned not to hold  our breath when it comes to the Trump administration holding anyone  accountable--at least anyone rich accountable. Instead of figuring out  how to provide relief for students, Secretary Betsy DeVos went to work  figuring out how to let the schools that scammed them off the hook.  

  Three hundred thousand people had submitted borrower defense claims  as of last December. More than 200,000 of those requests are still  pending. More than 7,700 Ohioans--7,700 people in my State--are waiting  for relief. 

  In 2016, the Obama administration announced a rule to help these  students get their loans canceled, but the DeVos Department of  Education--the Trump Department of Education--dragged its feet on  processing borrower defense claims. They rewrote the rule to make it  damn near impossible for defrauded students to get the relief they were  promised. They are throwing up hurdle after hurdle: narrow time limits,  making students gather all kinds of unnecessary paperwork, and banning  students from appealing a decision. 

  DeVos's rule opens up the doors for schools to once again use  mandatory arbitration. I am not a lawyer, but I know from seeing this  done to far too many of my constituents. Its legal fine print that for- profit schools sneak into their enrollment agreements deny students  their day in court. Students don't know they are part of these  agreements. They are, and they lose their day in court. 

  I hear from Ohioans all the time who have been scammed by these  schools. 

  Tasha Berkhalter came to Washington last month to bring attention to  this important issue. She is an Army veteran. She served our country  with honor. She is a mother of four. She returned home. She wanted to  do forensics with the FBI, so she enrolled in ITT's criminal justice  program. She didn't think of it as a for-profit school. She didn't know  she was about to get scammed. 

  She had served our country. She wanted to serve our country. She went  to this for-profit school. ITT told her that her GI benefits would  cover the full tuition and that they would help her get a job after  graduation. But when she began to suspect the program wasn't the high- quality education that it claimed and tried to transfer, she found out  that no other schools--no other legitimate schools--would accept her  ITT credits. The supposedly high-tech school was using outdated books. 

  Faced with a choice of continuing at ITT or starting completely over,  she finished her degree. She ended up $100,000 in debt. Remember, ITT  told her the GI bill would cover everything--well, except for $100,000.  She ended up $100,000 in debt with a degree that, unfortunately,  employers didn't take seriously. 

  Those are the people whom Secretary DeVos and those are the people  whom President Trump, with his own Trump University, want to take over  our higher education system. 

  Now she has lost her shot at using the GI benefit she earned, and she  is drowning in debt. 

  Ms. Berkhalter and other student veterans defrauded by shady schools  deserve better than the treatment they are getting under Betsy DeVos.  Not only is Betsy DeVos refusing to help, her new borrower defense rule  will let other for-profit colleges continue to run the same scams on  other students and student veterans. 

  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is supposed to crack down on  these schools and on loan-servicing companies that handle people's  student loans. That is why we created the CFPB--to look out for people  like Ms. Berkhalter. But under President Trump, under Betsy DeVos, they  refuse to let the CFPB look into loan services that are scamming  students. 

  I asked the CFPB Director today about this. We have been asking her  for a year to take this over and make it work. She continues to yield  to her billionaire friend in the Cabinet, Secretary DeVos, who is a  billionaire friend of the billionaire President and has no interest in  making him accountable. President Trump's CFPB Director is rolling  over, refusing to do her job protecting the tens of millions of  Americans with student loans. 

  It comes back always to whose side you are on. Are you going to stand  with student veterans, or are you going to stand with these for-profit  CEOs, these CEOs of for-profit schools who are making literally  millions of dollars a year? Are you going to fight for defrauded  Americans saddled with student loans or the shady schools ripping them  off? It is pretty clear with whom President Trump and Betsy DeVos are  standing. Over and over and over, President Trump and his  administration betray the people he promised to fight for. 

  I am glad my colleagues stood up today. It was a bipartisan victory.  It said to President Trump and Betsy DeVos and Majority Leader  McConnell that that kind of fraud, that kind of exploitation of our  veterans and our students who are defrauded by these for-profit  colleges is something we will no longer accept.                         Remembering Nathaniel Jones  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I rise to honor a leader in the fight for  justice, a great Ohioan whom we lost last month, Judge Nathaniel Jones. 

  At a ceremony dedicating the Federal courthouse in honor of Judge  Jones in 2003, former Congressman Louis Stokes said that the courthouse  served as a testament to the outstanding public service by ``a local  who made good.'' Judge Jones certainly was that. 

  Born in Youngstown in 1926, he served a country that did not yet  recognize his full legal equality. He served his country in World War  II. He went on to become a respected lawyer. He went on first to be a  journalist who worked for the Youngstown and Pittsburgh News. He worked  for the Youngstown newspaper. He covered Jackie Robinson when Jackie  Robinson played in AAA and became a friend of his. He went on to become  a respected lawyer, a Federal judge, and an international civil and  human rights advocate. He was a local who made good, but more  importantly, he was a man who did good. He committed his life to the  pursuit of justice and equality. We are all the better for it. 

  He led efforts to end employment discrimination as the Executive  Director of the Fair Employment Practices Commission. He was the first  African-American U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. He  served as Assistant General Counsel for President Johnson's Kerner  Commission. That Commission issued a landmark report warning that  racism and poverty were the root causes of violence in our Nation's  cities during the 1960s. 

  As general counsel for the NAACP, Judge Jones directed efforts to  fight discrimination faced by African-American soldiers and worked to  desegregate public schools in the North, stepping in personally to  argue several cases. 

  Nominated by President Carter, he was confirmed in 1979 to the Sixth  Circuit Court of Appeals--one of only 39 African Americans to ever  serve on the Federal Circuit. As a judge, he felt it was his duty to be  an instrument of change in a system that too often denied justice to  people of color. In many of the cases that came before the court, he so  often sided with those taking on powerful interests and fighting for  their rights--something we see far too little of in this body and in  this government. 

  As South Africa began to move beyond the dark days of apartheid and  chart a new future of inclusion and equality, Judge Jones was called to  help draft the country's new Constitution. 

  In Cincinnati, which he called home for some 45 years, the footprints  of his good work can be seen across the city. Some of my favorite times  were sitting in Judge Jones's office and listening to him tell about  his days as a reporter knowing Jackie Robinson, talking about his days  at the NAACP, and talking about his belief in justice and his passion  for fair play. 

  He was one of the early supporters of the National Underground  Railroad Freedom Center. He mentored numerous young lawyers who served  as his law clerks. He offered his assistance to local leaders seeking  to address the lingering stigma of racism still far too present in our  society. Judge Jones was a brilliant legal thinker. He was a dogged  advocate for civil rights. 

  Judge Jones was a wonderful husband and father. I am privileged to  know well Stephanie, his daughter, who worked in the House of  Representatives some years ago. He was a good friend, and he was a  mentor to so many. He was also a relentless optimist who never--never-- ceased to believe in the promise of our great country. 

  The legacy of Judge Nathaniel Jones will live on through his far- reaching work for justice and through the many, many lives he touched. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT