Providing A 77-Day Extension of Certain Authorities for Foreign Intelligence and International Terrorism Investigations


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. I think you just watched what is wrong with this place. 

  Senator Durbin comes here and talks about the importance of doing  something. Last Thursday, when Speaker Pelosi and Secretary Mnuchin  were close to coming up with a deal about what we have to do to stop  this virus--keep in mind, the President of the United States first  mentioned this in an answer to a question with all the elites in Davos,  Switzerland. He first answered a question saying: Oh, this virus is  nothing. It will mean nothing. 

  I think it took him 8 weeks before he declared an emergency. Then,  last Thursday, we were supposed to start working on this. We should  have. I asked Senator McConnell on this floor--I opened this door, and  I pointed down the hall. I said: Senator McConnell should come back  here, and let's work on this bill. 

  Whether they were actually finished doing it in the House down the  hall or not, we should be working on this. 

  Now we have had 4 more days. Senator McConnell had to go back to  Kentucky. I don't know what he went back for. We asked him to stay and  finish this, to negotiate and do it to take care of stopping this  virus, to take care of all the people in my State in Illinois and  Senator Markey's State and Senator Coons' State and Senator Boozman's  State, to take care of all these people who are losing their jobs and  don't know what to do. 

  Senator McConnell went back to Kentucky and wasted 3 days--make that  4 days since today is another day we are wasting. Again, I don't know  why he went back. It is 3 more days of people being worried. It is 3  more days of people self-quarantining. It is 3 more days of businesses  in Columbus and Dayton shutting down. It is the anguish you feel if you  think one of your loved ones is sick. All of this--empty airplanes and  all the things that are happening--and we are wasting another day. 

  I always appreciate the Senator from Idaho bringing up a  parliamentary  technical question, but why aren't we doing this? Why aren't we  listening to what Senator Durbin said? 

  It has been 3 days since the House passed the comprehensive package.  It is 3 days and counting for people worried about how they are going  to take time off from work if they get sick. 

  Think about this. The Presiding Officer knows all kinds of service  workers in Arkansas; Senator Durbin knows them in Illinois; Senator  Markey, in Massachusetts. I know all kinds of workers who are feeling  sick. They are making $12 an hour. They don't have any sick days. They  think: Do I go to work and maybe I will get sick and maybe infect my  neighbor? Or do I stay home and give up that $12 an hour--that $100 I  need to make my rent--and then, tomorrow, face the same question and  the day after? That is what we are forcing on people. Instead, we are  just playing games. We wasted 3 days, and now we are wasting another  day. 

  When a situation changes this quickly, people are scared at home.  People are looking for leadership. Leader McConnell and President Trump  have failed the people they serve. We need to get help to people today.  Let's immediately get to work on the next round of support. 

  Let me tell you what that next round of support is. We should pass  the bill today to help people with unemployment insurance, to help  people with sick days, to help people with Medicaid. We should do all  that. It means putting our workers first. We shouldn't be bailing out  Wall Street. That will be next. You can bet Senator McConnell will  hurry when the airlines come for their bailout package and hurry when  the banks come for their bailout package and hurry when the big hotel  chains come for their bailout package. 

  We have to put money in the pockets of individuals first. The IRS  needs to send an initial check of at least $2,000 directly to every  single working-class, low-income, and middle-class family who can use  it so they won't get evicted or won't get foreclosed on. We don't need  a corporate middleman to do that. We need to make sure every worker who  needs unemployment insurance can get it. 

  I have spoken to my Governor, who has done a good job on this. He  served here with Senator Durbin. He is Mike DeWine, a Republican. I  talked to him three times this week. He will help us speed up the  unemployment checks so that they get to workers. We need to make sure  that all workers are eligible for unemployment insurance, including  independent contractors and people who are self-employed.  

  Second, we need a temporary expansion of the earned income tax credit  and the child tax credit for the next several years. 

  Third, we need to hold any company accountable that is getting  taxpayer dollars. If we are going to help the airlines--and I think we  should--it means the airlines can do no stock buybacks. It means no  sending of jobs overseas. It means no outsourcing of jobs to  independent and usually low-paid contract workers--food service,  custodial, security workers. It means no golden parachutes for  executives. It means no using of taxpayer dollars, with which we are  bailing them out, to bust unions that are trying to organize in the  workplaces. If they want taxpayer money, you commit to using it to help  people who make this country work. 

  Fourth, we need to prevent evictions and foreclosures and provide  emergency rental and mortgage assistance to make up for lost wages.  Millions of Americans are one lost paycheck away from eviction or  foreclosure. You all know the number. Forty percent of Americans don't  have $400 extra to fix their cars. Also, if they lose their paychecks,  they can't pay their rent. We need to look at canceling some amount of  student loan debt. Through no fault of their own, we know millions of  Americans aren't going to be able to make student loan payments.  Canceling debt will allow people to get back on their feet. 

  Since January 22, President Trump has had chance, after chance, after  chance to get ahead of this public health crisis. In fact, 2 years ago,  I sent him a letter, writing: Why did you fire Admiral Ziemer? Why did  you eliminate the office of 40 people in the White House that was in  charge of surveilling the world to look for potential pandemics? Why  did you fire them? Please reinstate them. 

  He ignored the letter. He hasn't explained why he eliminated that  office. He would have known way before January about this potential  pandemic, and if it had still existed, he might have done something  about it at the urging of that office. The President has failed in  this. Congress can't make the same mistakes. We need to get ahead of  the crisis facing family budgets before it is too late. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. I yield to the Senator from Illinois. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. I thank the Senator from Illinois. 

  Yes. Sure, we have. If we want to get something done, we get  something done. We find a way, through unanimous consent, for all of us  to agree. 

  Who can say that this is anything but a national crisis? Are we going  to make our unwillingness to do anything contingent on some  parliamentary trick? No. We are paid to do this job. Just because  Senator McConnell has taken 4 days and not done it doesn't mean that we  shouldn't. We should work. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT