Stephen Schwartz


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, the U.S. Senate used to be called the  greatest deliberative body in the world. It is the Senate where, at  this desk, Hugo Black wrote labor law reform. Essentially, he and  another Senator in the U.S. Senate and President Roosevelt created  collective bargaining. It is the desk in the Senate Chamber where  Senator McGovern from South Dakota passed legislation with Senator Dole  across the aisle for feeding programs for hungry people in the United  States. 

  I just met with a number of people from the Cleveland Food Bank, the  Middle Ohio Food Bank, and Second Harvest Food Bank. The McGovern-Dole  legislation also fed hungry kids around the world. 

  This is the body that used to do those kinds of things--the greatest  deliberative body in the world. But under Leader McConnell, whose  office is down the hall, we see something different. The focus of this  body has pretty much been one job, and that is confirming young, 38-,  40-, 42-, and 45-year-old judges--extreme judges--who always put their  thumbs on the scale to support corporations over workers, to support  Wall Street over consumers, and who put their thumbs on the scale to  support insurance companies over patients and drug companies over  patients. Even by the low standards--and, my gosh, they are low--we  have come to expect from Senator McConnell and the majority in always,  always supporting the rich, always fighting for the largest  corporations, always fighting for the people who have privilege against  struggling families, against workers--40 percent of people in this  country don't have $400 to their name if they have an emergency to  meet. Instead of dealing with that issue, it is more tax cuts for the  rich. It is more cuts to Medicaid or to food stamps or to the SNAP  program or any of these things.  

  Even by the low standards we have come to expect from Leader  McConnell and President Trump, this nomination I am going to talk about  today, Stephen Schwartz, is appalling. In one sentence, he wants to  abolish Social Security--not scale back the cost of living, not throw a  few people off Social Security disability, not eliminate survivors'  benefits; he wants to abolish Social Security. You heard that right. 

  President Trump, on the stump--he came to Ohio many times, my State,  and around the country--promised he would protect Social Security, but  now he puts Stephen Schwartz on the bench, a judge who wants to abolish  it. 

  Stephen Schwartz wrote that Social Security benefits were intended to  prevent ``outright starvation.'' He wasn't sitting at this desk, to be  sure, in the 1930s when Social Security was started. Obviously, he  didn't understand that Social Security was one of three legs of the  stool: Social Security, private pension--we don't have too many of  those anymore--and then savings that workers were able to accrue. 

  He says that Social Security was there to prevent ``outright  starvation,'' that Social Security has ``become a standard component of  most retirement programs.'' That is kind of the point, to make sure  that every single American who works her whole life and pays into the  system can have a decent retirement. But for this man, Stephen  Schwartz, the man President Trump and Leader McConnell want to put on a  Federal court with jurisdiction--this isn't one of those lifetime  judges who are in one district that can do a little bit of damage in  the Northern District of Ohio or in the Southern District of Alabama-- they can do plenty of damage. But this is a man whom President Trump  and Leader McConnell want to put on a Federal court with jurisdiction  over the whole country. As long as people aren't literally starving to  death in retirement, that is enough, he seems to think. 

  I would like Mr. Schwartz to come to Ohio. I would like him to come  to Garfield Heights. My wife and I live in the city of Cleveland.  Garfield Heights borders the city of Cleveland. I would like him to  come to Garfield Heights and go to Carlo's Barber Shop with me someday  and just listen to people talk. Carlo cuts the hair of a whole lot of  retired people. I would love to hear him listen to the retired  machinist or the retired teacher and say to them that this gentleman  wants to serve in the Federal Government, appointed by the President of  the United States, and thinks that Social Security should be  eliminated. I want him to talk to the nurses and the barbers and the  teachers. I want him to talk to Americans who have paid into Social  Security for their whole lives. 

  Social Security is called social insurance. It is like unemployment  benefits. It is like Medicare. Social Security--you pay in every  paycheck unless you are really rich. Then you only pay in for a few  months. But you pay into it every paycheck, understanding that it is  insurance, it is social insurance. You pay in, and then when you retire  or if you get disabled--or if you die, your children get the survivors'  benefits. You pay in, paycheck after paycheck  after paycheck, and then when you need it--that is the whole point of  insurance--for disability, when you need it for survivors' benefits, if  someone in the family--if the breadwinner in the family dies or you  need it for retirement, then you get it. 

  It is one more broken promise to workers by President Trump, one more  betrayal. 

  Remember, at the beginning of the year, President Trump went to  Davos, that sort of hoity-toity place in Switzerland. While he was  hobnobbing with the global elite, he let slip his plan. He changed his  mind the next day, but it is clear what he wanted. After his tax  handouts to billionaires and corporations blew up the deficit,  President Trump said he wants to pay for those tax cuts--remember, 70  percent of the Trump tax cuts went to the richest 1 percent. 

  That is why a year and a half ago you saw the lobbyists going in and  out of Mitch McConnell's office, the leader's office, all saying: I  want this tax cut for this company and this tax cut for that company.  He wants to pay for all that--the President said he wants to pay for it  by cutting Social Security and Medicare. Think about that. All these  people pay into Social Security and pay into Medicare every day of  their working lives--people starting at 16 or 15 or 17--they pay that  throughout their working lives, and then the President says he wants to  cut Medicare and Social Security in order to pay for tax cuts for rich  people. 

  He sold his giveaway to the wealthy as a tax cut for the working  people. It wasn't. He sold his tax cut to the wealthy by saying it  would raise wages. It didn't. People see Trump's tax scam for what it  really was: a giveaway to corporations and the wealthiest tiny sliver,  the 1 percent of this country. 

  He said over and over that it would mean raises for workers. He  promised that somehow these massive corporate tax cuts, these giveaways  to companies, would end up in workers' pockets. I heard him pledge to a  group of Senators at the White House in the relatively small Cabinet  Room--I heard him say that everybody is going to get a $4,000 raise.  Well, not. They obviously didn't. 

  He told workers last year, the month after he signed the law: You are  going to start seeing a lot more money in your paycheck. 

  One lie after another. He did say, though, after signing the bill,  when he went to Mar-a-Lago and hung around with his millionaire and  billionaire friends: I made you a lot richer today when I signed that  tax cut. He did live up to that promise when he made them richer. It  just didn't trickle down, shall we say, to people making $30,000,  $50,000, and $80,000 a year. 

  Instead of investing in workers, these corporations bought back  trillions of dollars of their own stock to line investors' pockets.  Meanwhile, the deficit exploded. We know what the corporate crowd's  plan always is to deal with deficits. You come into office, you cut  taxes on rich people. The deficit goes up to over $1 trillion. So what  do you do? Oh, my gosh, the deficit is up. We have to cut spending. Go  after Medicare. Go after Social Security. Go after Medicaid. Go after  SNAP. Go after, in my State, the Manufacturing Extension Partnership,  the MEP, which helps local businesses create jobs. He cut that to zero.  He has cut programs and all kinds of things that matter to working- class, middle-class, and small-business Americans, all to pay for that  tax cut. So much of what he does now is to pay for that tax cut that  blew a hole in the deficit. 

  It all comes back to whose side you are on. Do you stand with  corporations, or do you stand with workers? Do you fight for Wall  Street, or do you care about the dignity of work and live the dignity  of work? We know for whom Stephen Schwartz fights. He spent his whole  career trying to block protections for workers and students. He tried  to stop people from voting in North Carolina. He has argued against the  retirement securities that workers paid into their whole lives. And  this is his reward. He has fought voting rights. He has worked to put  Social Security out of business. He has always stood with the most  privileged and the richest, and this is his reward from the President  of the United States and his reward from Senator McConnell, who sits in  the front of this room. 

  That is why he doesn't belong on the Federal bench. If you love this  country, you fight for the people who make it work. President Trump  promised to fight for American workers, but this President betrayed  American workers again and again and again. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT