United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BROWN. Madam President, 3\1/2\ years or so ago, I live in  Cleveland, and I was in my State watching the Presidential campaign. I  heard Candidate Trump repeatedly talking about renegotiating NAFTA or  getting rid of the North America Free Trade Agreement. While I did not  support his candidacy and have generally disagreed with most of what he  has said and done, it was a bit of music to my ears to hear Candidate  Trump talk about renegotiating or getting rid of NAFTA. 

  I have voted, in my time in the Senate and before this, every single  trade agreement starting with the North America Free Trade Agreement of  two-plus decades ago, I have voted no in these trade agreements. I  never voted for a trade agreement because, frankly, every trade  agreement coming in front of the House or Senate has been a corporate  trade agreement. It has been written by corporate lobbyists to serve  corporate executives to serve their biggest stockholders. That is what  these trade agreements are about. In every case, it was an attack on  the middle class. In every case, it undermined worker protections. It  depressed wages. It meant loss of jobs. 

  I know what these corporate trade agreements did to my hometown of  Mansfield. I know what it did in Mansfield, OH. I know what they have  done to my adoptive city of Cleveland, OH, and I know what they have  done to the entire industrial Midwest--well beyond that, too, in places  like Arizona and elsewhere. I have seen what these corporate trade  deals do. 

  So Candidate Trump is elected President. He then says he is going to  do away, back out, or renegotiate NAFTA. I looked at that with  optimism. I talked to the U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador  Lighthizer, a number of times. I spoke with the President about it. I  offered my assistance, and then, lo and behold, about a year ago, the  President came out with a renegotiated NAFTA. It was the same old, same  old. It was another corporate trade agreement that served his corporate  interests, that served the drug companies, and that served those  companies that are looking for cheap labor across the Rio Grande River. 

  Under the President's new NAFTA--he called it USMCA--United States- Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement--under the President's new NAFTA, it was  the same corporate template, the same corporate trade agreement that  helps corporate investors, that undermines workers, that gives  incentives to companies to shut down production in Zanesville, in  Gallipolis, in Marietta, in Cleveland, in Lima, in Toledo, and in Bryan  and move their jobs to Mexico. 

  So what did we do? Instead, initially, I continued to talk to the  U.S. Trade Representative, as did some of my colleagues, knowing this  first NAFTA draft was unacceptable and was not nearly what the  President said he would do for workers. In fact, it was more than that.  It was another betrayal of workers. This same President has betrayed  low-income workers by refusing to raise the minimum wage. It has been  more than a decade. This same President took away the new overtime  rule, costing at least 50,000 Ohioans--that is just 50,000 in my State,  thousands in Arizona, probably 100,000 in California, tens of thousands  around the country and different States--cost them their overtime pay,  meaning they would work 50 hours a week, and they would only get paid  for 40. We saw that this President again was betraying workers. 

  It has taken us months and months and months of fighting alongside  Speaker Pelosi and Senator Wyden--the senior Democrat of the Finance  Committee--and unions and organized labor to secure the Brown-Wyden  provisions that now, with USMCA, amount to the strongest labor  enforcement in a U.S. trade agreement ever. 

  It means that wages will go up in Mexico, which is good news for  American workers because fewer jobs will move to Mexico. A worker in  Mexico now will be able to report a company that violates her labor  rights or worker rights. Within months, we can determine whether worker  rights have been violated and can take action against that company. 

  Now, for the first time in my whole career, I will vote for a trade  agreement. I wouldn't have voted for the Trump trade. I didn't vote for  NAFTA, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, PNTR with China and  South Korea, and all these other trade agreements. I would not have  voted against the Trump USMCA because it didn't look out for workers. 

  Instead of putting workers at the center of trade agreements, which  is what we should do, it was a trade agreement written by and for  corporate interests. What Senator Wyden and I did and others is we are  now about to pass a trade agreement that puts workers in the center of  the trade agreement, meaning a stronger middle class and meaning  workers will get a fair shake. It means that Ohio workers will be able  to compete. 

  We know why companies took advantage of these corporate trade  agreements. They shut down production in Ohio and moved to Mexico so  they can pay lower wages and they can take advantage of workers who  don't have rights. American workers can't compete with that when it is  a race to the bottom on wages. Brown-Wyden will work to stop that, and  for the first time ever, as I said, it will put workers in the center  of a trade agreement. 

  We must be straight with American workers. This isn't a perfect trade  agreement. One trade deal the Democrats fixed--even though the  President resisted it, finally gave in--a trade deal that Democrats  fixed will not undo the rest of Trump's economic policies that puts  corporations over workers and appoints judges who put their thumbs on  the scales of justice to support corporations over workers and to  support Wall Street over consumers. I voted yes. I voted yes today in  the Finance Committee. It is the first time I ever have on a trade deal  because, by including Brown-Wyden, Democrats have made this agreement  much more pro-worker, and, equally as important, we set an important  precedent that Brown-Wyden must be included in every future trade  agreement that comes in front of this body. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT