Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701862/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Mrs. CHERFILUS-McCORMICK. I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to talk about  the economic damage.

I support this bill because, at the end of the day, we have to  recognize that the Haitian people who actually have come to the United  States, they did go through a vigorous vetting process in order for  them to get the TPS status that they have.

Second of all, if we are looking at the economic damage that will  come to actually pushing out more than 350,000 TPS recipients, we know  that is going to be devastating to our market. There is a better way.

We should be contemplating not just extending TPS in this bill to  2029, but also figuring out how we can actually transition. While these  TPS recipients hold over 100,000 jobs in healthcare, which is actually  a fact, why don't we put together some kind of continuing education  program for Americans so they can replace them. What is the rush to  kick them out of the country and to leave all of these positions open  with no one to refill them?

Let's talk about more how we can protect and make sure that our  hospitality industry in South Florida, where we have more than a  thousand Haitian TPS workers who work in the airports in Miami, the  airports in Broward County, and also in hospitality, if we kick them  out willy-nilly, just everybody goes out in one day, how are we going  to sustain the economy in South Florida, in a State that everybody  loves to visit?

What I am asking for is cool minds to actually come together and  think about how we can actually have a transition process that will  protect the American people, help our economy, but not rushing toward  this mass exodus which is going to leave the American people in the  industry.

One of the things we have to realize also is that the American people  did ask for job skills training. They did ask for a transition. They  are not looking for chaos and just to push people out.

The truth is, I keep hearing this fact about 61 percent of Haitian  people are on welfare. My district is full of Haitian people. My family  is from Haiti. I don't know anybody who is on welfare. What we are  saying is that we are not arguing that it should be temporary. In fact,  the bill says until 2029. What we are arguing is that we sit together,  come together, and have a plan of transition.

Mrs. CHERFILUS-McCORMICK. What I would propose is that we actually  pass this bill and then come together and think of a transition where  we can now train Americans so they can get those jobs, give them a  green card until that time comes, and protect our economy.

I would say it one more time. If we just move forward like this, what  we would be doing is economic sabotage. Look at all of the Haitian  workers and what they uphold. Think of every elderly person who has a  nurse. Think of the vulnerable.

My heart hurts for anybody who was hurt. I do not like women being  abused. I think it is terrible when we have criminals, but let's have  cool minds come together and have a plan that benefits both sides and  this country.