Notice of Intention to Offer Motion to Discharge Committee on Rules From Further Consideration of House Resolution 965


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701752/notice-of-intention-to-offer-motion-to-discharge-committee-on-rules-from-further-consideration-of-house-resolution-965


Mrs. CHERFILUS-McCORMICK. Mr. Speaker, I would like to say a special  thank you to the gentlewoman from Massachusetts (Ms. Pressley) for  uniting the Caucus and Congress and passing this and getting the  signatures.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on behalf of all the Haitian  Americans in the United States and not just on their behalf, but on  behalf of other Americans also who have businesses. I want us to look  at this not just from a humanitarian perspective but also the economic  damage which will happen to our country if we were, in fact, to expel  over 350,000 Haitian Americans on TPS.

Haitian TPS holders contribute nearly $6 billion annually to the U.S.  economy. Haitian TPS holders pay taxes. They pay $1.5 billion in  Federal taxes, supporting Social Security, Medicare, and public health  projects. They are active, compliant contributors to our economy.

Ending TPS would remove hundreds of thousands of workers from the  labor force and shrink local economies across the country. Deportation  is not fiscally responsible. It is economic sabotage.

There is another way. We can push legislation that would allow a  transition, maybe for them to have green cards while we educate  Americans to replace these jobs. However, rushing for expulsion or  rushing to push them out of the country without an economic plan would  only hurt our Nation, our businesses, and us.

Let's look at all the contributions that they have given. We have  already stated that Haitian people actually possess more than 20  percent of the jobs in healthcare throughout the Nation, but that is  not the end of the story.

Let's look at what they actually do when it comes to the economy in  engineering and construction. We all agree that there is a huge housing  problem right now. Who is building those homes? Those are our TPS  people, who are here and who are working adamantly.

Today, I ask for us to consider this bill and to actually not go  forward with expelling all the Haitian TPS recipients because it would  only do us harm.

In response, what we should do is be united in thinking of an  economic plan to not just create job skills training for Americans,  which Americans are asking for direly right now. They want to work.  They want to be a part of the economy, and we should give them  permanent residency.