Protecting South Florida


Mrs. CHERFILUS-MCCORMICK. Mr. Speaker, today Republicans are jamming  through a reckless bill that would wreak havoc on south Florida. In  response, I introduced a series of commonsense amendments to protect  American families.

Over the past few weeks, multiple hospitals, including several  children's hospitals, have come into my office and pleaded with me to  stop the devastating Medicaid cuts.

One children's hospital, in particular, showed me their net operating  margins for 2024. They were in the negative. This bill will close them  down and deprive more than 80,000 children of lifesaving care.

This bill also threatens the integrity of this lifeline program,  while giving tax breaks to the wealthy and well-connected and leaving  our children sicker, poorer, and without healthcare.

I am offering an amendment to protect Florida's ability to fund  Medicaid. I refuse to stay quiet and silent while this body attempts to  rip away healthcare from our most vulnerable children who need it.

I also introduced another amendment to protect south Florida's small  businesses and the workers they depend on. Immigrants are the economic  engine of south Florida. Their hard work and ingenuity make the region  a desirable travel destination that thousands of people flock to each  year.

Unfortunately, this tax-breaks-for-billionaires bill threatens to  upend the district's economy, shutter small businesses, and disrupt  south Florida's tourist industry.

As it is currently written, this bill would impose excessive fees on  employment authorizations sought by asylum seekers and individuals  holding temporary protective status to work in the United States. At a  time of unprecedented worker shortages for south Florida businesses,  Congress should make it easier for companies to hire and not more  difficult.

My amendment caps employment authorization fees at $550 for asylum  seekers and TPS holders. It is a commonsense change that would give  south Florida businesses the flexibility they need to keep moving and  to keep thriving.

I also have an amendment that strikes the visa fee for this bill.  Imposing a fee on tourists at a time when U.S. tourism is experiencing  instability and unprecedented lows because of reckless trade wars would  be catastrophic to our economy.

Furthermore, my amendment eliminates the cruel remittance tax that  will exacerbate crises in places like Haiti, Venezuela, and African  countries that depend on them. Taxing this lifeline will only bring  more economic instability to the Caribbean and result in increased  migration to the United States.

Mr. Speaker, remittances should not be taxed but should be  incentivized. I will continue to fight relentlessly to protect south  Florida from this reckless bill.