Recognizing Dr. Karri Bryant in Honor of Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701817/recognizing-dr-karri-bryant-in-honor-of-womens-history-month


Mrs. CHERFILUS-McCORMICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr.  Karri Bryant in  honor of Women's History Month. I include in the Record the following  proclamation:

Whereas, Women's History Month is a time to honor women who       have demonstrated excellence, leadership, faith, and service       in their communities and beyond; and

Whereas, Dr. Karri Bryant is an ordained clergywoman,       author, entrepreneur, mentor, and public speaker, dedicated       to empowering individuals--especially women--to grow in       faith, purpose, and leadership: and

Whereas, she has achieved significant academic success,       earning a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Morris       Brown College, a Master of Divinity from the Candler School       of Theology at Emory University, and a Doctorate in Ministry       focused on leadership and Christian renewal; and

Whereas, through initiatives such as Life Behind the Collar       and The NUDGE Mentorship Initiative, Dr. Bryant provides       mentorship, spiritual guidance, and leadership development to       emerging leaders and women navigating faith and purpose; and

Whereas, she serves faithfully alongside her husband, Dr.       Jamal H. Bryant, as First Lady of New Birth Missionary       Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia--one of the Nation's most       influential congregations advancing ministry initiatives that       uplift families, strengthen communities, and inspire faith-      based leadership; and

Whereas, Dr. Bryant exemplifies grace, resilience, and       authenticity, inspiring others through her faith,       scholarship, entrepreneurship, and national recognition,       including the Presidential Lifetime Achievement Award; and

Therefore, be it resolved that we, Florida's 20th       Congressional District, proudly recognize and honor Dr. Karri       Bryant during Women's History Month for her outstanding       leadership, dedication, and service, inspiring others through       her example of integrity, faith, and achievement.