Suicide Prevention for Our Veterans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700415/suicide-prevention-for-our-veterans


Mrs. CHERFILUS-McCORMICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize our  veterans. They protect us in conflict. They wear the uniform. They  stand watch in places that most of us will never see, and then they  come home to stand in line.

In my district, the wait time for new mental health appointments is  31 days. It is 31 days. When you are battling an  invisible wound, 31 days isn't a wait list. It is a countdown or even  condemnation.

We say that the statistics have gotten better, but better is  unacceptable. There are more than 16 million veterans in the United  States. More than 1.5 million veterans call Florida home. They are our  neighbors, our children, and our parents.

Still, on average, one veteran dies by suicide every 65 minutes. By  the time we go to bed tonight, 17 chairs will sit empty at dinner  tables across America. That is 17 folded flags and 17 families staring  at their phones that will never ring again. It is not because they  weren't strong enough. It is not because they didn't fight hard enough,  but it is because we didn't fight hard enough to give them the services  that they deserve and need.

If we can send our sons and our daughters into harm's way, then it is  our duty to ensure that they have access to counseling, crisis  services, and the dignity of timely care when they come home.

To our veterans who are watching, they are not alone. Their service  mattered, and in this Congress, their lives matter during and after,  too.

Mr. Speaker, our veterans are not lost, and they are always in our  hearts. They upheld their duty to us, and now it is our duty to uphold  our promise to them--not in 31 days, not tomorrow, but today and now.

To all of our veterans and our VSOs who are here visiting on the  Hill, we thank them for their service and their courage, and we will  never stop fighting for them until we fulfill our promise to them.