DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4922 so that we  may redefine what is considered to be a youth offender from 24 years to  18 years and repeal the D.C. criminal court provision that allows  youthful offenders to receive sentences less than the mandatory minimum  required by law.

There is no question that there has been a crime epidemic across the  District of Columbia, and the citizens of this great city deserve  better. President Trump recognized this fact and has exercised his  authority to restore safety. It is now time for Congress to build on  his good work.

H.R. 4922 is designed to begin to address many of the problems that  stem from the D.C. courts and their refusal to hold criminals  accountable. We need to start with recognizing that 19- to 24-year-olds  shouldn't be treated as youthful offenders.

Local news has recently reported that the number of juveniles  arrested in Washington, D.C., has increased every year since 2020 and  that 60 percent of carjackings in the District in 2025 so far are for  those over 20 years old.

Knowing that the District of Columbia currently classifies anyone 24  years or younger as a youth offender, it is fair to ask how many of  these so-called youthful offenders running rampant, terrorizing the  hardworking people of Washington, D.C., are actually adults and should  be tried as such. The situation is untenable and should not be  tolerated in a civilized society.

I am, therefore, pleased to support the solutions presented by H.R.  4922, including the establishment of a website on District of  Columbia's juvenile crime statistics.

Passage of this bill will go a long way to correcting the broken,  soft-on-crime policies here in Washington, D.C., that coddle criminals  and place at risk the good, honest, and hardworking people who call the  District home.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Donalds for sponsoring this  important legislation and applaud Chairman Comer for his steadfast  leadership on this critically important issue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting  H.R. 4922.