Destroying Unnecessary, Misaligned, and Prohibitive Red Tape Act


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the DUMP  Red Tape Act and thank Representative Wied for his leadership on this  crucial deregulatory initiative.

In addition to regulations that are promulgated pursuant to the  Administrative Procedure Act, there exists a vast scope of additional  regulatory documents that impact small businesses. These are guidance  documents, memoranda, bulletins, circulars, letters, and more, which  Wayne Crews, a fellow in regulatory studies at the Competitive  Enterprise Institute, has more properly referred to as regulatory dark  matter.

Only rules that are adopted pursuant to the APA actually carry the  force of law. Yet, in practice, agencies seek to skew the intent of  congressional law and impose other requirements through this regulatory  dark matter, thereby avoiding compliance with the APA requirements.

Identifying the full scope of the regulatory state as it exists  through this dark matter is not only a challenge for Congress and the  agencies themselves but for our small businesses, as well.

Under the first Trump administration, agencies cataloged or attempted  to catalog all of these various guidance documents, but as soon as he  took office, President Biden stripped away this essential transparency  measure in the early days.

The reality is that reforming the regulatory state begins with  identifying its true magnitude, and that is an exercise which Congress  simply cannot do alone.

The deregulatory agenda President Trump instituted, which resulted in  the creation of the SBA Office of Advocacy's Red Tape Hotline, captures  this reality.

It does so by creating a forum by which to partner with the small  businesses of America, who can identify sector-specific regulations  that impose undue regulatory compliance challenges and costs.

By voting for the DUMP Red Tape Act, we can codify this hotline and  the essential role that it plays and make permanent this partnership  with America's small businesses in a much-needed deregulatory effort.

Federal regulation's total compliance costs and economic effects are  at least $2.155 trillion, which equates to over $16,000 in annual  hidden regulatory costs to the American taxpayer. If we truly care  about affordability, about the economy, about small businesses and  their consumers, then there is no better policy than deregulation, and  this bill will further empower the SBA Office of Advocacy in  coordination with the small businesses that it represents.

Mr. Speaker, I thank again Representative Wied and Chairman Williams  for their leadership on this important issue, and I urge my colleagues  to vote in favor.