-9999


Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, on Saturday, America witnessed another  horrific tragedy in Minneapolis when Alex Pretti was shot and killed by  Department of Homeland Security law enforcement agents.

By all accounts--all accounts--Alex was a dedicated member of his  community. He served as an intensive care nurse at the Veterans Affairs  clinic in Minneapolis.

On Saturday, he was simply exercising his rights as an American--the  very same rights for those veterans that he fought to protect. He used  his First Amendment right of free speech to show up for his community  and record interactions between Homeland Security officers and his  neighbors. When agents became violent with a female protester, he  stepped in to protect her.

He also exercised his Second Amendment right to bear arms. Despite no  evidence that he was threatening anyone or holding anything but a phone  in his hands, officers still shot him repeatedly and killed him.

The American people have watched the videos. They have seen with  their own eyes the evidence of DHS's unjustified behavior and excessive  use of force. But mere moments after the shots were fired, DHS  officials jumped to the claim that Mr. Pretti was a domestic terrorist  and an assassin who wanted to massacre law enforcement.

I want to be very clear on this. Those statements are lies. They are  lies used to justify the unjustifiable actions of some DHS officers.

The blatant lies of DHS leadership and misconduct by the officers  involved in the killings of Alex Pretti and Renee Good are  indefensible, and they cannot stand. They violate the public trust and  stand in direct opposition to the values and the professionalism of  many Federal law enforcement officers who follow the law and serve with  integrity every day.

Since these tragic events, people from every corner of America have  made their voices heard. My office has heard from thousands of  Michiganders about their outrage at the fatal shootings of both Renee  Good and Alex Pretti.

The American people's message is loud and it is clear: They are fed  up with the Trump administration's mishandling of immigration  enforcement, and they are demanding--they are demanding--that we do  something about it.

Americans have every right to be enraged. I am outraged, and every  Member of this Chamber should also be enraged. This is certainly not  the country that I grew up in, and this is certainly not the country  that we can leave to the next generation.

In this moment, we have no choice but to stand up for our  communities, for Renee Good, for Alex Pretti, and for the very  principles that our country was founded on. That is why I will be  voting no on the bill before us unless--unless--DHS funding is stripped  out or unless critical reforms are incorporated into the bill.

If the leader put the other five appropriation bills on the floor  today, they would pass. They would pass with bipartisan support-- overwhelming bipartisan support. The DHS components have unique but  important functions beyond immigration enforcement--securing our  borders, combating human trafficking, seizing deadly narcotics being  smuggled into our country, and facilitating trade and travel--but  personnel from these components have been pulled from their core  missions and have instead been pressured to focus exclusively on  arbitrary quotas and removing immigrants from our country, even those  who pose no serious threat to public safety.

This corruption of DHS's mission has directly contributed to the  chaos and violence we have seen in Minneapolis and communities all  across our country. That is why Senate Democrats are calling for  commonsense reforms--reforms like ensuring DHS officers wear clear  identification so people know who they are dealing with in law  enforcement and can hold them accountable; requiring DHS personnel to  wear body cameras so we have proper recordings of their conduct in  immigration enforcement; and requiring proper investigations after  tragedies occur like the recent shootings of both Renee Good and Alex  Pretti.

These are just a few of the examples of commonsense practices that  strengthen accountability and help ensure the safety of both law  enforcement and our communities. Our local law enforcement personnel  already follow them, and we shouldn't expect anything less from our  Federal law enforcement.

There is no question that immigration enforcement is necessary, but  we must conduct it in a way that is both humane and safe. Clearly, that  is not how this Agency is operating today.

Now--now--is the time to act, and I urge our Republican colleagues to  join us in putting real guardrails in place and not just acting as a  rubberstamp for the Trump administration.