Nomination of Linda McMahon


Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise today in opposition to Linda  McMahon's nomination to serve as the Secretary of the Department of  Education.

All across America, from small towns like Grand Marais to cities like  Grand Rapids, public schools serve as the bedrock of our communities.

As a product of Michigan public schools, the son of a public  schoolteacher, and having watched my own three children attend public  schools, I know firsthand the importance of public education.

Education is the cornerstone of academic achievement, career  development, and lifelong learning in our society. A strong public  education system is critical to not only our Nation's economy but  community safety, social mobility, and the health of our democracy.

We need a Secretary of Education who values and respects public  education and the millions of teachers and faculty who support the  system.

We need a Secretary of Education who will support critical funding  streams like Head Start for early education, IDEA for students with  disabilities, and the school meal program that ensures that no  student--no student--goes to class hungry.

That is why we cannot allow Mrs. McMahon to run our Department of  Education. Instead of working to protect funding for the programs that  support our students, improve classrooms, and help recruit the hard- working teachers that we so desperately need today, Mrs. McMahon has  made it clear that she has, well, other priorities.

During her committee hearing, she blatantly supported efforts to  dismantle our education system, including taking funding away from our  public schools and using it to make investments in private schools.  Mrs. McMahon and others have tried to sell this as ``school choice,''  but we know--we know--that it is basically a voucher program that will  ultimately give private schools the ability to hand pick students and  close their doors to everyone else. Private schools have no requirement  to serve students with disabilities, students with mental health needs,  or homeless students.

We have already seen private school voucher programs fail in States  that have actually implemented them, like Louisiana--Louisiana, where  students who accepted vouchers experienced significant declines in  their academic performance, worse than the learning loss caused by the  COVID-19 pandemic and Hurricane Katrina.

So-called school choice does not meet the needs of our students, and  American voters overwhelmingly agree. A 2024 poll found that less than  a quarter of Americans support increasing funding for school vouchers.  Meanwhile, 68 percent of Americans want to boost public school funding  to better support teachers and give our opportunities and children the  education and career opportunities that they certainly deserve.

Under Mrs. McMahon's plan, we would be letting private schools decide  who is educated and who is not. But, unfortunately, we know that these  private institutions will always prioritize their bottom line, and the  needs of students and families will be second.

If confirmed as Secretary of Education, the quality of our American  education will certainly decline, and our children will ultimately  suffer the consequences.

I would urge my colleagues to vote no on Mrs. McMahon's nomination.