Rescissions Act of 2025


Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today, we are debating President Trump's  disastrous proposal to cut more than $9 billion in funding that  Congress has already approved for local public broadcasting and foreign  assistance.

Not only is this bill harmful to communities in Michigan, as well as  all across the country, but it also risks undermining a key part of our  democratic process.

President Trump and his crony--Budget Director Russ Vought--are  trying to undercut the voice of everyday Americans in our government  through this process.

Americans sent us here to represent them and to act in their best  interest. That is why our Constitution gives Congress--not the  President--the sole power to make laws, including the power of the  purse. And that is why lawmakers routinely come together to decide, on  a bipartisan basis, how to allocate Federal funding in a way that best  serves the people who live in our States.

I am proud to take part in that important process as a member of the  Senate Appropriations Committee. And I am proud that my Democratic and  Republican colleagues in the committee are working hard to advance  commonsense, bipartisan funding bills that will meet the needs of all  of our communities.

But Donald Trump wants to throw these bills out the window so he can  pick which communities win and which communities lose when it comes to  Federal resources.

Funding laws are still laws, and Congress passed these laws with  bipartisan support to direct resources to these programs. No President  gets unilateral say on how any law is implemented, and no President  gets to overrule Congress's bipartisan laws.

But the legislation pending before the Senate today would open up a  slippery slope that would undercut Congress's authority, rob our  communities of important resources, and ultimately erode the voice of  the American people who elect their Members of Congress to make these  decisions in their best interests.

We have to put our foot down because we know it will not stop here.  Today it is funding for local public media, but tomorrow it could be  funding for infectious disease research, public education, or weather  forecasting--all on the chopping block.

They have made it pretty clear that folks just want to cut rather  than leading our government in a way that makes our constituents' lives  better.

We saw it at the beginning of this year, when the administration  froze funds that Congress passed into law to support local  infrastructure upgrades, cancer research, childcare programs, opioid  addiction centers, and so many more.

Just a few weeks ago, the administration froze a ton of funding that  Congress passed for summer school and afterschool programs. And again  with the ``Big Bad Bill'' that our Republican colleagues just passed,  President Trump signed into law a bill that gutted funding for critical  resources like Medicaid and SNAP, ripping healthcare and food  assistance from millions of Americans, all to cover the cost for their  massive tax cut for billionaires.

And, now today, Republicans are trying to bypass once again  bipartisan laws--laws that many of them voted for themselves--so they  can rubberstamp another round of President Trump's harmful cuts.

Let's take a look at the harm that these cuts will do. Take the  proposed elimination of funding for public broadcasting. This would  eliminate the single most important source of funding for local radio  and TV stations that focus on providing high-quality, community- centered content.

When local public media stations from Grand Rapids to Marquette see a  huge chunk of their budget eliminated by this bill, they will, at a  minimum, be forced to let people go. These are Michiganders who are  just trying to keep their friends and neighbors informed on what is  happening in their local communities. Families will no longer have 24/7  access to Michigan's Learning Channel, which provides educational math  and literacy content for children all across my State.

But the biggest harm that these funding cuts will have on our  communities is the impact to emergency response and public safety.

Many of Michigan's public TV and radio stations are responsible for  broadcasting emergency alerts during national disasters like tornadoes,  wildfires, or severe flooding. When catastrophic ice storms swept  through northern Michigan earlier this year, it was local radio  stations that literally saved lives by broadcasting emergency warnings  to folks after commercial towers went down.

These alerts are critical, particularly in rural communities where  these local public stations are often the only ones available to reach  people during an emergency.

WNMU out of Marquette is the only source of emergency alert services  for over 250,000 residents in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. This singular  station covers an area larger than Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode  Island, and Delaware combined. If Republicans pass this disastrous  bill, those communities will be left in the dark when the next  emergency strikes.

Local public media also plays an important role in supporting  national security and law enforcement efforts. In the Thumb region,  Delta College Public Media hosts transmitters for the FBI and the Coast  Guard to ensure that they can effectively communicate during emergency  situations. Eliminating funding for that partnership, as this bill  would do, is quite literally putting American lives and the homeland at  risk.

And don't get me wrong. I am all for reducing waste and making sure  that we are spending taxpayer dollars efficiently, but gutting funding  for local stations that communities rely on to keep their families safe  is to cut corners that is absolutely detrimental to public safety.

So when President Trump--and his cronies like Russ Vought--say that  this bill targets government fraud, waste, and abuse--something that I  have spent my entire life fighting against--we know that it is just not  true.

Don't forget, they just passed a bill that is going to add $3  trillion to the deficit. They don't care about balancing the budget or  limiting waste. They want to cut services that American families depend  on so they can afford a bigger tax cut for the wealthiest Americans.

In addition to local broadcasting, this bill also will upend  bipartisan investments in foreign assistance that Congress made earlier  this year to maintain our global leadership and protect U.S. national  security interests.

While foreign assistance represents less than 1 percent of the  Federal Government, it provides critical benefits to our Nation. These  strategic investments help save American lives, reinforce our global  leadership, and support economic growth here in our country. Foreign  assistance helps protect global stability and prevent conflict that is  more costly for us in the long run. But this bill undermines those  strategic goals by compromising programs that have long received  bipartisan support.

Funding for programs like Feed the Future and efforts to counter  Russian and Chinese influence have been cut in this bill. These  programs just don't support communities abroad, they actually stimulate  local businesses and economies right here at home. Feed the Future,  which is a part of the U.S. Agency for International Development,  supports local farmers by purchasing their products and distributing  them to people in need around the globe. If Republicans pass this bill,  those farmers will lose.

Feed the Future also partners with universities and colleges across  the United States to operate innovation labs that draw on their  expertise to tackle the world's biggest challenges to food security.

Institutions like Michigan State University conduct cutting-edge  agricultural research to help farmers grow better products that support  Americans. These partnerships also provide training opportunities for  the next generation of researchers to help maintain America's  competitiveness. If this bill passes, MSU will lose.

But Michigan State University is not alone. Institutions across the  country in States like Kansas, Alabama, Mississippi, Texas, Louisiana,  Oklahoma, North Carolina, and many more will also have their vital  research projects canceled.

Foreign assistance is designed to prevent the need for more costly  interventions down the line. This bill will undo the success of past  generations of Americans and damage our geopolitical standing, all to  save just a fraction of our Nation's annual budget while doing serious  damage to American leadership across the globe.

But the bigger picture here is that Republicans are allowing Donald  Trump to bypass Congress and the bipartisan laws that we pass right  here.

Every year Congress tirelessly negotiates bipartisan funding bills,  and each side makes compromises. But if one party can simply rip up  those bipartisan funding agreements by enacting one-sided decisions  like what my Republican colleagues are going to be doing here, the  appropriations process will simply break down.

How can we be assured that these bipartisan agreements are being made  in good faith if Republicans are just going to turn their backs on them  just a few months later? How can we be sure that the funding laws we  pass will help all of our communities succeed if our Republican  colleagues will simply let President Trump pick who wins and who loses  when it comes to Federal support?

President Trump's Budget Director Russ Vought has already made it  clear that he won't stop with this rescission effort. He just opened  the door to undercutting the bipartisan funding laws that Congress  passed, and there is no telling where he and President Trump will stop  if they succeed here.

Congress is meant to be an independent branch of the government from  the Presidency, with our own unique powers. Making decisions about how  the Federal Government should allocate its resources is one of those  powers that belongs solely to Congress under the U.S. Constitution.

What we do today will either reaffirm that Congress makes the laws,  or it will show how quickly our Republican colleagues will roll over  and rubberstamp whatever Donald Trump wants, no matter--no matter--what  harm it will do to the people that they represent.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this harmful bill.