Welcoming Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew


Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise to offer remarks to welcome His  All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to the United States. He  is the spiritual head of the second largest Christian Church in the  world and the leader of over 1 million Greek Orthodox in the United  States, including many of my constituents in the State of Michigan.  Michigan is home to a vibrant Greek Orthodox community, whose presence  in the State stretches all the way back to the late 1800s with the  arrival of the first Greek immigrants to Michigan. Today, the community  is represented across the State, with 23 parishes spanning from metro  Detroit to the Upper Peninsula.

His All-Holiness is in the United States this month to meet with the  President and Members of the House and Senate leadership. He is also  set to receive the distinguished Templeton Prize for his years of  dedicated service as Ecumenical Patriarch. Throughout this time, His  All-Holiness has sought to bring together people of all faiths to  combat religious intolerance and enhance understanding between the  faiths.

One of his major efforts during his first years as Patriarch was to  convene an interfaith international conference on peace and religious  tolerance in Istanbul. The conference brought together faith leaders  from around the world to find ways to encourage understanding and  peaceful coexistence. Moreover, he has advanced Christian-Muslim  relations by advocating for peace-building measures in conflict  affected regions like the Balkans.

The Templeton Prize is not the first recognition His-Holiness has  received for his years of profound service. The Patriarch has also been  honored by the United Nations, the European Union, and dozens of  governments, universities, and institutions for his bold efforts to  promote peace and understanding, especially between the East and West.  In 1997, he was honored in Washington, DC, with the Congressional Gold  Medal, the highest congressional award.

Once again, I would like to extend a warm welcome to His All-Holiness  Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew. His work to strengthen ties between  communities of differing faiths is critical in helping combat religious  intolerance.