-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694235/9999


Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. President, last week, I stood here and introduced a  simple resolution calling on the Justice Department to release the  Epstein files, but a Republican Senator blocked it.

In the week since, even more damning information has come out, and  now we know exactly why Trump is bending over backwards to keep these  files hidden.

We know that Epstein was at Trump's wedding. We know that Epstein  once called Trump his ``closest friend for 10 years.'' And we have seen  that Trump wrote Epstein a birthday card and said:

``Happy Birthday--and may every day be another wonderful secret.''

And the real kicker, we learned yesterday that Trump is in the  Epstein files, and he knows it. The truth is coming out, and the  coverup is crumbling. So I am here again, and my request is very  simple. The Senate should go on record supporting the release of the  Epstein files. Any effort to block their release is simply continued  coverup for our Nation's elites.

While I stand here on the Senate floor demanding answers, House  Republicans have run for the exit, ended their term early, skipping  town early to avoid taking up any more discussion about Epstein and the  files. They didn't just punt accountability; they literally fled  Washington, DC.

While everyday Americans are struggling to afford their groceries and  their healthcare, we have a President in the White House focused on  protecting the most powerful men and women who preyed on children. This  is who Donald Trump really is. He campaigned as a man of the people.  When it comes down to it, he is a servant of the powerful and the  elite. He built a movement claiming to fight those same elites, and now  he is protecting them every way possible.

The American people are seeing right through it. They spent years  listening to Trump promise--promise--that he was going to release the  Epstein files, and now he is mocking them every day for even believing  him and all his lies. But the American people are not stupid. They know  something is off. They smell it.

If Donald Trump really wants these files released, they would be out  already. Instead, he is orchestrating a coverup, and he is not acting  alone. The entire Republican Party, the FBI Director, the intelligence  community, and the Justice Department are backing him up to bury the  truth. They are doing everything they can to keep the truth buried  because they know who is in those documents, and they want to protect  them and his friends.

So, today, I am calling on my colleagues to stand with me and stand  on the side of the American people--not the pedophile elites that they  are trying to protect--and call on the Justice Department to release  these files. It is that simple. If there is nothing to hide, then come  out and prove it.

Res.

Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. President, in response to the Senator from Oklahoma,  the reason we are here, the reason why there is a request of this  nature is because there is one and only one administration and one  campaign that ran more than 8 years that vilified--  vilified--DOJ employees that were consistently trying to do their best  job and started a conspiracy theory that has affected hundreds of  people across this country, a conspiracy theory that caused people to  start doing shootings at pizza places, that accused other people and  other politicians of being pedophiles and then said and campaigned that  ``If you elect me, I will release the files.'' That was only one  campaign, and that was the Trump campaign.

So now, as he is in power, as he has gotten power, he has  specifically said he would release it in campaign. He had an Attorney  General that said: I have the files on my desk right now, and I will be  releasing it.

As soon as we heard--first from Elon Musk--that Trump himself was in  the files, all of a sudden, we started seeing the coverup starting.  First he wasn't. Then he was. Then it was created by somebody else.  Then it is coming after him.

This is all because the President has to answer to the American  public.

Did you lie for those 8 years and put all these employees, all these  innocent people at risk to cover up for your elite friends? Or is there  something in the file you are trying to hide to protect your friends?

This whole issue started because of only one person, and one campaign  has made this a campaign issue. That is why the American public is  demanding this. That is why the Republican House of Representatives has  fled Washington, DC--Washington, DC. I have not seen, have not heard of  the House of Representatives leaving Washington, DC, since we had to  get away from the redcoats, but that is what happened because this  President wants to avoid accountability, and this President wants to  continue to cover up for his elite friends.

Mr. GALLEGO.  My colleague from  Oklahoma refused to join me in calling on the DOJ to release all the  Epstein files. Instead, he offered his own resolution calling on the  courts to unseal the records.

When asked if it did both, which I am asking to do both--I want to  call for transparency, and, of course, we could ask the Justice  Department and the courts--he is also going to object.

Republicans are demanding that the courts be transparent but aren't  willing to ask the same thing of the Trump DOJ. This is the height of  hypocrisy. They want to tell the courts to be transparent but aren't  willing for themselves to be transparent.

This is the second time in 1 week the Senate had the chance to demand  transparency and stand up for the truth. Instead, my colleagues chose  to protect, again, the powerful elites.

If there is truly nothing to hide in those files, then what are they  so afraid of? What are they hiding? Why the panic? Why the  backpedaling? Why all the objections?

Congress should work for the people, not the powerful elites and  definitely not for one man or one administration. Today's resolution  should have made that clear.

Therefore, I ask that the unanimous consent request be modified such  that my resolution, S. Res.  Res. 335 and S. Res. 325; and that the resolutions  be agreed to, the preambles be agreed to, and the motions to reconsider  be considered made and laid upon the table with no intervening action  or debate, all en bloc.

Mr. GALLEGO.  The political theater was started more than  8 years ago--the political theater started just 5 months ago when the  President said, after appointing his Attorney General, that they are  going to release the Epstein files; when the Attorney General said ``I  have those files right here; I am going to show them to you,'' and  then, all of a sudden, the shenanigans started. All of a sudden, the  files are gone; they are not there; they were made up by somebody else.  That is where this political theater is coming from.

The American public wants to know why. Why, after 8 years of this  President promising that ``I will release the files''; why after 8  years, getting into the office and then appointing his Attorney General  and then directing the Attorney General to go look for those Epstein  files and that Attorney General saying they are going to release the  Epstein files and then poof--all of a sudden, there is an issue. All of  a sudden, there is backpedaling.

This is what stinks for the American public. This is what smells like  an elite coverup. That is what we are trying to get to.

If my good colleague from Oklahoma agreed with me, then we would do  both because that is what is being demanded by the American public,  because the first promise was made by this President that they were  going to release the files. That is where this political theater  started.