Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700668/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. President, 12 days ago, Donald Trump took us to war  against Iran. Since then, 7 American servicemembers have been killed,  and 140 more have been wounded. Instead of protecting our troops, Trump  is making it easier for enemies to kill them.

None of us are mourning Ayatollah Khamenei. The moment this war  started, oil prices spiked. Anyone who has looked at a map knows that a  war in the Middle East affects oil prices. It has happened every single  time. But apparently no one at the White House looked at the map. So  now, American families, who are already struggling to put food on the  table, are paying 20 percent more for gas because of Trump's war.

The administration's response to the crisis they created is to back  off sanctions on Russian oil. So American families are hurting while  Trump is making more money for Vladimir Putin. The administration has  given Russia a lifeline just as they needed it.

U.S. officials confirmed last week that Russia is sharing  intelligence with Iran to help target U.S. servicemembers. Russia is  telling Iran where our troops are and where the military assets are.  Just think about that. Russia is giving Iran a map to find and kill  Americans, and in our response, we are going to allow them to sell  their oil to other countries to fund their war machines--all while  Steve Witkoff, the President's envoy, is happy to take Putin, a  professionally trained liar, at his word when he says they aren't  sharing intel with Iran.

We started a war with Iran, and we are now rewarding the ones that  are helping shoot us. How is this putting America first? How many times  do we have to remind this President that Putin is not our friend?

This is what happens when the administration starts a war without a  plan. They are scrambling to clean up their mess and thinking twice  about the consequences.

I know the consequences because I have lived them. Twenty-one years  ago, I was a Marine infantryman in the Al Anbar Province of Western  Iraq. Every day, someone was trying to kill us. I lost a lot of best  friends there. That is why I am standing together with you here today-- because I know what happens when we send soldiers into harm's way  without thinking through what comes next and what we are asking these  kids to do. And I know the people who pay for wars are never the  politicians who started them; it is the American people, the kids from  working-class neighborhoods who enlisted and their families.

What this administration did was not just wrong; it was illegal.

In 2017, Congress passed the Countering America's Adversaries Through  Sanctions Act--signed by Trump himself--requiring the White House to  notify Congress before making any significant change to U.S. policy  toward Russia. We passed a law because we understood that decisions of  this magnitude--decisions that touch our national security and affect  the safety of our troops--require transparency and accountability. They  require someone to be able to look the American people in the eye and  explain themselves.

But this administration did not notify Congress. Apparently, this  administration doesn't think it owes anyone any explanation. They don't  think they owe the troops they are putting in danger any explanation at  all, and they don't think they owe the families of the seven Americans  who are not coming home an explanation. They are making it up as they  go and asking Americans to pay for it with their lives.

If this administration wants to bring gas prices down, stop the war.