Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698605/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-air-plan-approval-south-dakota


Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. President, 25 years ago, I made the best decision of  my life and became a U.S. marine. I fought in Lima Company 3/25  alongside some of the bravest men I have ever known, and some of my  closest friends didn't make it back. Coming home, knowing it was for an  illegal war for oil was devastating, and it is still devastating. And  now, 20 years later, here we are again at that same crossroads. We  cannot blindly go into another illegal war for oil. I know I am not the  only one--not the only veteran seeing the parallels: the oil, the  regime change, quick declaration of victory without a long-term plan.  And we do not want our country to go down this path again.

Of course, we know Venezuela has different geopolitical realities,  and this won't go down exactly as what we saw in Iraq. But what is the  same is this: Trump's reckless use of military power without a plan for  what comes next or respect for the men and women who will be sent to  fight this war--will engage in it--is going to cause problems.

He has shown us he could care less about the Iraq and Afghanistan  veterans who are screaming from the rooftops right now not to make this  mistake again. If we allow this to continue, I will have to look into  the eyes of young men and women in Arizona--working-class kids like  everywhere in this country who are disproportionately the ones who  serve in our military--and explain what they are risking their lives  for.

And I can't because it is for oil.

The American public does not want this. They do not want to be the  world police. They don't want their sons and daughters from Florida,  from Arizona, from New Mexico, from New York sent to fight for Big Oil.  They don't want another forever war, and that is the slippery slope we  are going down right now.

When I talk to people in Arizona, they want their politicians to  focus on healthcare, on housing, on work--so kids actually have a job  when they graduate college--not these oil companies in Venezuela. That  is what Trump campaigned on. But that is what Trump is now saying he is  going to do, invest in oil instead of Americans.

Who does this war really benefit? It is clearly not the American  people--Trump has done little to help them--but certainly to help Big  Oil and to satisfy trigger-happy neocons like Marco Rubio. This is  exactly the moment that Marco Rubio has been itching for, and he played  Donald Trump like a puppet. Marco Rubio came into the Senate and lied  straight to our faces when he said this was not about regime change.  That was not true.

And now, it is clear to everyone that regime change was always the  goal. That is exactly why I introduced a War Powers Resolution last  month--because I knew this moment was coming. The Constitution is  clear. Only Congress has the authority to decide when to go to war.  Whatever you call this something we are in right now--whatever spin  Marco Rubio puts on it--at the end of the day, when people are  shooting, it is war. When the President deploys the power of the U.S.  military, it is war.

Now, the Trump administration has to answer to what comes next. They  must tell us who will govern Venezuela or how this will end. And they  just can't do that now.

As a veteran, that terrifies me, and it should terrify you. This is  the same trigger-happy neocon logic that dragged us into Iraq, into a  forever war killing thousands and thousands of Americans, many of them  my friends. And the American people have been clear that we do not want  to be in another forever war.