Tribute in Honor of Wayne Martin


Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a  Kentucky icon and longtime friend, Wayne Martin from Winchester,  Kentucky. Throughout his career, Wayne built a stellar legacy of  excellence in broadcasting, basketball and education, developing a wide  network of fans, friends and business partners across our Commonwealth.

In Kentucky, basketball royalty is a highly coveted currency at the  collegiate level, something that Wayne Martin obtained at multiple  institutions. As head coach of the men's basketball team at his alma  mater Morehead State University (MSU) from 1978 to 1987, he led the  Eagles to two NCAA tournaments. During his stent as head coach and  athletic director of then-Pikeville College, his teams earned three  impressive national tournament trips, bringing great pride to the  Kentucky Appalachian Mountains. He also served as assistant basketball  coach at Oral Roberts University in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and head  basketball coach and business teacher at Pikeville Hjgh School.

After investing 20 years in education and coaching student athletes,  Wayne transitioned from earning a spot on the nightly news and sports  highlights to broadcasting them for Gray Television stations in  Kentucky. He began his broadcast news career as General Sales Manager  and General Manager of WYMT-TV in Hazard, Kentucky. As a former  successful coach, Wayne always had an effective game plan, and he used  it to move up the ranks quickly in the television news industry. He  served as President and General Manager of WKYT-TV from 1993 to 2013,  where he expanded news programming and earned Lexington's first Emmy  Award for station excellence. He was also promoted as Regional Vice  President of Television for Gray Television, Inc. and President of Gray  Kentucky Television, Inc., operating WKYT-TV in Lexington, WYMT-TV in  Hazard, WBKO-TV in Bowling Green and President of WVLT-TV in Knoxville,  Tennessee.

In addition to an Emmy Award, Wayne has earned a number of accolades,  including Ohio Valley Conference (OVC) Coach of the Year in 1982, OVC  Hall of Fame Inductee in 2004, MSU Athletic Hall of Fame Inductee in  1995, the 2017 MSU Distinguished Alumni Award, and most recently, the  MSU Founders Award for University Service in 2025.

Wayne has used his legacy on the sidelines and the power of the  airwaves to give back to the Commonwealth that he so deeply cherishes.  He hosted annual fundraisers for the Cardinal Hill Rehabilitation  Hospital in Lexington, chaired both the United Way board of directors  and the annual campaign, and served as chairman of the Children's  Advocacy Center board of directors. His expert gameplans have also been  sought after by the Kentucky and the Greater Lexington Chambers of  Commerce, Morehead State University Board of Regents, Kentucky  Broadcaster's Association, Governor's Scholars Foundation, Central  Bancshares, Baptist Health, Kentucky-American Water Company, and the  American Heart Association.

Wayne has mentored young entrepreneurs, student athletes and  journalists who have become respected leaders in their fields and  established exceptional businesses across the state. His coaching  success and business expertise have been of great value to Kentuckians,  building an endearing and longlasting fan base that I am honored to be  a part of. I salute Wayne for investing in the lives of countless  student athletes and giving Eastern Kentucky so much to be proud of.