The Economy


Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, moms and dads across America are having a  little trouble sleeping these days. And when moms and dads in America  lie down to sleep at night and they can't, they are worried. They are  worried about things like the cost of living. They are worried about  things like the cost of housing. They are worried about things like  their insurance premiums going up. They are wondering if it is ever  going to get any better. They are tired of having to pay more, live  worse. They are worried that eventually they are going to have to sell  blood to go to the grocery store.

Why are they feeling that? It is called inflation. And the inflation  started under President Biden. As we know, it got to 9 percent. I won't  go into the reasons why. We are doing better. We got it down to 3  percent. When you get inflation down from 9 percent to 3 percent, that  is called disinflation.

What is disinflation? It just means disinflation is when the rate of  inflation decreases, in this case from 9 percent to roughly 3 percent.  Disinflation doesn't mean prices are going down. It just means that  prices are rising less quickly. Under President Biden, they were rising  at 9 percent. Now they are only rising at 3 percent.

In order for prices to actually go down, we would have to have  deflation--not disinflation but deflation. We have to be careful what  we wish for because deflation comes with some pretty severe  consequences. We can get prices down through deflation, if we go into a  recession, if you raise unemployment, allow unemployment to rise to  about 8 or 9 percent where people lose their jobs. We are witnessing  deflation right now in China. For kids in China who just got out of  college, their unemployment rate is 25 percent. That is why their  prices are going down.

There is a better way to help people deal with disinflation. That is  to get their incomes up through tax reform, through regulatory reform,  through designing a healthcare delivery system that looks like somebody  designed the damn thing on purpose. And that is what we ought to be  working on. If we--I don't have control of the floor. If I had control  of the floor, I would be here every single day introducing bills. I see  Senator Reed here. He would be doing the same thing, introducing bills  to help the American people. But I don't have control of the floor.

I am not criticizing the people who do. That is above my pay grade. I  am labor. They are management. But I know this, first, if we will ever  get to do that, I will ask our Democratic friends to join with us. They  may or may not. I don't know. But if they decline to join with us, then  through reconciliation, which is how we passed the One Big Beautiful  Bill, we can pass these measures to increase wages for the American  people with a majority vote. We won't need Democratic votes. That is  what we did with the One Big Beautiful Bill, and we can do it two more  times before the midterm elections. We passed the One Big Beautiful  Bill on July 1.

In the meantime, I am not saying we haven't been doing important  things, but we haven't been working on a plan to help people deal with  the cost of living, and we should be.

So I am going to end like I ended the last time. I am saying to the  powers that be: Pretty please, with sugar on top--I will add a cherry.  I have even got an old McDonald's McRib coupon somewhere, and I will  throw that into the mix too. Please bring another reconciliation bill.  Please. Let's deal with the problems that are causing moms and dads to  lie awake when they lie down to sleep at night and can't.

I went on too long. I apologize to Senator Reed.

I yield to my friend Senator Reed from the wonderful State of Rhode  Island.