Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.J.  Res. 35, legislation I proudly cosponsored to stand up for North  Dakota's energy producers and hardworking families who depend on  affordable, reliable energy.

For my first action as a Member of Congress, I wrote to President  Trump and Secretary Burgum urging them to repeal 20 unnecessary and  burdensome rules that threaten affordable, reliable energy, including  this rule.

The Biden administration's methane tax is a real attack on North  Dakota's energy sector, and it is really a tax on every aspect of our  lives. This tax was the number one concern of the energy stakeholders  in my State.

This heavy-handed Federal mandate punishes small and midsize  independent producers who are responsible for 90 percent of America's  natural gas. It threatens jobs, raises costs for families, and  jeopardizes our energy independence.

North Dakota leads the way in responsible energy production, not  because of government mandates but because of innovation and  technology. My State is proof that we don't have to choose between a  strong economy and a clean environment. We can and do have both.

This tax will have a huge impact on our energy sectors who already  produce the cleanest energy in the world. This natural gas tax  threatens American energy security, and we will be forced to rely on  adversaries to meet our energy needs, countries that do not have strong  labor or environmental laws.

This tax hurts energy producers who are already doing it right.  America is leading the way in reducing emissions.

Since 2015, upstream oil and gas producers have reduced their methane  emissions by 42 percent. Our innovation and technology have allowed us  to reduce emissions while raising the standard of living across this  country.

American energy solutions are clean energy solutions. We should be  unleashing U.S. energy production, not taxing it and not making it more  expensive and creating disincentives to production.