Supporting the Big, Beautiful Bill


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the leadership of both Mr.  Moore and Mr. Arrington. Both of them are great mentors to me as a new  Member. I hope I can aspire to be as strong as they are someday.

Working-class families, seniors on fixed incomes, farmers growing our  food, restaurant waitresses working double shifts, law enforcement  officers putting in overtime, manufacturers keeping the lights on, and  border communities shouldering a burden Washington created are who the  one big, beautiful bill is going to help.

Who are these people? These aren't the millionaires and billionaires.  These are everyday Americans. Despite what we hear from the Democrats  and the media over and over again, this bill isn't tax cuts for the  rich. It is not about eliminating healthcare for people who need it.

This big, beautiful bill is pro-family, pro-business and workers,  pro-American energy and agriculture, pro-border and national security.  Above all, it is pro-growth and pro-common sense.

Let me spend a few minutes talking about what that all means. Let's  talk first about pro-family. My husband, Mike, and I have three  children. Raising a family is one of life's greatest blessings and  biggest responsibilities. Government should not make it even harder.

That is why the tax relief is a top priority for Republicans in  Washington and is the centerpiece of the one big, beautiful bill. This  bill includes a commonsense tax package that extends existing tax  policy, avoiding the highest tax increase in U.S. history. That is  right. This bill just extends existing tax policy, improves it, and  avoids the highest tax increase in history.

It also enhances tax relief for working families. This one big,  beautiful bill lets North Dakotans and Americans keep more of their  hard-earned money.

A few key provisions include increasing the child tax credit to  $2,500 per child; raising the standard deduction for all filers;  establishing savings accounts for newborns; and creating a new  deduction on Social Security benefits for senior citizens.

For the average family of four in North Dakota, this package will  help save an estimated $1,600 in taxes. That buys about 8 weeks of  groceries. This is American money staying with the American family,  which is exactly where it belongs.

This bill is also pro-business. The one big, beautiful bill also  includes a long list of reforms and investments that will make America,  including our small businesses, stronger and more competitive.

Our goal is to reward entrepreneurship, to reward hard work, and to  grow the economy. For small businesses, we permanently increased the  small business deduction to 23 percent. This will impact 67,000 North  Dakota businesses.

This bill will allow 100 percent immediate expensing for equipment  and facility upgrades and raise the death tax exemption, helping  families pass down their farm or ranch to the next generation.

For workers, the one big, beautiful bill significantly reduces taxes  on tips and overtime. This lets servers, bartenders, and hourly workers  keep more of their money. This means that waitresses working late and  the factory worker picking up an extra shift will finally keep more of  what they earned.

It is time to bring common sense and competitiveness back to our  economy, which is exactly what this bill does.

I will talk a bit about energy and agriculture, big industries for my  State in North Dakota. We are slamming the breaks on the Biden  administration's radical energy agenda. The one big, beautiful bill  repeals over $500 billion in the style of Green New Deal spending and  boosts mineral development to reduce our reliance on China for critical  materials.

It ends electric vehicle mandates and subsidies funded by taxpayers  for wind and solar. This is a provision I have been working hard on  since I arrived in Congress.

I am especially excited by the provisions in the one big, beautiful  bill that support our North Dakota farmers and ranchers.

In addition to the tax provisions in the bill, which are very  important for our farmers and ranchers, this bill significantly  improves the core safety net and risk management tools by increasing  reference prices and improving crop insurance.

It expands flexibility for family farms to reinvest in equipment,  inputs, and labor. It renews 100 percent expensing for capital  purchases so producers can write off the cost of new machinery,  infrastructure improvements, or production facilities right away.

The bill also delivers on President Trump's promise to secure the  border and enhance national security.

This bill includes the largest investment in border security in over  a generation. There is nearly $150 billion to secure the border and  deport criminal illegal aliens. We are restoring order at the border  and restocking our military.  We increase pay, housing, and healthcare for our servicemembers. We  rebuild our naval fleet, modernize our air traffic control system, and  restock the munitions America needs to defend itself.

Finally, this bill is pro-common sense. There are no more student  loan bailouts, no more tax dollars for abortions or transgender  surgeries on minors, and no more benefits for illegal immigrants who  break our laws.

We are making universities pay more from their endowments, and we are  taxing nonprofits that support terrorism.

We even impose a small fee on electric vehicles because they use our  roads, too, and should help fund the highway trust fund.

It provides tax relief to Americans to exercise their Second  Amendment rights for the first time in history.

I was proud to help move this legislation forward because North  Dakotans and all Americans are tired of waste and overreach, and they  are ready for real results from Washington.

This is about more than fixing broken policies. It is about turning  the page on the last 4 years of dysfunction, division, and decline and  writing a new chapter where government once again serves the people,  where families can afford to grow, small businesses can afford to hire,  and rural communities can thrive without interference from Washington.

It is about restoring common sense, restoring accountability, and  rebuilding an America where people aren't just getting by. They are  getting ahead.

This bill puts working families first. It reins in bureaucracy. It  returns power to the people where it belongs.

Most importantly, this bill is just the beginning.

What an exciting time. I couldn't be happier to be here working with  these great leaders and bringing forward important legislation just  like this to make things better for America and the American people.