Work Highlights of Western Caucus


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to be here.  This little podium seems to have a mind of its own, so I will leave it  down so it doesn't scare us all again.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues in the Western Caucus for leading  the charge to strengthen rural America's future.

As a fourth-generation North Dakotan, I have seen how the hard work  of our energy and agriculture producers fuels our economy, strengthens  our communities, and secures our very way of life.

That is why on Monday, I introduced a resolution to overturn the  Biden administration's reinstatement of the Once-in-Always-in rule.  This is a shortsighted, bureaucratic mandate that punishes energy  producers, manufacturers, and small businesses for investing in  emissions reduction.

This rule permanently classifies certain industrial facilities as  major sources of hazardous air pollutants, even if they take meaningful  steps to reduce emissions below the Federal thresholds. That makes no  sense. Facilities that make major investments to reduce emissions  should be rewarded, not locked into outdated, costly regulations that  discourage further improvements.

By refusing to let businesses reclassify after making progress, this  rule removes any real incentive to invest in cleaner technologies.  Instead of supporting innovation, it sends a clear message: Don't even  bother.

Democrats like to use the mantra of hope and change. This regulatory  approach says there is no hope, so don't change. That is not  environmental stewardship. That is Washington overreach.

The United States has reduced emissions more than any other nation  since 2005, all while leading the world in energy production. We should  be building on that success, not undermining it with policies like this  outdated, overly  burdensome Biden regulation that stifle investment and progress.

North Dakota is proof that responsible energy production and  environmental stewardship go hand in hand. It is not one or the other.  Our State has never violated Federal air quality standards. I will say  that again. Our State has never violated Federal air quality standards,  while being one of the largest energy producers in the whole country.  This is a testament to the more than $2 billion our energy producers  have invested in emissions control technologies. They did that because  they took their responsibility seriously. They want to be good stewards  of our resources and of our air and water.

American businesses are dedicated to protecting the health, safety,  and vibrancy of their communities. What they need is regulatory  certainty, not a rule that locks them into compliance with outdated  standards even after they have done the right thing. This is about more  than just one burdensome regulation. It is about standing up for the  industries that power our economy and rejecting Washington's one-size- fits-all approach.

American energy solutions are climate solutions. American energy  producers are providing the solutions that are going to solve energy  needs and environmental needs for the world over. Let's encourage  investment in technology, not support regulations that make it  impossible to do business.

I am proud to lead this effort in the House, and I urge my colleagues  to support this resolution. Let's restore regulatory certainty, the  number one cry from the industry that I meet with. We need regulatory  certainty. Let's send a clear message that we stand with American  energy producers, farmers, manufacturers, and we stand with innovation.

Mr. Speaker, our Nation has been blessed abundantly with natural  resources. Misguided regulations and policies are strangling the very  people in our Nation who are building and producing everything that we  need. They are strangling the people who create jobs, who produce the  products, the food, who pay taxes, who employ people. People make our  communities strong. We need to stop doing that. We need to correct  course in our approach for government and regulations.

Our Republican House Conference, the President, and the Senate  Republicans are committed to doing this for America and to making our  Nation, our States, our energy producers, our farmers, our  manufacturers, and our communities great again.