Airmen Certificate Accessibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701231/airmen-certificate-accessibility-act


Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2247, the Airmen Certificate  Accessibility Act, as amended.

Current law requires airmen to carry physical versions of their pilot  license in case a representative of the FAA ever needs to verify the  airman's status. This is despite other important paper documents pilots  are required to carry, such as their flight bags or flight books, now  being allowed to be carried in a digitized form.

The option for airmen to now carry their certificate in a readily  accessible digital format is a priority for the aviation community. We  have heard them on this issue.

H.R. 2247, as amended, combines the necessary safeguards to provide  the option for a digital airmen certificate that is issued by the FAA  so long as that certificate can be authenticated and verified by an  inspector.

This digital certificate may be uploaded to a device on the airman's  person or, if in the presence of a stable internet connection, be  stored and accessed through the cloud.

This bill would direct the FAA into rulemaking to ensure these  digital certificates are just as secure as their physical originals and  establish guidelines for their authentication and verification. By  allowing airmen to use a digital certificate in this way, we will  continue our efforts to safely and securely modernize the FAA.

Madam Speaker, I support this legislation. I thank the gentleman from  Tennessee (Mr. Burchett) for his leadership here, and I urge my  colleagues to support this, as well.

Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I agree with my colleague from Tennessee. This should  not take an act of Congress to do, but nevertheless, we are here and we  have to do it.

I appreciate his work on this issue in making sure that we can  balance a long-asked-for convenience to our pilots with the necessary  safeguards. That is why I support H.R. 2247, as amended, and urge my  colleagues to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.