Airport Regulatory Relief Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701204/airport-regulatory-relief-act-of-2025


Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6427, the Airport Regulatory  Relief Act, as amended, introduced by my colleague from Alaska,  Representative Begich.

Current law provides small, general aviation nonprimary airports  flexibility in how they construct runways by granting them the choice  of using either Federal aviation paving standards or State highway  paving standards. These options come with stipulations that the runways  only service small planes, A, and, B, the DOT determines that it would  not decrease aviation safety.

Unfortunately, local and rural airports are having trouble with the  time it takes the DOT to make these determinations.

H.R. 6427 would allow small airports to be more agile in their  project planning by changing the requirement for States to formally  request permission from the Department of Transportation in order to  use State highway specifications.

By allowing States to simply notify the Department of Transportation  of their intention to use the State highway specifications rather than  formally request permission, critical airfield pavement construction  projects will no longer be subject to lengthy and bureaucratic delays.

For oversight, the bill maintains the requirement that the Department  of Transportation make a determination on whether the use of such State  highway standards would negatively affect aviation safety.

If more time is needed to conduct the safety review, the DOT may take  successive 6-month extensions, so long as the DOT also notifies the  airport and provides such airport with justification.

This deadline and extension process will help increase transparency  for airport applicants, who will now be more regularly updated, and  ensure accountability by requiring justification to come from the  Department of Transportation.

Madam Speaker, I support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues  to do the same.

Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, our local and rural airports are the backbone of  general aviation in the United States, and they need Congress' help to  remain cost competitive. This is a commonsense piece of legislation  that removes the Federal Government.

This is not a situation where the Federal Government knows what is  best. Many States have been doing this much longer than the Federal  Government.

My State of Alabama is not often thought of as one in the lens of  aviation history, but the Wright brothers, whom we have spoken about  today at length, were from Ohio and flew in North Carolina. When it  came time to open their first civilian flight school, a little-known  fact is that they opened it in Montgomery County, Alabama, which I now  have the privilege of representing.

They did that in 1910. The FAA wasn't founded until 1958, so the  State of Alabama has been dealing with how to land aircraft on small  airfields for nearly 50 years before the Federal Government was. They  know how to get the job done, and this bill allows them to do just  that.

Madam Speaker, that is why I support H.R. 6427, and I urge my  colleagues to do the same. I yield back the balance of my time.