American Water Stewardship Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701219/american-water-stewardship-act


Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6422, the American Water  Stewardship Act, as amended, a bipartisan bill that combines several  standalone bills that all have broad support.

I am proud to have sponsored the ESTUARIES Act, which reauthorizes  the National Estuary Program and is included in section 6 of this bill.  The National Estuary Program is an important resource supporting  locally led efforts to restore and protect the environmental health of  estuaries of national significance, one of which is in my district and  my hometown, the Mobile Bay National Estuary Program.

H.R. 6422, as amended, reauthorizes several other EPA programs that  have strong bipartisan support due to their proven success. The Great  Lakes Restoration Initiative covers a wide geographic area and works to  protect and restore the country's largest source of freshwater.

Other programs include the Columbia River Basin Restoration Program,  as well as the BEACH Act, which Representative Pallone has championed  for years.

I, again, recognize my Democratic committee colleagues,  Representatives McDonald Rivet, Scholten, Sykes, Gillen, Hoyle,  Brownley, Pappas, Huffman, Moulton, Pou, and Norton--there are a lot of  us--for their leadership on this comprehensive package, and my  Republican colleagues, as well.

Reauthorizing each of these EPA programs will allow them the Federal  support that they need to continue the comprehensive, complex work that  they do locally to restore and protect local aquatic ecosystems.

The health of our water resources supports the health of our  communities by providing flood protection, storing clean water, and  supporting our water-based economies.

Madam Speaker, I support the American Water Stewardship Act, as  amended, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

To date, the National Estuary Program covers 28 unique coastal  habitats nationwide, and with passage of this, it would add another  one. The Columbia River Basin is one of our largest watersheds. The  Great Lakes are the largest system of fresh surface water in the world.  The Long Island Sound provides benefits to millions of residents in New  York and Connecticut, and it is habitat to more than 1,200  invertebrates, 170 species of fish, and dozens of species of migratory  birds.

These water bodies are worth protecting, and there are major  economic, recreational, and human health benefits to restoring them  all.

Further, as the weather warms up, I know we are all looking forward  to visiting our favorite beaches and coastal areas, which means that we  need to know that our coastal waters are safe from contaminants. This  bill pulls together reauthorizations of five critical programs, all of  which are broadly supported by Members on both sides of the aisle.

The bill provides these programs with 5 additional years of flat  funding and also ensures the GAO evaluates the continued success of  each of EPA's geographic programs. The American Water Stewardship Act  is just that: thoughtful stewardship of our most critical water  resources.

Madam Speaker, I support this bill, as amended, and I urge my  colleagues to do the same. I yield back the balance of my time.