Aviation Supply Chain Safety and Security Digitization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701182/aviation-supply-chain-safety-and-security-digitization-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6267, the Aviation Supply  Chain Safety and Security Digitization Act, bipartisan legislation  introduced by my friends Representative Knott of North Carolina and  Representative Scholten of Michigan.

U.S. innovation, economic growth, and global leadership are  impossible without our Nation's aerospace industry. This is an industry  that is particularly relevant to me representing Mobile, my hometown,  where we are the proud home to an Airbus facility.

Unfortunately, the last few years have taught us, through a pandemic,  tariffs, and quality control issues, just how much supply chain  disruptions can spiral and compound. It is essential that Congress take  this lesson and pass legislation to reduce the risk of these  compounding disruptions from happening in the future.

H.R. 6267 directs the GAO to study the impediments to the use of  digital documentation and verification in the aviation supply chain to  aid in identifying falsified documentation and counterfeit parts.

As a major driver of the U.S. economy, we must ensure that aerospace  supply chains remain resilient. To achieve that, we must also remove  any unnecessary or antiquated barriers where we can.

This bill will help Congress find ways to expedite the aerospace  supply chains digital transition. I support this legislation and urge  my colleagues to do the same. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, we must learn from past lessons, as Representative Knott  just explained the incident that happened in 2023. We have the tools at  our disposal to be able to deal with this, to be able to better secure  our supply chain in the aerospace industry, and we have an obligation  to do so.

That is why I support H.R. 6267, and I urge my colleagues to do the  same.