Courthouse Affordability and Space Efficiency Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695379/courthouse-affordability-and-space-efficiency-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3426, the Courthouse Affordability and  Space Efficiency Act of 2025, or CASE Act.

I thank my colleague from, I almost want to say Louisiana because of  his familial ties to the naming of Shreveport, but my across-the-hall  neighbor in the Cannon Building, the gentleman from Indiana (Mr.  Shreve), I thank him for his leadership and support on this issue.

This bill develops space-sharing guidelines to prevent overbuilding  of new Federal courthouses. As a former Department of Justice staffer  and a former Federal law clerk myself, I have had the privilege to see  many beautiful courthouses and courtrooms across this country, and so I  have seen how empty and underutilized many of those spaces are.

By implementing these standards into the design guide for Federal  courthouses, the GSA will be able to reduce construction costs and  ensure that existing spaces in courthouse complexes are being fully  utilized.

Over the last 45 years, the GAO has compiled a large body of work on  Federal courthouse construction, much of it at the request of the House  Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.

GAO has found that the judiciary has requested and received  courthouses that are larger than the size authorized by Congress, more  expensive to build, and more expensive to operate than Congress was  aware of.

The judiciary has tried, however, to meet the concerns of Congress  over the last several years. Recently, the judicial conference revised  its courtroom allocation planning assumptions. New courtroom  construction projects are to be designed to facilitate courtroom  sharing for senior district judges, magistrate judges, and bankruptcy  judges.

There is still some cause for concern. This legislation, by  establishing sharing guidelines for active district court judges, will  certainly help.

I support this legislation because this is about making the American  taxpayer dollar go further and making more sensible investments. I urge  my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3426, the CASE Act, and I  urge my colleagues to do the same.

I yield back the balance of my time.