Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693778/digital-asset-market-clarity-act-of-2025


Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, I have listened to many of my colleagues'  views on the issues before us today. I respect them all, and I respect  their views. I don't disagree with many of the points that my  colleagues who are in opposition are making, especially as it relates  to executive conflict of interest concerns.

Here is what I know. I know that the United States is lagging behind  the rest of the world in regulating this industry. I know that the  regulations in the CLARITY Act are better than none at all in this  industry. I know that consumers will be better protected the day after  this goes into effect than they were the day before.

Now, is there more work to be done? Absolutely. We should do that. We  cannot allow subjective ideas of perfection to override what are  objectively steps in the right direction.

The CLARITY Act is one act that I support, and this is an important  first step. As we move forward, however, we must continue to make the  necessary investments so that everyone can participate. Those are  investments in technical training and education so that people have the  knowledge and  skills to actually understand and participate in a digital economy.

This is also a time to commit ourselves to ensuring that we do not  leave underserved and rural communities behind. I represent a district  that is geographically predominantly rural. We still struggle with  issues like not having access to the internet in many counties that I  represent.

You cannot participate in or leverage the benefits of a digital  economy if you can't get on the internet. That is a fact. We must stand  up for these communities and bring broadband and internet expansion  resources to every community that we possibly can.

Let's keep moving forward. Let's keep making sure that we are  bringing everyone along with us.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.