Facility for Runway Operations and Safe Transportation Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support, also, of H.R. 3423, the Facility for  Runway Operations and Safe Transportation Act, the FROST Act, a bill  that would make it easier for U.S. airports to store certain critical  safety equipment.

I thank Representative Wied for introducing this bipartisan bill as  well as his Democratic cosponsors, Representatives Scholten and  Representative Gillen.

Deicing an aircraft is a vital part to maintaining safe flight  operations, particularly during takeoff. As ice and snow accumulate on  an aircraft's surface, particularly its wings, it can make the aircraft  much harder to control and fly. That is why operators are federally  mandated to use deicing equipment when ice and snow accumulate to  ensure that the plane can be operated safely.

This equipment is so important that improper use has been cited by  the National Transportation Safety Board, or failure to have it at all,  as a cause of multiple aviation accidents, including a very famous one  right here on the Potomac River, a flight that took off in 1982 from  Ronald Reagan Airport.

Moreover, with climate change contributing to more extreme weather  across the country, deicing fluids and equipment have become even more  of a necessity.

The ability for airports to store this equipment on property is  essential to safe and efficient flight operations. Unfortunately, as my  colleague has mentioned, current law only allows airports to use their  AIP funding, the Airport Improvement Program funding, toward aircraft  deicing equipment and structures but not the storage facilities that  house that equipment. It is almost comical, but this is a serious issue  and something that we have to resolve.

This is a commonsense piece of legislation that we have gotten  together in a bipartisan way here to address.

H.R. 3423 would address this oversight by clarifying that airports  can use AIP funds on storage facilities for aircraft deicing equipment  and fluids.

Bolstering airports' ability to enhance aviation safety is a  commonsense solution that we should all support.

I thank Representative Wied, Representative Scholten, and  Representative Gillen for sponsoring this important bipartisan bill,  and I urge my colleagues to support it.

Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3423, the FROST Act, and I  urge my colleagues to do the same with this commonsense piece of  legislation.