Federal Maritime Commission Reauthorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698123/federal-maritime-commission-reauthorization-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise in support of H.R. 4183, the Federal  Maritime Commission Reauthorization Act of 2025, as amended. This bill  updates and strengthens the authorities of the Federal Maritime  Commission, or FMC, an agency that plays a critical role in ensuring an  efficient, competitive, and economical maritime shipping system. As my  colleague from South Dakota indicated, it ensures that we have the  resources necessary to level the playing field.

The past several years have shown how essential it is to safeguard  our shipping. Disruptions in global shipping, port congestion, and  fluctuating freight rates have created serious challenges for American  businesses and consumers alike.

This legislation authorizes funding for the Federal Maritime  Commission for fiscal years 2026 and 2027, ensuring that the agency has  the consistent resources it needs over the next several years to  continue its core oversight and enforcement work.

The bill strengthens the FMC's ability to address anticompetitive  behavior, which is vitally necessary throughout the shipping industry.  It will also authorize the FMC to investigate complaints against  shipping exchanges concerning market manipulation and other  anticompetitive practices.

The bill creates a National Port Advisory Committee and a National  Ocean Carrier Advisory Committee which will provide critical informed  insight to ensure a more fair and efficient international ocean freight  system.

I support this legislation, and I thank my colleague from South  Dakota, Congressman Johnson, as well as the Democratic cosponsors of  this bill.

Mr. Speaker, this is an important piece of legislation that will  strengthen our Federal Maritime Commission and ensure that we have a  competitive, effective, and efficient maritime transportation system.

I support H.R. 4183, as introduced by my colleague from South Dakota,  as amended, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr. Speaker, whether they realize it or  not, every single American benefits from having a competitive maritime  marketplace. For that to be the case, you have to have a cop on the  beat that understands the job, is focused on anticompetitive behavior,  and is driven to make sure that the free market works in the maritime  space.

Mr. Speaker, this bill pushes forward all of those goals. I urge  support of this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.