Health Disparities in Minority Communities


Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on an urgent issue  that affects the health, well-being, and prosperity of Black families,  not just across the State of Alabama that I call home, but across this  country, the staggering healthcare disparities that persist across this  country and across too many counties in districts like mine, the Second  Congressional District of Alabama.

Let me be clear at the outset: I do not subscribe to the notion that  healthcare is a luxury, that healthcare should be available to those  who can afford it, that healthcare should be dependent on where you  come from, where you were born, the ZIP Code that you reside in. I  believe that healthcare is a basic human right. We know Jesus gave it  for free.

I subscribe to the notion that no one should be left without access  to a doctor, a hospital, or an ambulance simply because of where they  are from. The disparities should not be as drastic as they are for  people of color. Yet, in places like Barbour County and Washington  County and Conecuh County across my district, the data tells the  devastating story about who has access to care and who has historically  been left behind.

I know this is not just unique to Alabama. We see it in South  Carolina. We see it in Massachusetts, as my colleague just spoke about.  We see it in Mississippi, Georgia, and other places as well, where  Black residents face higher rates of those chronic, preventable  diseases and illnesses such as hypertension and diabetes. They suffer  disproportionately from things like stroke and heart attack.

Too often, they live miles from the nearest hospital or clinic,  particularly in these rural areas, these rural parts of America, where  we are seeing hospitals closed. We are seeing them shut down. We are  seeing it more difficult for them to even access basic care.

We see in places across Alabama where maternal mortality rates for  Black women are more than double that of White women. I am proud to be  from the State of Alabama, but I am not proud of all of its health  statistics. In fact, I am not proud of most of them.

Alabama is America's worst State for maternal mortality. More women  die after childbirth in the State of Alabama than anywhere else in  America, period. That is not just Black women, that is women in  general. The disparity for Black women is alarming, more alarming in  that context. It is just unacceptable.

We are seeing across the State of Alabama, particularly in our rural  counties, which if you know anything about the South, those rural  counties in the South typically have higher Black populations, going  back to the historical role and the historical place that they were for  slavery, and the descendants stayed there. We are seeing hospitals in  these rural communities shut down.

This leads to cuts in just general healthcare services, and they  create healthcare deserts, forcing folks to drive in some cases,  literally, hours for basic care, in some cases well over an hour to be  able to get to a hospital.

Just in my home State alone, in this district that I ran in, we saw  several hospitals close just across the 13 counties that compose my  district, just while I was running for office. Just while I was running  for office, we saw at least four shutter.

We are on pace in my district alone to see every single hospital  close within the next several years that are not located pretty much in  just Mobile or Montgomery. That is unacceptable because it creates  conditions that make it tougher for Black people to be able to receive  care, for all people to be able to receive care.

The disparities in access we know are well documented, so we know  that that burden will disproportionately hit the African-American  community. This is places that have contributed so much to this Nation,  places like Tuskegee, Alabama, that gave us so much, places like Troy,  Alabama, that gave us John Lewis, places like Montgomery, Alabama,  where their largest hospital is in bankruptcy right now.

We have to be cognizant of the impact that this is going to continue  to have on the African-American community, and we have to be focused on  solutions, but we also have to understand  how we got here. This is not just something that we stumbled upon. It  is not that the data didn't show us that this was coming. This is the  result of historic underinvestment and the direct result of policy  choices historically and policy decisions that we continue to make to  this day.

I am in Alabama. We are one of just 10 States that has not acted on  the common wisdom of expanding Medicaid, and that is exacerbating the  issues that we have from a healthcare standpoint. We haven't expanded  Medicaid. This is in a State that for all intents and purposes has  pretty much the lowest life expectancy in America. I think we are  technically third by some decimal points, so congratulations, we live a  few weeks longer in the State of Alabama than, say, West Virginia and  Mississippi.

It is nothing to really be proud of. We are at the bottom of the  barrel. Yet, we haven't expanded Medicaid, which is one of the reasons  that the first piece of legislation that I joined when I was fortunate  enough to be sworn into this body was the COVER Now Act, which would  allow counties and cities to be able to get Medicaid expansion funding  directly and get through the resistance that the State has put up now  for well over a decade.

We have got to do better than that. We can continue to ring the  alarm, but we have to do better. We have to. We have to address the  underlying causes and the underlying issues here. We have to understand  that these counties where these hospitals have been closing that  insurance remains out of reach because the jobs aren't there. We have  to understand that preventative care in many of these places is also  just a dream because the condition of the communities don't warrant  healthcare practitioners setting up shop there or staying there.

I don't care who you are. I come from Alabama, we treat Nick Sabin,  and rightfully so, as the greatest college football coach of all time,  but I can tell you one thing about this: Nick Sabin could not close a  recruiting pitch to a business to come relocate in a county that does  not have a hospital. I don't care who you are. Businesses don't want to  relocate there. Hell, businesses don't even want to remain there.

How do you get retirees to want to come back home where they grew up  and set up shop, and you tell them, we don't have a hospital, we don't  have a geriatrician? Seven of the thirteen counties in my district  don't even have a pediatrician. We have to get serious about addressing  this issue in the community. It is an existential threat, it truly is.

We know the other statistics: Black Alabamians are more likely to  suffer from diabetes and amputations that result from them or to die  from untreated cancers or undiagnosed cancers or late-diagnosed cancers  and experience preventable complications from just general chronic  illnesses.

When it comes to kidney disease and dialysis access, the results are  alarming. People in the State of Alabama have been trying to get me to  come visit as many healthcare facilities as possible to shed light and  to give more context behind what's really happening in the healthcare  system in the State of Alabama. The dialysis community brought me in  for a tour last week in Montgomery, Alabama, at the DaVita Center.

You see these nurses and technicians that are doing God's work in  keeping people alive, but one thing jumps out at you. You can't help  but see that every patient in there looks like me. Every kidney  dialysis patient looks like me, and so I asked: Is this just a certain  day or is this how it goes? They had representatives from five or six  facilities there, and all of them said the same thing: No, our patient  rolls are about 90 percent Black. That is because this is impacting  people of African-American descent and Black people in this country in  the way it is not impacting other races.

We have an obligation, a moral duty as a nation to figure out why.  That is why cuts to things like NIH aren't productive. It is not  helpful. It is harmful. If you ever want your conscience to be shocked,  walk into a dialysis treatment facility in probably any community in  this country, then do the statistics yourself. Ask yourself why that is  and why can't we figure that out. Why are we not investing more  resources, more time, and more attention and focus on trying to improve  healthcare outcomes for Black people in this country? We have to. We  must.

We must start this process by expanding Medicaid in States like mine,  the State of Alabama. We must do that. Nobody should have to choose  between getting treatment and putting food on the table. There are too  many people who should be able to go see a doctor who are not because  they refuse to expand Medicaid.

We also have to invest in our healthcare infrastructure, particularly  in our rural healthcare infrastructure, bringing back those hospitals  and clinics and bringing in telehealth hubs, leveraging every resource  we have to improve healthcare outcomes. We have to increase funding for  Black maternal health initiatives because these are problems we should  not be having in 2025.

In 2025, we should not be having nearly as many women die from  childbirth complications and pregnancy-related causes as we do. When  you look at the disparities racially, it is stark. It is shocking. We  have to get to the bottom of why that is.

We have to continue to address those environmental health threats in  places like Alabama and across the country, where you see  disproportionately higher rates of cancer in certain communities  because they are located in certain places. We have to be serious about  this.

It is a privilege to be able to speak on the importance of this  issue, especially under the leadership of Representative Clyburn.