Made in America Jobs Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701166/made-in-america-jobs-act-of-2026


Mr. Speaker, I too rise in support of H.R. 7342, the Made in America  Jobs Act, as amended, legislation introduced by myself and my friend  from Colorado Representative Jeff Hurd.

In 2024, Congress reauthorized the U.S. Economic Development  Administration for the first time in over 20 years. This  reauthorization made significant revisions to EDA, providing the agency  with the tools and resources it needs to support local economic growth  and success in the worldwide economy.

One change this legislation made was to allow EDA to consider new  criteria when awarding grants that promote long-term investment and  growth. The Made in America Jobs Act builds on this progress by further  expanding grant eligibility to projects that facilitate the relocation  of employment sources from outside the country to inside the United  States and the growth of the domestic manufacturing and customer  service sectors.

By directing EDA to consider projects that aid these efforts when  awarding grants for public works, planning, training, and other  activities, Congress can continue to support established and emerging  industries while creating new economic opportunities for both rural and  urban communities alike.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill as amended and urge my colleagues to  do the same.

Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, this is a commonsense piece of legislation  that incentivizes companies and corporations to bring jobs back to  America. We have seen over the better part of the last century the  outsourcing of American jobs to offshore.

This gives us an opportunity to make real, tangible improvements in  terms of those efforts to recruit those companies back here to the  United States and not just to the big cities in the United States. This  is an effort that will allow us to be able to put in place the  resources and the incentives to bring those jobs to places like Macon  County, Pike County, Monroe County, and Bullitt County, places that  most of America has never heard of and places that most of America has  very similar communities in their backyards.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 7342, the Made in America Jobs Act, as  amended, and urge my colleagues to do the same. I yield back the  balance of my time.