Mental Health in Aviation Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2591, the Mental Health in  Aviation Act of 2025, a bill that would modernize the Federal Aviation  Administration's outdated policies and remove barriers to lifesaving  mental health care for the aviation workforce.

As we continue to navigate the aftermath of traffic aviation  accidents and harrowing near misses across this country, we must  support the mental health of the dedicated women and men on the front  lines of ensuring the traveling public reaches their final destination  safely every day.

For far too long, many aviation professionals suffer in silence. That  silence is because of the fear that disclosing a mental health  diagnosis or treatment could derail their careers, possibly ending it.

Many of us in Congress have heard from our constituents about the  FAA's difficult aeromedical process. We have spoken to overworked air  traffic controllers about the consequence of mounting job pressures. We  have seen qualified airline pilots grounded for months, in some cases  even years, due to delays with FAA medical clearance reviews.

With the 2024 FAA reauthorization as a blueprint, the Mental Health  in Aviation Act will do several things.

It will direct the FAA to annually review and update its mental  health-related policies for pilots and air traffic controllers, in  consultation with key stakeholders.

It requires the agency to implement recommendations from the aviation  workforce mental health task group established under the 2024 FAA  reauthorization law.

It will make significant, robust investments in the FAA's recruitment  and training of aviation medical examiners, particularly those with  mental health expertise.

Finally, this legislation will establish a public information  campaign to help destigmatize mental health in U.S. aviation, among  other key reforms.

The FAA's mental health protocols must evolve to foster an  environment where the aviation workforce feels supported to seek the  resources and care that they need, and the Mental Health in Aviation  Act will do just that.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Casten, Stauber, and Mann for  their leadership on this, as well as their staff for their hard work on  this important issue.

H.R. 2591 was unanimously approved in the T&I Committee in June, and  it is endorsed by several key stakeholders, including U.S. airlines,  air traffic controllers and pilot unions, the general aviation and  business aviation industries, first responders, and many others.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join us to support H.R.  2591, and I urge the Senate to quickly take up this bill to help  provide the resources our aviation workforce desperately needs and  deserves.

Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, I support the Mental Health in Aviation  Act, and I recommend my colleagues do the same. It is an important  piece of legislation that will work to better the lives and better the  safety of our aerospace professionals.