People, Not Statistics


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688514/people-not-statistics


Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, I had the privilege last night of sitting  in this Chamber yet again, and I witnessed a lot of my colleagues  cheering as the President rattled off the numbers, the statistics, and  the data of how many people he has terminated and has laid off or  fired. Whatever my colleagues want to call it, people are out of a job.

As I sat here, I sat in a little bit of amazement because these  aren't just statistics that we are talking about. These are people.  These are real people. These are real lives. These are not just data  points in a spreadsheet.

These are real families that we are talking about. These aren't just  numbers in some speech or in some press  release that my colleagues put out expressing joy over the misfortune  of hundreds of thousands of people. These are real people, some of whom  I know, some of whom I have met, and some of whom my colleagues know.  These are people.

These are people, yet last night, many people in here cheered as the  President took pride in announcing his terminations of them.

The Bible says: ``Do not gloat over your brother's day, the day of  his misfortune.'' Gloating is what we saw. Gloating is what we have  seen. Gloating is what we continue to see. Cheering is what we continue  to see.

We have seen hand clapping and high fives over people losing their  jobs, people losing their livelihoods.

We have seen cheering at the downfall of people, cheering as if these  people are somehow just invisible numbers and invisible things,  cheering as if these are not people who are paying mortgages, cheering  as if these are not people who are paying student loans, and cheering  as if these are people who are not paying car notes or putting their  kids through school or taking care of their elderly parents or paying  for a wedding or are new parents. These are people.

These are people. These are real people. These are real lives that we  are impacting, and yet we sit in here and we cheer. We cheer the  downfall.

The sad part about it is that regardless of how you feel about the  Federal Government, regardless if you feel that these jobs were  unnecessary or unneeded, even if you feel that way, I think we can all  agree that there is a better way to treat somebody than sending a 20- year worker, a 15-year worker, a 10-year worker an email on a Saturday  night saying you are out of a job on Monday morning.

There are better ways to run a country. There are better ways to run  a business. It is not necessary to mistreat people that way. You can  incentivize people who are close to retirement to retire early. You can  freeze hiring. You can give people a 6-month, a 9-month, a 12-month  heads-up that we are phasing out your job, but to get rid of people in  the manner in which this administration has done it is simply indecent.

It is, as my 5-year-old son would say, just not nice. It is not how  you treat people. It is not how we should be treating people in  America. We should not be cheering and gloating over the downfall of  people who did nothing wrong but show up to work. It is not right.

Meanwhile, all of this is done allegedly to save money. Yet, if we  were serious about saving money, the President would lead by example  and not by exception. We know that practically every other weekend the  President is traveling down to Mar-a-Lago on trips that cost the  American taxpayer, on average, about $3.5 million per trip. That is not  even including the money that Members of this body spend in going to  join him down there for meetings that they could have here in  Washington, D.C., for free, but we are allegedly saving money.

That is the goal. We are not achieving it because my colleagues are  pushing a budget that is going to add trillions of dollars to the  national deficit while firing hardworking men and women while we  continue to spend $3.5 million per trip for the President to go  gallivanting to Mar-a-Lago. That is something that DOGE should look  into.

Mr. Speaker, if we are serious about saving money, they should look  into that. That is something that they should seriously look at. We  spend $3.5 million per trip. Tell Mr. Musk to go and ``DOGE'' that  because that is something that is real. That is something that is  within the President's power to be able to stop. Yet, we come in this  Chamber and take pride in firing and announcing the terminations of  hardworking men and women.