Recreational Drone Empowerment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701179/recreational-drone-empowerment-act


Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6460, bipartisan legislation  introduced by the gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Mann) and the gentlewoman  from Kansas (Ms. Davids).

The FAA reports there are more than 370,000 registered recreational  drones in  the U.S. However, the FAA's new interpretation of language in the FAA  Reauthorization Act of 2018 and 2024 has now restricted these  authorized recreational drone users to only class E2 airspace, airspace  designated for airports.

This restriction was not the intent of Congress and leaves many  lawful drone users unable to frequent the spaces that they are used to  flying in and doing so safely.

Without change, there will likely be significant confusion amongst  recreational hobbyists who are simply trying to do what they have  always been allowed to do.

The bipartisan H.R. 6460 makes a technical correction to the current  statute, authorizing the FAA, through its existing approval process, to  permit eligible recreational drone flights in certain class E  controlled airspace.

To clarify, this bill would not automatically allow for recreational  drone flights near airports or higher altitude operations in  uncontrolled airspace. Recreational drone operators would still be  required to comply with the FAA's safety requirements and to go through  the agency's approval process.

This bill will help reduce some confusion for recreational drone  operators to ensure safety and clarifies the FAA's authorization  process for these drone flights. I support this legislation and urge my  colleagues to do the same.

Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, recreational drone use is a rapidly  growing pastime here in America, and we must put in place sufficient  guardrails for safety. That is why I support H.R. 6460 and urge my  colleagues to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.