Save Our Seas Amendments Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698191/save-our-seas-amendments-act


Mr. Speaker, I too rise in support of S. 216, the Save Our Seas 2.0  Amendments Act.

Mr. Speaker, before I express support for that, I will associate  myself with the comments of my colleagues for the previous resolution,  condemning the violence against members of the National Guard from West  Virginia and condemning that horrific act that took the life of Army  Specialist Sarah Beckstrom and has left Air Force Staff Sergeant Andrew  Wolfe gravely injured.

Mr. Speaker, as it relates to the Save Our Seas 2.0 Amendments Act,  this bill will improve the administration of the National Oceanic and  Atmospheric Administration's Marine Debris Program and the Marine  Debris Foundation so that it can respond more effectively to the  growing threats facing our coastal regions, of which I represent one in  Mobile, Alabama.

Each year, more than 11 million tons of plastic debris enters the  oceans, endangering the livelihood of communities, small businesses,  fishermen, and our food chain that rely on healthy waterways. Along  Alabama's coastal communities, we understand how critically important  reliable waterways are.

This legislation takes practical steps to support the Federal  programs responsible for removing debris and protecting the safety and  resilience of our coastal communities.

The bill improves NOAA's Marine Debris Program by giving the agency  clear authority to use new and existing tools to address pollution more  effectively and allowing NOAA to work faster and in closer partnership  with State and local governments, as well as Tribal nations,  nonprofits, and regional organizations.

The bill requires the Marine Debris Foundation to develop and  implement best practices for engaging with Tribal Governments to ensure  that they are included in the programs and funding designed to protect  the water resources.

Finally, this legislation extends vital funding for marine debris  removal efforts through 2029. It keeps programs running, supports long- term planning, and gives communities confidence that Federal partners  are committed to protecting our waters and natural resources.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support my colleagues who have worked on  this important bipartisan legislation both here in the House, as well  as the Senate. I look forward to seeing it passed into law, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers.

Mr. FIGURES.  Bonamici).

Mr. Speaker, in closing, passing this bill is an important step that  we can take right now to help address the health and resilience of  coastal communities like those that I represent. I support S. 216, the  Save Our Seas 2.0 Amendments Act, and I urge my colleagues to do the  same.

Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.

Mr. Speaker, Ms. Bonamici said it right. This legislation will enable  NOAA to continue addressing the adverse impacts of marine debris on our  country's maritime economy and will ensure safe navigation on America's  waterways. Importantly, this legislation will promote clean water and  the protection of our natural resources without imposing new mandates  on industry or local governments.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of the bill, and I yield back the balance  of my time.