Supersonic Aviation Modernization Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701199/supersonic-aviation-modernization-act


Mr. FIGURES. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3410, the Supersonic  Aviation Modernization Act, as amended, bipartisan legislation  introduced by Representative Nehls and Representative Davids.

One of the priorities of the Transportation and Infrastructure  Committee, which I have the privilege of sitting on with my colleague  from Ohio, Representative Taylor, is to look for new ways to help our  constituents have a better flying experience.

Supersonic flight is poised to be another paradigm shift in the  aviation industry, especially if it can be done in ways that maintain  safety and limit noise and sonic booms.

However, currently supersonic aircraft are prohibited from operating  in the U.S. without a special authorization from the FAA.

H.R. 3410, as amended, is the first step to eventually allowing  Americans to safely travel across the country at almost half the time  it takes now, providing more time for being productive or spending the  time with family and not on a plane.

The bill would require the FAA to revise current regulations to  ensure supersonic aircraft could fly in the U.S. as long as these  operations do not create a supersonic boom that reaches the ground.

It would also help ensure these aircraft would not create noise  levels any higher than traditional aircraft that are currently in  operation.

This bipartisan bill also calls for future updates to the standard by  the FAA to ensure supersonic aircraft become even quieter in the  future.

Furthermore, the bill ensures that these noise standards are  periodically reviewed and further updated to reflect the latest  advances in aircraft technology.

While Congress and the FAA should continue working to make supersonic  flight more sustainable, I am greatly encouraged that the industry  stakeholders are designing their supersonic aircraft to fly completely  on sustainable aviation fuel.

The potential benefits to consumers are promising: less time on the  aircraft and more time building that new business or spending time with  friends and family.

Madam Speaker, I thank the Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Nehls and  Representative Davids from Kansas for their leadership on this  legislation. I support this legislation and urge my colleagues to do  the same.

Madam Speaker, in closing we should have been here a long time ago in  terms of being able to build on the supersonic technology that has been  out for years. It has been over two decades now since a supersonic  aircraft has been used in a commercial context, and we have the  technological advances to be able to do so and do so safely and  efficiently.

This legislation is common sense. It pushes back or guards against  the things that had the most worries in previous iterations of this  type of technology, particularly sonic booms reaching the ground and  noise levels.

The flying public deserves a better flying experience, and this bill  is a step in the right direction of being able to provide that. That is  why I support it, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.