Water Resources Technical Assistance Review Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695403/water-resources-technical-assistance-review-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3427, as amended, a bill  which I am co-leading with my colleague from Ohio (Mr. Taylor). I thank  Congressman Taylor for his leadership on this issue and for recognizing  the importance of this issue.

This bill directs the Government Accountability Office to review the  technical assistance programs created to help underserved, rural, and  Tribal communities obtain critical investment for their water  infrastructure needs.

In March, the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment heard  testimony from witnesses across the country on how these programs are  critical to economically disadvantaged communities and rural  communities.

Without the seed money and discretion provided by EPA, many  underserved, rural, and Tribal communities simply do not have the  staff, the resources, or the capacity to even apply for Federal  assistance when it is available.

Unfortunately, in its fiscal year '26 budget request, the  administration proposed to virtually eliminate funding for clean water- related infrastructure projects, but it also proposes to cut the  Technical Assistance for Treatment Works Grant Program by over 60  percent.

These cuts ignore the water infrastructure needs of our most  vulnerable communities, which includes a large part of the communities  that I have the privilege of serving in Alabama. Rural communities,  Tribal, and economically distressed communities in every State need  this sort of assistance.

The message from the administration to these communities is: We will  no longer help you meet your critical infrastructure needs. You are on  your own.

I don't think that should be the case. Mr. Speaker, many of the  communities that I have the privilege to represent historically have  been passed over for critical infrastructure investments, and they need  these investments, communities like Prichard, Alabama, and Greenville,  Alabama, who are struggling with clean water issues and infrastructure  issues as we sit here today.

The technical assistance provided by the EPA to be able to affordably  meet their basic clean water and drinking water needs is something that  they must have.

This GAO study will help identify how EPA implements the technical  assistance programs established in the Clean Water Act, as well as any  essential services for economically distressed, rural, and Tribal  communities that continue to go unmet through these programs.

My hope is that these findings will, again, demonstrate how critical  clean water infrastructure and technical assistance investments are to  struggling American communities, especially to our rural communities.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3427, as amended. I urge my colleagues to  do the same, and I yield back the balance of my time.