Wildfire Aerial Response Safety Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701176/wildfire-aerial-response-safety-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6618, the Wildfire Aerial  Response Safety Act, as amended, bipartisan legislation introduced by  my good friend from Oregon and fellow freshman, Representative Bynum,  Representative Neguse from Colorado, and Representatives Crane and  Ciscomani from Arizona.

The devastating impacts of wildfires are seen far too often across  this country, destroying local communities and the livelihoods of many  of our constituents. According to the National Interagency Fire Center,  there were at least 34 drone incursions into active wildfire  suppression areas last year. Of those 34, 29 incursions forced aerial  firefighting efforts to be grounded and significantly delayed critical  response efforts.

Most notably, as my colleague Representative Taylor just mentioned, a  drone actually struck a Canadian Super Scooper plane during last year's  catastrophic wildfires in southern California.

Whether these drone disruptions are intentionally malicious or the  result of uninformed operators, they are a costly nuisance to Federal  wildfire suppression efforts and needlessly risk the lives of first  responders and law enforcement, both those in the air and those on the  ground. These brave women and men put their lives on the line to fight  dangerous fires and should not have to deal with drone incursions while  doing their jobs.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 6618 requires the FAA to evaluate the number and  impact of drone incursions over the previous 5 years, including any  cost to the Federal Government, the effectiveness of educational public  outreach, and deploying approved counter-UAS systems to detect and  mitigate against drone interference.

This study and the recommendations will be key in establishing  necessary safeguards against drone incursions during wildfire  suppression activities. With the growing number and severity of  wildfires across the country, we cannot afford to let these dangerous  drone incursions go unabated, lest we run the risk of distracting or  endangering our firefighters and first responders.

These brave individuals put their lives on the line for us, and  today, they need our assistance. This is the first step to delivering  it.

Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation.

Mr. FIGURES.  Bynum).

Mr. Speaker, we must do everything that we can to help our  firefighters and first responders battling wildfires. We know drone use  is becoming more prolific. With that, we are seeing increased risks to  the efforts to battle these fires. Sometimes it is out of curiosity.  Sometimes it is out of carelessness or recklessness. Sometimes it is  just pure stupidity.

At the end of the day, we have an obligation in this House to do  everything that we can to protect our firefighters and make sure that  they are equipped with the resources and the laws that they need to be  able to do their jobs effectively.

That is why I support H.R. 6618, and I urge my colleagues to do the  same.