Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, as ranking member of the Agriculture, Rural  Development, and Food and Drug Administration Subcommittee, I rise to  oppose this bill. Though it does represent, for the most part, solid  bipartisan work to provide investments in agriculture and rural  America, I am disappointed that the rest of it falls far short of the  needs of most Americans.

Healthcare providers and patients are frustrated and frightened by  the imminent skyrocketing of healthcare costs caused by the loss of the  ACA tax credits and cuts to Medicaid, Medicare, and lifesaving  biomedical research.

My constituent, Ms. Angela Hoomes, is unable to walk without  debilitating pain. She is worried that, without the tax credits, she  won't be able to afford health insurance to complete the multiple back  surgeries she needs.

For many Georgians, healthcare is a matter of life and death. Our  Republican colleagues could have corrected this in the Rules Committee,  but they rejected an amendment last night that would have lowered  healthcare premium costs. To me, that is unconscionable. So are the  administration's actions during the shutdown.

As a Christian, I am outraged that USDA used the shutdown to  illegally withhold SNAP from 42 million Americans. USDA had the chance  to do the right thing and use designated contingency funds but rejected  it. When ordered to do so by the courts, they fought it all the way to  the Supreme Court to keep hungry families from receiving food.

America produces the highest quality, safest, most affordable, and  most abundant food, fiber, and medicine anywhere in the world. To that  end, this bill provides many welcome investments.

It fully funds SNAP and WIC, replenishes the SNAP and WIC contingency  funds, and fully funds cash value vouchers for fruits and vegetables  for women and children.

It also helps rural America by providing $1 billion in single family  direct home loans, $120 million over the House level, and funding water  and wastewater programs at $446 million, both issues that Democrats  tried to address in full committee.

The bill provides $1.85 billion for the Agricultural Research Service  and $1.67 billion for NIFA, protecting farmers, small businesses, and  families against President Trump's budget request to eliminate land  grant university research and extension activities across the country.

I am also pleased to see that the bill language requires the USDA to  notify Congress before canceling grants over $1 million.

The agriculture portion of this bill does make positive steps in the  right direction. The bill discards many of the harmful policy riders in  the House bill, yet it does not go far enough to negate House language  falsely questioning the safety of Mifepristone and encouraging the FDA  to explore liability protections for certain infant formula  manufacturers, over which the agency has absolutely no jurisdiction  whatsoever.

While the overall funding package may reopen the government for 1  month or 2, this bill does not address the breach of trust that this  administration has demonstrated since January.

They have failed to follow the law, and we cannot trust that they  will even execute this bill if we vote on it today.

Mr. BISHOP. They cut SNAP by 20 percent in the big, ugly bill this  summer, dismantled and defunded Federal programs, fired Federal  workers, and illegally ignored court orders.

This bill fails to address the healthcare crisis, and bipartisan  outrage has erupted over language in this bill to pay millions of  taxpayer dollars to a handful of Senators whose phone records were  subpoenaed in relation to the January 6 investigation.

It is a bad bill, and I oppose it.