In Memory of the Honorable Curtis Parham ``cp'' Redding, Sr.


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691304/in-memory-of-the-honorable-curtis-parham-cp-redding-sr


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of  a loving husband, dedicated grandfather, doting grandfather, astute  entrepreneur, committed public servant and dear friend of longstanding,  the Honorable Curtis Parham ``CP'' Redding. Sadly, ``CP'' passed away  on May 9, 2025. A service to commemorate his remarkable life was held  on May 15, 2025, in Eufaula, Alabama.

Born on September 8, 1932, in Hatcher Station, Quitman County,  Georgia, ``CP'' was the son of Curtis Lowe Redding and Ora Inez (Green)  Redding. He was a man of unwavering character, known for his commanding  presence, generous spirit, and fierce devotion to his family and  friends. His kindness, strength, and integrity inspired everyone who  had the privilege of knowing him.

A passionate outdoorsman, ``CP'' enjoyed hunting, traveling cross- country with his beloved wife Annie Ruth, and creating lasting memories  through his woodworking. He was a true entrepreneur, operating a  successful logging company for over 25 years while also owning and  managing a country store, bait shop, grocery store, and restaurant. His  diverse ventures showcased his dedication to serving the community.

It has been said that ``Service is the rent that we pay for the space  that we occupy here on this earth.'' ``CP'' paid his rent and he paid  it well. His commitment to improving lives in the Chattahoochee Valley/ Quitman County was evident through his service on more than 13 boards  and commissions, often as Chairman. He tirelessly advocated for better  education, healthcare, and public services, leaving a lasting impact on  countless lives.

On a personal note, ``CP'' was my friend and supporter for many  years. He always advocated for all things Quitman County. He never told  me what I wanted to hear, he always told me what he felt I needed to  hear. I will be forever grateful for the timbre of his character and  the fidelity of his friendship.

``CP'' accomplished much in life but none of it would have been  possible without the love and support of his beloved wife of nearly 74  years, Annie Ruth Redding; his children, Vickie Turner (David Gatch) of  Prattville, Alabama, Curtis Parham ``Bubba'' Redding (Dawn) of  Cuthbert, Georgia, and John Melton Redding (Amanda) of Baton Rouge,  Louisiana; and his sister, Gail Redding Corlee (Leonard) of Georgetown,  Georgia. ``CP'' also leaves behind seven grandchildren, nine great- grandchildren, two great-great-grandchildren, and numerous nieces,  nephews, and cousins.

Mr. Speaker, my wife Vivian and I, along with the more than 765,00  people of Georgia's Second Congressional District, salute and honor  life of Honorable Curtis Parham ``CP'' Redding, Sr., a man of purpose  and heart, whose enduring love for his family and community will never  be forgotten. I ask my colleagues in the House of Representatives to  join us in extending our deepest condolences to his family and all  those who mourn his loss during this difficult time of bereavement. I  pray that they will be consoled and comforted by an abiding faith and  the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks, and months ahead.