In Memory of Congressman David Scott of Georgia


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702149/in-memory-of-congressman-david-scott-of-georgia


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, today, our country lost a dedicated public  servant, as well as our State and the people of the 13th District of  Georgia. We lost our friend and colleague, Congressman   David Scott of  Georgia.

David and I served side by side for decades, first in the Georgia  General Assembly, later the House of Representatives here. We shared a  friendship that was rooted in faith, family, and a deep commitment to  the people we represent.

I have known David and his family for many years. My wife, Vivian,  and I join countless Georgians in mourning his loss and in holding his  loved ones close.

As leader of the House Committee on Agriculture, David's voice was  steady and compassionate. It was particularly poignant when in 2020,  David became the first African-American chair of the House Committee on  Agriculture, a historic moment that reflected his years of principled  leadership. He used that platform to fight for 1890 land-grant  institutions and disadvantaged farmers who too often have been left  behind, working tirelessly to secure resources for the agricultural  producers, rural communities, and nutrition programs that sustain our  State and our Nation.

David's devotion to the larger agricultural community, from small  family farms across Georgia to cooperative extensions and HBCU  researchers, was personal and persistent. He understood that the health  of our farms, the dignity of our workers, and the nourishment of our  people are bound together. He labored each day to translate that  understanding into results.

To Alfredia, his children, grandchildren, and all who loved him,  words cannot fully express our sorrow. We will honor  David's memory by  continuing the work that he loved--by standing with our farmers,  defending nutrition programs, and fighting for opportunity for all.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, first I thank my friend and  colleague, Congressman Sanford Bishop.

I knew David over the course of three decades in the State  legislature. We worked together on a lot of things, and he was just a  good man. He will be missed.

I know we talked about his devotion to agriculture, and we talked  about his devotion to Georgia. I also want you to know he was devoted  to Jesus Christ. Many times, we parked in the same area, and we would  walk to the airplane. In latter years, he would have a little help. I  picked on him last time. I said: David, you are still telling that  good-looking lady that you can't run so she will come and get you every  day and carry you to the airport. We had a good laugh over that.

In his briefcase--and there is no telling how long he had been  carrying that briefcase--at the top of that briefcase always was his  Bible.

I remember sitting on the plane. He was in 10D, and I was in 10E. As  soon as you sit down, you have a little conversation. When the plane is  about ready to take off, he would open that Bible and start reading it.  I can tell you he read it day in and day out on that airplane. I  remember literally picking up some of the pages one day when they fell  out, and how I wish we all had that devotion.

He was a wonderful man. He will be missed by many, including me and  my family.

Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the House to please  rise for a moment of silence in memory of our colleague, Congressman    David Scott of Georgia.