In Memory of the Honorable Judy Thomas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690837/in-memory-of-the-honorable-judy-thomas


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a remarkable educator,  dedicated public servant, and longstanding friend, the Honorable Judy  Thomas. Sadly, Judy passed from labor to reward on April 19, 2025. A  funeral service to celebrate her remarkable life will be held on  Thursday, May 8, 2025, at St. Luke Church in Columbus, Georgia.

The genesis of Judy Thomas's life began with her birth to the union  of William H. Lt. (Bill) Williams and Alice Williams. She graduated  from Jordan Vocational High School in 1964, later earning her  bachelor's degree in Elementary Education from the Women's College of  Georgia, now Georgia College and State University.

Judy began her teaching career at Bibb Elementary School in Columbus,  where she was a fifth and sixth grade teacher. Due to her unwavering  commitment to education and the future of young people, she was honored  as Columbus Teacher of the Year in 1973. During that same time, she  served as President of the Muscogee Association of Educators. On May 9,  2021, Judy was awarded the Jim Buntin Leadership Award for Excellence  in Education for the Muscogee Educational Excellence Foundation, which  was a special honor for her as this award was named after her close  friend and former Muscogee County School Superintendent.

Judy eventually moved to California to continue her educational  career, but Columbus was never far from her heart. She returned to her  beloved Columbus in 2006 and became actively involved in the successful  Mayoral Campaign of Mayor Jim Wetherington, where she served as Chief  of Staff from 2006 to 2010. During her time in the Mayor's Office, she  was instrumental in passing the 2008 SLOST Referendum, which enabled  the hiring of 100 police officers in Columbus--a measure that continues  to benefit our community today. Judy left the Mayor's Office in 2010 to  launch her campaign for the Columbus City Council.

Elected to the Columbus City Council in 2011, Judy served honorably  for four terms representing District Nine (At-Large). She diligently  assumed the role of Budget Chair for several Council cycles, always  focused on fiscal responsibility while ensuring that the needs of  Columbus citizens were met. Her fingerprints and legacy will be evident  in Columbus for many years to come. Her voice and vote were critical in  efforts to renovate Golden Park, which helped bring the Atlanta Braves  Double-A team to our city.

Judy was a truth-teller, always voting her conscience, earning the  respect and admiration of those she served.

Throughout her life, Judy exemplified a commitment to service, a  trait she inherited from her parents, who were both devoted to their  community--her father as the Columbus District Fire Chief and her  mother as the first certified medical assistant in the State of  Georgia. It has been said that ``service is the rent that we pay for  the space that we occupy here on this earth.'' Judy paid her rent and  paid it well, dedicating her time and resources to numerous community  organizations, including the National Infantry Museum, the Muscogee  Educational Excellence Foundation, Open Door Community Center, St. Luke  Church Administrative Board, Girls in the Game, Chattahoochee Council  of the Boy Scouts of America, Jordan Vocational High School College and  Career Academy Advisory Board, RiverCenter for the Performing Arts,  Columbus State University Military Affiliated Student Support Fund, the  Rotary Club of Columbus, and the Miracle Riders.

On a personal note, I have had the privilege of knowing Judy for many  years. I am incredibly grateful for her support and the fidelity of her  friendship. She never told me what she felt I wanted to hear; instead,  she always shared what she felt I needed to hear.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives  to join my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the more than 765,000  people of Georgia's Second Congressional District, in honoring the life  and legacy of Councilor Judy Thomas. Moreover, we extend our deepest  sympathies to Councilor Thomas's family, friends, colleagues, and all  those who mourn her loss during this difficult time of bereavement. We  pray that they will find consolation and comfort through abiding faith  and the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks, and months to come.