In Memory of Clifford Odell Rutledge


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688153/in-memory-of-clifford-odell-rutledge


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a dedicated husband,  loving father, doting grandfather, committed educator, astute  entrepreneur, patriotic soldier, broadcast hall of famer and friend of  longstanding, Mr. Clifford Odell Rutledge. Sadly, Cliff passed from  labor to reward on Sunday, February 16, 2025. A funeral service to  celebrate his extraordinary life will be held on Wednesday, February  26, 2025, at Nichols Chapel AME Church in Phenix City, Alabama.

Cliff's journey began with his birth to Dock and Willie Mae Rutledge.  He graduated from South Girard High School in Phenix City and furthered  his education at Alabama A&M University in Huntsville, Alabama.  Following his studies, Cliff served our country honorably in the United  States Army from 1950 to 1953 during the Korean Conflict.

It has been said that ``Education is the passport to the future; it  belongs to those who prepare for it today.'' Cliff dedicated a  significant part of his life to preparing young people for their  futures, embarking on a distinguished 41-year career in education. His  educational journey included roles at his alma mater, South Girard High  School, South Girard Elementary, and Ridgecrest Elementary, where he  coached junior high basketball teams and instilled in his students the  importance of winning in the game of life.

Throughout his career, Cliff pursued continuous improvement through  advanced studies in school administration at both Auburn and Tuskegee  Universities. He served as a teacher and principal at Susie E. Allen  Elementary School and later became the Director of Community Education  for the Phenix City Public Schools, overseeing Head Start and Adult  Education Programs.

In addition to his contributions to education, Cliff was a gifted  radio broadcaster. His journey began in the late 1950s as the host of a  Sunday morning gospel show on WCLE. In 1964, he joined WOKS radio  station, where he launched his sports announcing career, becoming a  trusted voice in the Chattahoochee Valley sports community. His  dedication to broadcasting earned him induction into the Chattahoochee  Valley Sports Hall of Fame in 2014.

Cliff was not only committed to education and broadcasting but also  to his community. As the saying goes, ``Service is the rent that we pay  for the space that we occupy here on this earth.'' Cliff paid his rent  well and he paid it well. His commitment to justice led him to co-found  United to Save Ourselves, an organization dedicated to equality and  change. His efforts were recognized by several community organizations,  including the USO's Hometown High Achievers Award in 2002 and the  SAMARC Foundation Award, which honored him as a community legend in  2012. In 2020, the City of Phenix City recognized him with a  Trailblazer award during a Black History Proclamation Event, and in  2023, the Alabama State Conference of the NAACP honored him with their  esteemed Humanitarian Award.

Cliff loved his family deeply and held his faith close to his heart.  He began serving God early in life at Nichols Chapel AME Church, where  his musical talents flourished. His passion for music led him to serve  as Minister of Music at the church and as a member of the Board of  Trustees.

None of Cliff's achievements would have been possible without the  love and support of his family, including his late wife of 50 years,  Sadie Jean Nix Rutledge, his son, Timothy Thomas; his granddaughter,  Clemitruis Hartley, and his niece and devoted caregiver, Decliffia  Coleman and a host of other relatives who loved him dearly.

On a personal note, Cliff was my longtime friend and supporter for  over 50 years. He was also my brother in the bond of Kappa Alpha Psi  Fraternity, Inc. His wise counsel and sage advice have profoundly  influenced my journey and success as I serve in Congress. For that, I  will always be grateful. Moreover, his life and career exemplify the  noble purpose of our great fraternity--``Achievement in all fields of  human endeavor.'' Truly the world is a better place because of Cliff.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me, my wife Vivian, and the  more than 765,000 people of Georgia's Second Congressional District in  honoring the life and legacy of Mr. Clifford Odell Rutledge. We extend  our deepest sympathies to his family, friends, colleagues, and all  those who mourn his loss. May we all find comfort in our abiding faith  and the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks, and months ahead.