Recognizing Macon's Next Level Community Development Center


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693506/recognizing-macons-next-level-community-development-center


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  achievements of the Next Level Community Development Center, a  community nonprofit organization driven by its mission to foster  academic achievement, college and career readiness, parental  involvement, and youth development through mentorship and programming  in Middle Georgia. The organization celebrated its 25th year of service  at their annual closing ceremony on July 10, 2025, at the Macon City  Auditorium in Macon, Georgia.

Executive Director Lakesia Toomer has worked hard with her staff to  help ensure that Next Level is a safe haven and launchpad for all  children and families that need it. It is their solemn mission to  ensure that no child is left behind, and every child is equipped with  the tools they need to succeed throughout their lives. For a quarter of  a decade, the staff and volunteers have worked tirelessly to provide  students with tutoring and educational programs, as well as courses  concerning leadership development, financial literacy, and community  service. Through these activities, students are given the opportunity  to learn about the jobs of the future and to tour nationally ranked  colleges and universities while gaining essential college and career  readiness skills.

Next Level is known for its immersive summer experiences like Camp  Zion, but the organization is not limited to the summer months; its  work continues throughout the year, through crucial after-school  programming that extends the mission of academic success and personal  growth for students, while providing parents opportunities to finding  meaningful employment and attending school so that their families can  get ahead and stay ahead.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt said, ``We cannot always build the  future for our youth, but we can build our youth for the future.''

At its core, the Next Level Community Development Center is proof  that when a community comes together to uplift its children, it doesn't  just change individual lives; it transforms generations to make our  communities safer, wealthier, and more attractive to economic  development and growth.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the United States House of  Representatives to join me in celebrating the Next Level Community  Development Center team and 25 successful years of service to the  Middle Georgia community. Their dedication, leadership, and compassion  are invaluable, and I am confident that this organization will continue  to shape future generations of outstanding young leaders for years to  come.