Recognizing the Honorable Al Hutchins


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698107/recognizing-the-honorable-al-hutchins


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor Al  Hutchins of Blakely, Georgia, who is retiring after more than 20 years  of dedicated service on the Blakely City Council. An event to celebrate  his extraordinary career in public service will be held on Tuesday,  December 16, 2025, at the Al Hutchins Community Center in Blakely,  Georgia.

Councilman Hutchins has devoted 25 years and 4 months to public  service in our region, including more than two decades representing his  community through the City of Blakely and as a representative with the  Southwest Georgia Regional Commission. Throughout his long career he  has been a steady and principled leader, working to strengthen local  government, improve services for residents, and support community  development across southwest Georgia.

His commitment to service has earned him numerous honors, including  the Unsung Hero Award, Certificates of Congressional Recognition,  multiple recognitions from the Southwest Georgia Regional Commission  for long service and perfect attendance, a Certificate of Recognition  from the City of Blakely for 20 years of service, awards from the  Georgia Municipal Association for achievement and distinction, a  resolution from Representative Gerald Greene and the Georgia House of  Representatives, and recognition from the U.S. Census Bureau for  community partnership and engagement--among many other certificates of  appreciation from local organizations. These awards reflect the respect  he has earned from colleagues, civic partners, and constituents. It has  been said that the ``True person of success is not the person that  climbs the ladder of this life with two hands but climbs the ladder of  this life with one hand and reaches back with the other.'' Throughout  his career in public service, Councilman Hutchins has always reached  back to help others to reach their full potential.

Beyond his public work, Al Hutchins is a devoted family man and  active member of his faith community. He and his wife, Alice Hutchins,  are parents to Machelle (Joyce) Hutchins, Allison (Andrea) Harrison,  and Tre Hutchins, and proud grandparents of TiGeronika Lindsey, Bryson  Hutchins, and Jru Harrison. He is a member of Empowerment Temple under  the leadership of Apostle Turkeisa Rushin.

On a personal note, Councilman Hutchins and his wife, Alice have  become trusted friends and confidantes. They have supported me as their  congressman and for their support, I will be forever grateful. One of  the things that I appreciate most about Councilman Hutchins is the fact  that he has wonderful sense of humor and the fact that you can almost  count on him to tell a ``good joke.''

As Councilman Hutchins begins his well-earned retirement, Vivian and  I join his family, friends, and the people of Blakely in thanking him  for his tireless service and leadership. His steady stewardship and  commitment to the common good, have left a lasting and positive mark on  his community. On behalf of the more than 765,000 people of the 2nd  Congressional District and my colleagues, I once again thank him for  his service and wish him, Alice, and their family every blessing in the  years ahead.