Recognizing Mrs. Juanita Carson Booker


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694759/recognizing-mrs-juanita-carson-booker


Mr. BISHOP. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a loving mother,  dedicated grandmother, trailblazing leader, dedicated community servant  and faithful woman of God, Mrs. Juanita Carson Booker. Mrs. Booker  celebrated her 95th Birthday with her family, friends, and community  leaders at a celebration on August 21, 2025, at the Green Island  Country Club in Columbus, Georgia.

The Genesis of the Life of Juanita Booker began with her birth in  Reynolds, Georgia to the union of Thomas Carson and Mildred Dent Carson  Perry. She was primarily raised by her grandmother, Mrs. Leather Dent  who instilled in her a love of serving others and an unwavering faith  in our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.

Instilled with a love of learning, Mrs. Booker graduated from Albany  State College with a Bachelor of Science Degree, a Master of Science  Degree in Counseling and Guidance from Fort Valley State College, and a  Specialist Degree in Education and Counseling and Guidance from Auburn  University.

Armed with the knowledge and skill, Mrs. Booker turned that gift into  a 46-year career in Education that touched the lives of thousands of  young people. Her career encompassed 12 years as a classroom teacher, 7  years as Director of Guidance at Talbotton Road Junior High School, 7  Years as Director of Guidance at Daniel Junior High School, and 20  Years as the first Coordinator of Guidance Services for the Muscogee  County School District. Because of her trailblazing effort, the  Muscogee County School Board voted to name the counseling and social  work department after her. A ceremony to commemorate this occasion was  held on August 21, 2025, at the school board's administrative offices.

For over 70 years, Mrs. Juanita Booker has devoted her life to  uplifting others, especially children, through her work as an educator  and community leader. She has exemplified the values of compassion,  perseverance, and faith--qualities that have earned her deep respect  and admiration from those who know her.

As a faithful 73-year member of First African Baptist Church, Mrs.  Booker has held numerous leadership positions, including Deaconess,  Trustee, and Finance Committee Member, where she has demonstrated her  commitment to spiritual growth and community service. Her involvement  in various initiatives showcases her unwavering dedication to improving  the lives of others.

Mrs. Booker's service extends far beyond her church. She has been a  consistent advocate for children's welfare and has worked relentlessly  to provide opportunities for underserved populations. Her tireless  efforts reflect her core belief that every child deserves access to  quality education and a supportive community. Mrs. Booker has been  involved with many social and civic organizations recognizing her  enduring legacy to her community to include Partners in Education  Coordinator, Department of Family and Children Services, Columbus  Community Center, Student Assistant Professional Association, Rape  Crisis Center, Women Wanting Justice, Family Center, Jack and Jill of  America, Inc. (Local Charter Member), Jack and Jill of America  Foundation, Columbus Chamber of Commerce Ambassadors, Historical  Columbus Foundation Scholarship, Girl Scouts, Girls, Inc., Columbus  State University Teen Achievers, Orchettes Civic and Social Club,  Matron Bridge Club (President), Starlight Bridge Club (Secretary),  Girlfriends Bridge Club (President), Magnificent Bridge Club, and  Network, Inc.

Moreover, her contributions to organizations such as Alpha Kappa  Alpha Sorority, Inc., Gamma Tau Omega Chapter, where she is a Golden  Soror and Pearl Member and SISTERS, Inc. highlight her commitment to  enriching the lives of those around her. Mrs. Booker's passion for  service is infectious as she inspires others to get involved and make a  difference.

Juanita Carson Booker is not only a devoted mother and grandmother,  but also a cherished friend and mentor to many. Her kindness, grace,  and integrity serve as a model for us all and remind us of the profound  impact one individual can have on the community.

On a personal note, it has been an honor to know Mrs. Booker for  almost five decades. I will always cherish her friendship as well as  her sage counsel and advice that have been invaluable to me as I have  served in Congress. Accordingly, the impact of her life is inspiring  and exemplifies the kind of love and devotion to others for which we  should all aspire.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join my wife Vivian and me, along  with the more than 765,000 people of Georgia's Second Congressional  District in honoring the life and service of Mrs. Juanita Carson Booker  on the occasion of her 95th birthday.