Rounds, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Lankford, Mr. McConnell, Ms. Lummis,


Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Last week, tens of thousands of Americans of all  ages, from across the country, gathered in our Nation's Capital to  march for the most vulnerable among us: preborn children. I am so proud  to live in a country with such a strong and resilient pro-life  movement. While we have experienced many ups and downs in the cause for  life, one thing has never changed: We have never given up.

The fact that the March for Life has endured for 53 years speaks  volumes about our Nation's heart and soul. Deep down, we know that  protecting those who cannot defend themselves is the foundation for  every meaningful cause in today's society. That conviction is why so  many of my pro-life colleagues step forward to lead legislative efforts  to protect vulnerable preborn babies and their mothers.

Today, I am reintroducing one of those efforts. The SAVE Moms and  Babies Act would protect vulnerable women and their preborn children  from the real dangers of chemical abortions.

The chemical abortion regimen is falsely advertised to be safer than  Tylenol. Tragically, many women have learned otherwise. Nearly 11  percent experience serious or life-threatening complications such as  sepsis, hemorrhage, infection, and emergency surgery within 45 days of  ingesting the pills.

The SAVE Moms and Babies Act would restore commonsense safety  protections, including requiring an in-person doctor visit before  mifepristone is prescribed. This drug should never be administered  through the mail, where abusers and traffickers can exploit others.

Until these safety protections are restored, I want to speak directly  to any woman who is considering taking the abortion bill: Please  reconsider.

I thank my colleagues--30 pro-life Senators--who are joining me in  reintroducing the SAVE Moms and Babies Act. It is so important. Until  these safety protections are restored, this is so important.                                  ______