Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700508/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, this past weekend, President Trump launched  military operations against the terrorist Iranian regime, alongside our  ally, Israel, killing the Ayatollah and many of his top lieutenants in  the IRGC and the council of clerics.

This operation came after almost a year of negotiations to reach a  diplomatic solution to end Iran's nuclear ambitions, ballistic missiles  program, and funding of terrorism. Time and again, we were left  emptyhanded because of the regime's unwillingness to honestly negotiate  in good faith.

After exhausting all potential diplomatic means, only then did the  President initiate Operation Epic Fury.

It is also important to point out that this engagement is not a new  war. The Iranian regime has been at war with America for 47 years.

They have been attacking Americans, our military, our allies, and our  partners. They advocate for death to America. They hate us. They hate  America. They hate Israel. They hate Europe. They hate the West. They  massacre their own people for simple public dissent and peaceful  protest.

They send money to Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthis, and other terror  proxies around the world with the express interest of killing Americans  and Israelis. They funded the October 7 terrorist attack that murdered  and kidnapped not just Israelis but Americans. The Ayatollah and his  conspirators paid the ultimate price.

This is the maximum pressure campaign President Trump advocated for.  This is how we secure our national security so that Americans can be  free and safe and our allies in the Middle East can be free and safe.

The long-term strategic benefits here in regard to peace and  stability are immense. The only way to ensure peace and economic  prosperity in the Middle East is to eliminate the single greatest  threat to it.

As far as the War Powers Act goes, the President is fully compliant.  Congress was notified. Congress was briefed. The fact is that the  President has 60 to 90 days to conduct this operation. If Congress sees  fit at that time, we will address it.

Mr. Speaker, to try to unilaterally end this operation puts our  national security at risk, puts our troops at risk, and puts our allies  at risk.

Iran is belligerently striking Arab partners as we speak. They are  hitting civilian sites and trying to kill American soldiers. In fact,  they have killed six.

Many of my colleagues said nothing when Barack Obama engaged in a 7- month campaign in Libya. In fact, when a War Powers Resolution was on  this floor, many opposed it, including Chuck Schumer, the Senate  minority leader.

Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, the fact is that when we look back,  Presidents of both parties have acted under Article II and without the  express authorization of Congress.

Former Speaker Nancy Pelosi said it best when she said that Barack  Obama could conduct the operation in Libya for 7 months and did not  require congressional authority.

Stop being hyperpartisan hypocrites and acknowledge the simple fact  that the President is legally justified. Vote ``no'' on this War Powers  Resolution.