Enhanced Iran Sanctions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700741/enhanced-iran-sanctions-act-of-2025


Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, for decades, Presidents and Members of  Congress of both parties have talked about peace in the Middle East.  Stability in the Middle East and freedoms for all who live there is  something that all of us should be able to agree on, and almost  everyone also agrees that Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon and that  Iran is the greatest state sponsor of terrorism.

Unfortunately, 53 of my colleagues from across the aisle last week  chose not to support that belief by voting against a resolution that  declared Iran the greatest state sponsor of terrorism.

For the first year of this term, President Trump has prioritized  putting in place maximum pressure on the Iranian regime and  prioritizing negotiations to stop their uranium enrichment, to stop  their nuclear ambitions, to stop their ballistic missiles program, and  to stop their financing of terrorism. Unfortunately, the regime refused  to negotiate in good faith.

Two weeks ago, President Trump executed Operation Epic Fury to take  their ballistic missiles program off the table for them. This offensive  also destroyed their air defense system and their naval capabilities.

Look where our partners and allies in the region are. They are  opposed to a nuclear Iran. They are opposed to an Iranian regime that  possesses dangerous intercontinental ballistic missiles, and they  support the United States maximum pressure campaign.

That is because they know this military engagement did not happen in  silo. This was not a war of choice. The fact is Iran has been at war  with the United States for 47 years. The regime has chanted ``death to  America'' for 47 years. The regime is responsible for the deaths of  thousands of Americans, thousands of Israelis, and thousands of  Muslims.

Mr. Speaker, you see them lashing out indiscriminately and striking  civilian targets in Arab states.

Why?

It is because they are the face of evil, and they are the greatest  force for terrorism around the globe.

This comes after the regime funded Hamas' attack on Israel on October  7. It comes after they funded constant Houthi attacks and funded  Hezbollah.

Where did they get this financing from?

They get it from the illicit oil trade, the oil trade in which China  is the biggest purchaser of Iranian petroleum.

I was proud last Congress working alongside then-Senator and now- Secretary of State Marco Rubio in passing the SHIP Act so that we could  actually enforce sanctions against the Iranian regime and their illicit  oil trade. It comes on the heels of a regime in Iran that has sought to  destroy the United States and Israel and our partners.

Maximum pressure means strength in the face of these egregious and  tragic offenses. My bill, the Enhanced Iran Sanctions Act, builds on  the Trump administration's existing sanctions regime to give them more  tools to cripple the illicit oil trade and to cripple this unholy  alliance between China, Russia, Iran, Venezuela, Cuba, North Korea, and  other bad actors.

Now, it does so by authorizing the administration to place secondary  sanctions on enablers of Iran's illicit oil trade that have financed  their proxies, that have financed their missiles program, and that have  financed their nuclear ambitions and their uranium enrichment. This  includes essentially any company that has engaged in a transaction  involving the processing, refining, export, or transfer of Iranian oil.  This includes foreign banks, financial institutions, insurance  companies, flagging registries, and more.

If someone is knowingly providing financial support to the Iranian  regime's largest influx of cash, we should know about it, and we should  stop it. That is what this bill does.

This bill expands the authorities to cripple this oil network, to  stop the financing of ballistic missiles, to stop the financing of  uranium enrichment, to stop the financing of Iran's nuclear ambitions,  and to stop their financing of terrorism. This is a multifaceted  approach.

We saw under the Biden administration an administration that not only  did not enforce sanctions against Iran, but it also allowed the illicit  oil trade to explode to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars.

Those funds are what funded October 7. That is what funded the death  and destruction that we have seen across the Middle East.

We saw under the Obama Administration an attempt to appease the  Iranian regime, to drop off pallets of cash in the hopes that somehow  that would stop them from pursuing nuclear weapons, that that would  somehow stop them from possessing enriched uranium, and that that would  somehow stop them from financing terrorism.

Peace through strength means understanding that sometimes you must  take action and that sometimes you must use military force. After the  regime refused to negotiate in good faith and was mass-producing  ballistic missiles at such a rate that it would be almost impossible in  the future to stop their nuclear ambitions, President Trump took  action.

This was not an illegal war. This was not a war of choice.  Republicans and Democrats have said ad nauseam that Iran cannot get a  nuclear weapon. Sadly, it seems some of my colleagues would be okay if  they did so, as long as Donald Trump wasn't President. Some of my  colleagues hate Donald Trump so much that they care more about the fact  that he is President than they do about the fact that he is stopping  the Iranian regime's 47-year reign of terror.

I have listened to some of my colleagues over the last 2 weeks in  amazement. They have completely reversed their positions on so many  issues, including 53 who just last Congress voted to say that Iran is  the greatest state sponsor of terrorism but now no longer believe that.  You have candidates running for Congress who are saying that the United  States is the terrorist regime. It is insanity.

The fact is that we have a responsibility to stop this regime cold,  to cut the head off of the snake. That is precisely what we are doing  through military action and through a sanctions regime that has  crippled Iran's capabilities.

There is more work to be done, and that is why we are passing this  legislation. I thank Chairman Mast and Ranking Member Meeks for  supporting this through committee. I thank President Trump and the  administration for supporting this bill today.

Mr. Speaker, it is a testament that, even if there are disagreements,  we can find bipartisan support. We can find a path forward. We should  be giving this administration and future administrations every tool  necessary to ensure that Iran never gets a nuclear weapon.