Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698848/haiti-economic-lift-program-extension-act


Mr. LAWLER. Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman Smith for his leadership  and bringing this bill forward. I thank Dr. Murphy for his leadership  along with our subcommittee chairman, Adrian Smith, as well.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Haiti Economic Lift  Program Extension Act.

In my Hudson Valley district just north of New York City, we have a  vibrant Haitian community. It is actually one of the largest Haitian  diaspora communities in the country, and it has been an honor  representing these great people and working with them over these many  years.

One of the things that they have taught me is that the American  people and the people of Haiti are interconnected. We have such  historic ties that go beyond the current political crisis, so it is  imperative that we step up and help uplift Haiti out of the present  circumstances.

Since their President was assassinated just a few years ago, the  Haitian people have endured hardship. They have endured political  unrest, and they have endured gangs engaging in kidnapping. The Haitian  people need hope, and they need support from the American people.

The HOPE/HELP preferential trade program helps do just that. It  lowers costs for Haitian businesses to export goods to the U.S.,  bolstering both economic development and stability for critical Haitian  industries. It helps move the country forward in a moment when they  need it most.

Forty percent of the Haitian population lives in the United States of  America. Our ties are longstanding, and it is in our interests to have  stability in a critical part of our hemisphere. As we see this  administration prioritize our hemisphere and focus on the challenges  throughout, in Venezuela, in Cuba, and in Colombia, it is imperative to  have a strong partnership with Haiti.

This legislation comes at a critical moment. I was proud to cosponsor  this, and I was proud to support Dr. Murphy and Chairman Smith's  efforts to get this across the finish line in a bipartisan way.

I thank my colleagues across the aisle, folks like  Greg Meeks, our  ranking member on the Foreign Affairs Committee, who has worked on  numerous issues pertaining to Haiti with me on that committee, and we  will continue to do so because it is imperative that we have a vibrant  partner in the Caribbean.

Madam Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to support this  legislation.