Recognizing Jim Monaghan


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698769/recognizing-jim-monaghan


Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the incredible  career of Jim Monaghan, a dedicated public servant who has spent a  lifetime serving the people of Stony Point.

Jim's public service began with a 29-year career in the New York City  Police Department, where he rose to the rank of lieutenant. From  January 2016 through this past December, he served as the town  supervisor of Stony Point, focusing on affordability for families and  seniors and ensuring public safety. Before becoming town supervisor,  Jim served for 2 years on the town board.

A lifelong Rockland County resident, Jim and his wife, Jackie, have  lived in Stony Point for 30 years with their two children and now their  grandchildren. Community and family remain central to his life. Jim and  his wife are active parishioners at Immaculate Conception Church and  have volunteered in community sports programs and nonprofits throughout  the county.

As Jim retires after a long career serving the people of Stony Point,  Rockland County, and New York, I am proud to recognize my good friend,  Jim Monaghan, for his many contributions to our community. May this  next chapter for him be just as fulfilling as the last.                             Honoring Anthony Adamo

Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Anthony  Adamo, southern region president of the Civil Service Employees  Association who passed away this week at the age of 46.

Born in Flushing, Queens, Anthony graduated from New Paltz High  School and began his career at SUNY New Paltz in 1999. Not long after,  he stepped up as a union activist in CSEA's SUNY New Paltz Local  working as a shop steward and grievance representative, driven by his  belief in standing up for the working people.

In 2009, Anthony was elected as the local president, a position he  held for 10 years, during which he also served as the chair of the  union's statewide political action committee.

In 2019, he became southern region president and was reelected by his  peers again in 2024. Additionally, Anthony served as an AFSCME delegate  and vice president of the New York State AFL-CIO.

Anthony embodied the very spirit of union leadership: passionate,  hardworking, and unwavering in his commitment to others. His legacy  will live on through the countless lives he touched and the workers he  proudly fought for. He was a great friend, an honest broker, and a true  New Yorker. I will miss my friend dearly, and may he be at peace.                        Honoring John ``Spo'' Esposito

Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of John  ``Spo'' Esposito, a remarkable young man from my district. John passed  away peacefully on December 28 at just 25 years old.

John grew up in Somers, New York, where he graduated from Somers High  School in 2018. A proud student-athlete, he was a member of the 2016  New York State Championship varsity football team, as well as the track  and basketball teams, forming lifelong friendships.

John went on to attend Manhattanville University earning his business  degree in 2023. He pursued his entrepreneurial spirit by working at B&E  Sports Collectibles and starting his own business, Eye On The Ball  Sports Collectibles, alongside his brother Joey, combining his love of  sports with his ambition and his family.

Beyond his accomplishments, John was defined by his heart. An avid  Yankees fan, he remained deeply connected to his community as a member  of the New York Bombers, a blind beep baseball team, and showed us all  what it means to persevere with humor, courage, and grace.

My deepest condolences go out to John's parents, Joe and Patti; his  brothers, Joey and Michael; and everyone who had the privilege of  knowing him.

May God bless his memory.                         Honoring Layla Elizabeth So

Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Layla  Elizabeth So, a remarkable young lady from Pearl River, New York, whose  kindness and creativity touched everyone who knew her. Layla passed  away on August 7, 2024, after a heroic 2-year battle with cancer.

Layla grew up in Pearl River, New York. She attended Lincoln Avenue  Elementary, Pearl River Middle School, and was a rising sophomore at  Pearl River High School where she earned High Honor Roll.

Layla excelled on the varsity bowling team, earning the most improved  player award. She also participated in the marine science club, enjoyed  baking, and volunteered at Pearl River Library.

One of Layla's proudest accomplishments was being a founding member  of Eagle Scout Troop 97G in New City. Her Eagle Project, completed  posthumously by Troop 97, transformed 10 55-gallon steel drums into  decorative trash cans for the town of Orangetown and earned her the  title of Eagle Scout after her final board of review in which she also  became a Life Scout.

Layla's legacy reminds us that life isn't always numbered in years  but in the impact we leave behind. Though her time with us and in our  community was far too short, Layla's ambition and kindness will endure.  May her memory always be a blessing.                           Honoring Pieter Grosbeck

Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of an  extraordinary Orangeburg resident, Pieter Grosbeck, who passed away at  the beginning of December due to a 9/11-related illness.

A proud Eagle Scout, a graduate of Tappan Zee High School and of  Rockland Community College, Pieter dedicated his life to serving  others. After working as a technician for ITT in Antarctica, Pieter  began his career in public safety with the NYPD in 1984, serving as a  patrolman in the 44th Precinct in the South Bronx.

In 1990, Pieter continued his career by joining the FDNY where he was  later assigned to Engine Company 3 in Chelsea and later transferred to  Battalion 7, serving with distinction until his retirement in 2018.

Pieter devoted 45 years of volunteer service to the Blauvelt  Volunteer Fire Company, serving as president, chief on three occasions,  and an active board member, being awarded life membership in 2019.

He was a loving husband to his wife, Lisa, for 32 years; a devoted  friend; and a man who consistently put others before himself. I extend  my deepest condolences to his family, his fellow firefighters, and all  those who had the privilege of knowing him.

May his memory be a blessing.