Subterranean Border Defense Act


Mr. CRANE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in favor of my bill,  the Subterranean Border Defense Act, a bipartisan piece of border  security legislation that I have introduced alongside the gentleman  from California (Mr. Correa).

Effective border security is created by overlapping deterrents,  something we always need at our borders. The Subterranean Border  Defense Act would help us address the growing threat of illicit cross- border tunnels by requiring annual reports to Congress on counter- tunneling operations, fortifying our security system at the border.

Put simply, this would help ensure that Congress has the necessary  data to forge another much-needed layer of defense.

As transnational criminal organizations continue to grow in both size  and sophistication, illicit cross-border tunnels along the southwest  border of the United States represent a significant and growing threat  to national security. Congress must address this deadly threat and  ensure U.S. Customs and Border Protection has the resources needed to  acquire counter-tunnel technology.

Since 1990, officials have discovered more than 140 tunnels that have  breached the U.S. border, with an 80 percent increase in tunnel  activity occurring since 2008.

Over the years, CBP has worked to combat these tunnels as part of  their overall strategy. In fact, the United States conducts research,  development, and test activities with Israel, which must contend with a  vast network of Hamas tunnels originating in the Gaza Strip. This  partnership helps us to detect and destroy tunnels in our respective  countries.

The FY23 NDAA mandated that CBP submit a one-time report to Congress  on a strategic plan to counter illicit cross-border tunnel operations.  This singular report has since led Congress to conduct critical  oversight and has enabled CBP to formalize many of the processes,  technologies, and resources needed to counteract illicit tunnels under  the U.S.-Mexico border.

My bill would expand on this success by mandating a report every year  going forward to ensure Congress has sufficient knowledge and oversight  regarding this dynamic threat.

With border crossings thankfully going down since January, I think it  is safe to assume this will drive threats at our border underground  through these tunnels.

I thank Mr. Correa for co-leading with me, and I urge my colleagues  on both sides of the aisle to support this legislation for a secure  southern border.