Recognizing Scripps Vice Chancellor Margaret Leinen


Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr. Margaret  Leinen, who is stepping down as director of Scripps Institution of  Oceanography and vice chancellor for marine science at the University  of California San Diego.

The Scripps Institution of Oceanography works to study and find  solutions to our most pressing environmental challenges, such as the  relationship among our oceans, climate change, and human health.

Under Dr. Leinen's leadership, Scripps grew its degree programs and  student enrollment, doubled its sponsored research and philanthropic  funding, and furthered UC San Diego's reputation as one of the  prestigious research institutions on the world stage.

Dr. Leinen has shaped our ocean and climate research. She oversaw the  commissioning of state-of-the-art research vessels, the opening of  multiple new facilities, and fostered Scripps' relationship with San  Diego's developing blue economy industry.

Dr. Leinen has also served as the U.S. Department of State's science  envoy for the oceans to Latin America and the Pacific and as assistant  director for geosciences at the National Science Foundation. I have  enjoyed working with her and learning from her at the U.N. climate  change conferences, or COP.

Dr. Leinen's work has left an extraordinary mark on oceanography. I  thank Dr. Margaret Leinen for her service. Along with all of San Diego,  I wish her the best in her retirement.                       Recognizing Dr. Alessandro Sette

Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a constituent of  mine, Dr. Alessandro Sette, for being awarded the Order of Merit of the  Italian Republic and being granted the status of knight, or Cavaliere  dell'Ordine della Stella d'Italia, for his exceptional work in  immunology. He was previously elected fellow of the American  Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Academy of  Microbiology.

Dr. Sette is a professor at the La Jolla Institute for Immunology in  the centers for autoimmunity and inflammation, infectious disease, and  vaccine research. He has dedicated his career to understanding our  body's immune system and developing interventions against cancer,  autoimmunity, allergies, and infectious diseases. His laboratory works  to understand scientific structures called epitopes that the immune  system recognizes in diseases, and he uses this knowledge to improve  our immune responses.

Dr. Sette's research led to the creation of the Immune Epitope  Database, which is a vital source of experimental data on antibody and  T cell responses. Dr. Sette's research revealed how T cells can fight  pathogens like tuberculosis, dengue, SARS-CoV-2, pertussis, and the  virus that causes Mpox.

Dr. Sette and the La Jolla Institute team were the first in the world  to publish a detailed analysis of our immune system's response to the  coronavirus. Their research exemplifies San Diego's role in developing  the cures and treatments of tomorrow.

I congratulate Dr. Alessandro Sette on his achievements and on this  most recent distinct honor of being knighted by the Italian Republic.                         Recognizing Dr. Shane Crotty

Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the remarkable  Shane Crotty, a San Diegan and world-renowned immunologist whose work  has transformed our understanding of the human immune system.

Dr. Crotty's groundbreaking research into the body's response to  virus was not only vital to the global fight against COVID-19 but also  to the advancement of vaccines and treatments for a wide range of  infectious diseases.

In recognition of Dr. Crotty's enduring contributions to research on  the immune system, he was recently elected to the American Academy of  Arts and Sciences. This honor is a testimony to the value of his  scientific contributions and to the curiosity, integrity, and  commitment to public service that define his work.

At a time when public trust in science is more important than ever,  Dr. Crotty stands as a beacon of integrity, innovation, and hope. His  tireless pursuit of knowledge continues to save lives and will inspire  future generations of researchers.

I am grateful for his leadership and proud to honor his legacy, and I  thank Dr. Crotty.