Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694870/energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. McCORMICK. Mr. Chair, I rise to offer an amendment to H.R. 4553.

Mr. Chair, my amendment No. 21 is to the Energy and Water Development  and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2026.

My amendment No. 21 prevents the Army Corps of Engineers from closing  campgrounds around Lake Lanier. My amendment will ensure that these  campgrounds are open for my constituents and people from all over the  country to enjoy the outdoors in Georgia's Seventh District.

Lake Lanier is the most visited lake of 464 federally operated lakes  in the United States, with well over 10 million annual visitors from  all over the country. The Army Corps runs the lake and the campgrounds  and parks surrounding it.

This summer, the Corps closed many of the campgrounds around the  lake, citing a lack of manpower and resources. Congress had provided  $8.7 billion in annual appropriations for 2025, which was actually $1.5  billion more than the agency's own requested budget. They cited safety  concerns and manning issues, which we addressed appropriately, although  they announced the closures after they actually did it.

Thanks to the efforts of myself, Congressman Clyde, and our amazing  local officials, State legislators, and county commissioners, we were  able to reverse most of these closures and keep almost all of our parks  open under the control of our local governments.

Congressman Clyde and I also introduced the Lanier Parks Local Access  Act to cut red tape and allow local partners to efficiently allocate  budgetary resources properly across all campgrounds.

Nevertheless, the Army Corps of Engineers should never be able to  shut down our facilities without any accountability.

In today's day and age, where people are hooked on their cell phones  and electronics, it is more important than ever to protect our outdoors  so that our constituents can touch grass instead of a computer screen.

In short, citizens should never be denied access to the very parks  that they fund.

Mr. McCORMICK. Mr. Chair, in order to address my peers' concerns, I  will restate in the middle of this where I said specifically $8.7  billion in annual appropriations in 2025, which was $1.5 billion more  than they requested. This is not underfunded. This is not declining.  This is actually more than appropriate to keep those parks open.

They had a manning issue, which was brought on by themselves, by not  manning when they had the appropriate funds. Then when the President  put a limitation on that, we addressed that. It was opened up again. We  actually helped them recruit and staff. We actually opened up to local  governance, as well. It is not like we didn't provide multiple  solutions to keep those campgrounds open.

They also have objections to safety issues because of the inability  of safety vehicles getting to those places. Ironically, by limiting the  access, the traffic is more congested and is made more unsafe.

I happen to be a safety officer, trained in Monterey in the military,  to ensure these kinds of things were actually addressed. I want to make  sure they are not only funded but also very safe and manned  appropriately.

Mr. Chair, all those issues were actually taken into consideration. I  don't think this is a partisan issue at all. I definitely want to see  people have access to those very funded things. This actually produces  funds. This actually is a moneymaker for the government and is well- funded and should be well-staffed.

There shouldn't be any objections to this from the standpoint of the  concerns that my colleague has. I think we did address those things  appropriately.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.