Standing with Students in Underserved Communities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700562/standing-with-students-in-underserved-communities


Mr. McCORMICK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to discuss legislation  that is near and dear to me. It updates outdated Federal definitions  and ensures  fairness for students attending universities that serve some of the  most historically underserved communities across the country.  Importantly, this bill has benefits with no cost.

My last tour as a marine was serving as the marine officer instructor  at Morehouse, Spelman, Clark Atlanta, and Morris Brown as an adjunct  professor. I then had the distinguished honor of attending and serving  as student body president at Morehouse School of Medicine.

That experience shaped not only my medical career but also my  understanding of leadership, service, and the responsibility we have to  expand opportunity for the next generation.

Morehouse School of Medicine was founded to give opportunities to the  underserved minority population and give them access to careers in  healthcare and top-quality medical education. Its mission to serve the  underserved is clear. Yet, for far too long, Federal policy has failed  to keep pace with that mission.

This mission, which harkens back to the core principles for the  foundation of the Republican Party itself, is a vital promise we should  always strive to uphold.

Outdated definitions in statute have limited students at institutions  like Morehouse to the resources and support they rightfully deserve. My  bill is one small step to help correct that. It modernizes Federal  language so that historically Black colleges and universities and other  historically underserved institutions are treated fairly and equitably  under the law in the way intended.

It ensures that students training to serve in rural communities,  urban neighborhoods, and medically fragile populations are not  disadvantaged by bureaucratic technicalities written decades ago.

As a graduate of Morehouse, I have seen the extraordinary talent and  commitment of students who are determined to make a difference. They  deserve policies that recognize their value and support their success.

Morehouse's legacy is incredible. I had the privilege of learning  from former Surgeon General Dr. David Satcher, a towering figure in  public health. His leadership set a standard of excellence and service  that continues to guide my work today.

The broader Morehouse community has helped shape our Nation through  leaders like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., whose moral clarity  transformed America; Jeh Johnson, who served as Secretary of Homeland  Security; Edwin Moses, an Olympic gold medalist who exemplified  discipline and determination; Samuel L. Jackson, whose artistic  achievements are recognized worldwide; and Admiral Alvin Holsey, who  had a long and distinguished military career.

These individuals reflect a tradition of excellence, resilience, and  service. The students walking the halls today carry that same  potential.

This legislation is about ensuring that Federal policy aligns with  the legacy that we are trying to establish. This is about opportunity.  It is about strengthening the pipeline of leaders, physicians,  scientists, and public servants our country so urgently needs.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill and stand  with students at historically underserved institutions in order to make  sure every institution that meets the criteria is included in the  growing and vital HBCU network of universities that are working every  day to serve America's communities.