Devastating Harm Caused By Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695606/devastating-harm-caused-by-trump-administration


Mr. IVEY. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentlewoman for hosting  this Special Order today and for the great work that she has done on  behalf of the State of Ohio and for the Nation. We serve on the  Appropriations Committee together, and I have had a chance to see her  do outstanding work on a firsthand basis, so I want to thank her for  her service.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of hardworking public servants  who were using their expertise and training for scientific advancement  that could save lives and preserve American leadership in technology  and innovation. Unfortunately, the Trump administration forced them out  of their jobs and out of their laboratories.

I had a chance to meet with many of these individuals over the last  few months. We had a job fair in my district not that long ago, and a  couple of people came through had a chance to chat with me.  Unfortunately, we didn't have anything that met the caliber of the  background and expertise that they possessed.

One was a Ph.D. researcher at NIH who had been doing clinical trials  on Alzheimer's research. She told me that what had happened was she had  been laid off. Everybody in her lab had been laid off. So what that  meant was the trial that they had been running for years got shut down.

As we all know with clinical trials, Alzheimer's, cancer, and  others--and I will come back to those--these aren't light switches, Mr.  Speaker. We can't just flip the switch and start it back. In some of  those instances, we have to start from scratch.

Alzheimer's is a disease that I have a special interest in. It killed  my father. I watched him waste away from Alzheimer's, and I now pay  closer attention to the impact that that disease can have and the way  it ravages thousands of people every year across the country. Instead  of doing the research to find a cure for Alzheimer's, their laboratory  got shut down.

Medical devices was another one. I met a gentleman who was a  mechanical engineer. He had been trained and earned his Ph.D. in  research. He worked for the Federal Government. I believe he was at the  FDA, if I recall correctly. He did tests to make sure that the medical  devices that were up for approval had been tested and actually worked  the way that they did.

He gave me an example. He said that pacemakers were one of those.  There are people who are trying to make innovations with respect to  these kinds of medical devices. The job at his office was to make sure  that these worked the right way and were safe and efficacious. His lab  got shut down.

I met another individual. She had a master's in public health. She  got fired. You won't imagine how ironic it was, Mr. Speaker. She got  fired, and she was doing work on measles. Just at the time they had the  major outbreak in Texas, she was laid off, and her group was canceled  out as well.

The New York Times, just last weekend I believe it was, published a  cover story on their magazine about losing the war on cancer. As you  know, Mr. Speaker, the United States has been one of the leading  innovators with respect to research, and cancer has been a huge focus  on that research. We have been doing outstanding work there and making  huge strides forward.

As I mentioned a moment ago, I am a cancer survivor, and I was a  beneficiary of the fact that we had innovations that changed the way  that treatment was provided just in time for when I came along. That  was 20 years ago. However, now we are shutting those clinical trials  down, and that article lays it out clearly and sadly.

It was a little ironic. Mr. Speaker. You may recall that here in this  Chamber, President Trump gave a speech. It looked kind of like a state  of the Union, but it wasn't actually that address, but there was a  young boy up in the seats over there who was a cancer survivor. He had  him stand up. He gave him a badge from, I think it was, Secret Service  and celebrated his survival. Just a few days later, the Trump  administration terminated research for pediatric cancer.

We have to find a way to make sure we don't lose the competition with  China. I just mentioned medical issues there, but the Trump  administration is doing so many things with respect to research and  development and high tech.

China, on the other hand, as we heard from one of my colleagues a  moment ago, is pushing employees. They are developing them. They can't  develop them fast enough, and they are pushing them into research and  work with respect to artificial intelligence and quantum computing,  while here in the United States, especially in the last 9 months, we  are doing everything we can--well, the Trump administration is doing  everything it can, it would seem, to limit the number of people who can  go into this kind of work. They are cutting back on the grants that  would allow people to do the research, and they are cutting the funding  for people who are going to school to earn their Ph.D.s to pay for  their education.

China is doing the exact opposite. To the extent the United States  has been behind on creating its own researchers and developers here in  the United States, we have had a lot of people come from overseas,  people who are doing outstanding work, but they come from other  countries. Then the Trump administration decided it wanted to cancel  their visas.

Some of the attacks on Harvard, in particular, the big threat was: We  are not going to let you have international students come to study. The  result of that was, international students from all around the world  who are the top of the line, doing outstanding work, this is the next  generation we want to help and have them come. Many of them come to the  United States from other places, and they like it here so much they  stay. They build their careers.

In fact, many of the research and innovation entities that we have in  the United States are run by people who have come from overseas,  immigrants who have come to the United States. But we are forcing them  away, scaring them away, and pushing them to other countries.

You have got to believe the other countries are welcoming them with  open arms. I was just talking to a group who trains doctors, medical  doctors. They said the people that we train here, they are being pulled  away to other countries now because they can complete their medical  training, go work overseas, the medical training gets covered, and so  they can get their medical education done and then go to work and have  a chance to be successful and provide the type of medical care and  treatment that we want to have here in the United States, but we are  losing that, as well.

We have got to make sure that we do everything we can to preserve the  institutions and the departments and  agencies that are doing great work here in the United States. NASA,  NOAA, FDA, and NIST are all doing great work. The universities we have  got here are doing great work on the R&D front. That is the only way we  are going to be able to win the competition with China. That includes  AI, quantum computing, and high-tech. Those are the places that gave us  the lead that we have in software and in the computer industry. GPS and  LASIK were spinoffs of R&D that was worked on at NASA. Instead of  building that up, the Trump administration is laying people off.

Mr. Speaker, 445,000 Federal employees lost their collective  bargaining rights. As the Senate report pointed out, in forcing out  tens of thousands of people who worked for the government--many of them  doing the science and tech work that I just talked about--the  Democratic staff report calls it: The $21 billion blunder, analyzing  the waste generated by DOGE.

DOGE didn't focus only on science and tech, but its impact has been  resonating there for sure in a very damaging way for the United States.

We need to work together to force the Trump administration to see the  error of its ways. We need to make sure that we get back on track so  that we can win the competition with China, preserve our leadership  role in the world, and build on the great advances that we have had  here in the United States.

Let's get to work.