District of Columbia Policing Protection Act


Mr. IVEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding, and I rise  in strong opposition to the gentleman's bill.

I appreciate my colleague from Louisiana. We have had a chance to  serve together on committees. I know he has a strong respect for law  enforcement, so I am not saying his heart is in the wrong place, but I  am saying this bill is wrong. I say that from personal experience.

He is right, I was never in an active car pursuit, but I was a  prosecutor here in Washington, D.C., and for 8 years in Prince George's  County, which is the eastern border of Washington, D.C., so I have seen  the results of some of these high-speed chases.

The bill that is drafted, that he has proposed, actually takes away a  reasonable balance that was drawn by the people here of the District of  Columbia, as is their right for a democracy.

Also, one of the things we need to keep in mind, and my colleague  addressed this kind of briefly but, frankly, skipped over it, what  happens when that chase leads to the death of innocent civilians?

When the gentleman said he had been in 100 car chases, a chill went  through my body, I have to say, because I have seen the results, the  deadly consequences of some of these car chases. When you have to go  talk to that family and tell them why their loved ones died, you don't  want to have to say that it was over something minor like a stolen car.

The balance that the city struck was that it should be for an  imminent violent offense, high-level felony, something like that that  you really understand why they would have engaged in the pursuit. This  bill would take that away and expand it open so that you could have  high-speed chases taking place with respect to misdemeanors.

This isn't a hypothetical for me. When I was the State's attorney in  Prince George's County, we actually had one of these. We had several,  but I will just pick one for purposes of time. A police officer saw a  stolen motorcycle zip down the beltway and decided to pursue it.  Stealing a motorcycle is a misdemeanor and speeding is a misdemeanor,  but he decided to pursue it anyway.

Mind you, this is during rush hour, so he had to pursue on the border  of the road, and speeds got up to over 100 miles an hour on the beltway  in rush hour. Of course, it is hard for a car to catch a motorcycle,  especially when it can weave in and out of traffic.

He didn't make the apprehension, but what he did do as he was  speeding along on the side of the road at 100-plus miles an hour was  come across debris on the road, and he tried to swerve to avoid it.  When he did that, the car jumped over the Jersey barrier between the  two lanes and took him into the opposite lane of oncoming traffic.

The car jumped over, hit the top of a car coming the opposite  direction, and killed two men on their way to a concert. They had  nothing to do with any kind of high-speed chase. They didn't have  anything to do with any kind of criminal activity. These were people  who were good folks, actually just visiting in the area--one was from  Buffalo--who died because of a high-speed chase over a minor  misdemeanor. That doesn't make any sense. It is not like that only  happens in Prince George's County.

Here in Washington, D.C., we had a similar kind of case. It was back  in 2016. It led up to a deadly chase on East Capitol and Benning Road.  The chases the gentleman was talking about, maybe those were rural  areas, but those are high-traffic areas even in the nighttime.  Sometimes these pursuits take place during the day.

This led to the death of an innocent man. This was over a stolen car.  Think about what you would say to that family when you are explaining  to them that their father, brother, or son lost his life over a stolen  car.

Then the other part that influences me--again, I represent Prince  George's  County now--but sometimes when they start high-speed chases in D.C.,  they go into Prince George's County, Montgomery County, or Northern  Virginia, and we lost someone during a high-speed chase on the  Baltimore-Washington Parkway; another stolen car case.

When we make these decisions about when a chase is permitted or  should be permitted or not, we need to keep in mind that there can be  deadly consequences from when this happens, and it frequently occurs.  It is not like this is unusual. The Washington Post just did a piece  about the Park Police. There have been 10 of these instances in recent  weeks.

I have a couple last points. One is liability. The Federal Government  is going to put this burden on the city.

Mr. IVEY. When that liability arises from a car chase ending in death  that didn't make any sense to a jury, the city could be on the hook for  millions of dollars. I guarantee they are not going to step in and have  the Federal Government cover that for them. When we think about these  things, we need to keep all of those things in mind.

The last point I will make, a variation on the home rule argument.  D.C. is not a rural jurisdiction. In fact, its roads aren't even as  straightforward as Manhattan. We have got diagonal roads that cut  across, we have circles, and we have very dangerous intersections. I  wish my colleagues knew how tricky it can be out there. A high-speed  chase in the middle of the District of Columbia, even during the middle  of the day is almost, by definition, dangerous almost under any  circumstances, so you better have a really good reason to engage in a  pursuit like that.

That is not the balance that is drawn by this bill. That is not the  balance that was drawn by the people of the District of Columbia. It  should be the balance, and they should make the call because when the  deaths happen, my colleagues won't be anywhere to be found.