China


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I had not planned to make a floor speech  right now, but I wanted to commend you on both your legislation and on  an important point that I think you enumerated both for this body and  for the Americans watching. 

  First of all, good piece of legislation. I supported it. I wanted it  to move out of the Banking Committee and get to the floor. It is  important legislation. Congratulations, and thanks for your leadership. 

  Second of all, as you began your speech, you distinguished between  the Chinese people and the Chinese Communist Party. I think many of us  are worried that the No. 1 long-term national security threat this  country faces is the technology race with the Chinese Communist Party  and the way that they use fake private sector companies to steal from  U.S. public and private sector entities. 

  When we talk about the problems--those of us who would consider  ourselves China hawks--we regularly end up using a shorthand,  ``China,'' when we have all spent a lot of time in the SCIF and in  private, and we know we mean the Chinese Communist Party, but we don't  always adequately qualify that for people who may be entering the  debate or new to the debate or looking to politicize the debate. 

  So I think it was very important, the points that you made that our  enemy here is not the 1.4 billion Chinese people; our opponent here is  the Chinese Communist Party, which is only about 90 million people--6  or 7 percent of the population--and even a lot of those people don't  actually believe Communist propaganda and nonsense about the fact that  so many of their people and people beyond their borders are not  perceived by the Chinese Communist Party as actually having dignity.  Some people just join the party because they need to for local  reasons--to get ahead or to maintain their property or their entities. 

  So the Chinese Communist Party is a tiny subset of what is happening  in China, and our battle, our fight, our problems are not with the  Chinese people; they are with the Chinese Communist Party. 

  One of the ways I learned this lesson was by having used a shorthand  for  Vladimir Putin a few times in the past, and I said ``Russia'' when I  meant ``Vladimir Putin.'' 

  I think the American people stand interested not just in the future  of the Chinese people but also of the Russian people, and both these  countries are led by some really bad actors. 

  One time I made a speech here on the floor about some of the terrible  things Vladimir Putin was doing to oppress his people and to meddle in  our election and other elections. 

  After the speech, which I thought covered the points I needed to  cover, Gary Kasparov, the former world chess champion, came and said:  Can I talk to you? 

  We went to lunch, and he said: If you actually want to fight against  Vladimir Putin--because freedom-loving people in the United States and  in Russia should be opposed to Vladimir Putin--it would be helpful that  you not, in disparaging Vladimir Putin, say a whole bunch of bad stuff  about the word ``Russia'' and you accidentally--he said to me--referred  to our problem as ``Russia'' when you meant ``Putin.'' 

  I think I have learned that lesson with regard to Russia, but I think  a lot of us around here don't always sufficiently distinguish between  China and the Chinese Communist Party. 

  So I just wanted to affirm and underscore your message--not just good  legislation that is good for Americans, is good for investors in the  United States and abroad, is good for a level playing field, but as we  oppose the bad actions of the Chinese Communist Party--their  intellectual property theft and their manipulation of currency and  numbers and public health data and on and on and on--our opponent is  not the Chinese people, and we should say that both so the American  people understand it and so that the Chinese people understand it. So I  commend you on the way you introduced your legislation today. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT