Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SASSE. Madam President, we are in the midst of two crises at  once--one health-related and one economic. I tend to think that the  prudent path forward on the health front is that even as we hope for  the best, we should continue planning for the worst. If this nasty  disease continues to ramp in roughly the same proportions as it has in  Italy and Spain, it will overwhelm our hospitals. So I think the social  distancing recommendations from the President and from the CDC over the  last 4 days are a prudent action. 

  At the same time, we are also in the midst of a genuine economic  crisis. Lots of moms and dads are worried that they might be laid off,  and lots of businesses are evaluating whether they are going to make  payroll and whether they are still going to be in business months down  the line. They are scared, and DC needs to act more urgently than we  usually do, but just saying we need to act urgently is not a substitute  for actually having good ideas and actually advancing good policies. 

  There is a herd mentality around this building right now where a lot  of normally smart people are literally saying things like: The most  important thing is to be fast, even if the ideas that are being  advocated for are not really ready for prime time and can't really  withstand the scrutiny of debate. That is a really dumb idea. It is a  ready-fire-aim approach. We do indeed need to work fast, but working  fast is no substitute for working smart. 

  Again, I agree that this virus and the strategies necessary to  contain it are producing some of the worst economic upheavals we have  seen in a generation. 

  Further, we need to be preparing for these unexpected economic  hardships to last for 6 months or even longer. But that fact is a  reason to prepare; it is not a reason to panic. That fact is a reason  to debate hard and fast but still to debate what good policy looks  like; it is not a reason to allow garbage policies to get by because  someone simply says: No, no, no, we have to go faster. You can't ask  questions about the policy. 

  Over the next 48 to 72 hours, this body will be making some crucial  decisions about somewhere between one and four spending packages. I  agree with the President that this is an unprecedented economic  situation and that the Federal Government, at the health level,  obviously has a fundamentally crucial role to play in helping us get  through this pandemic, which recognizes no borders or boundaries; thus,  the Federal Government has to spend real money. As the third or fourth  most conservative Member of the Senate by voting record, that is not  language I use a lot, saying that we are going to have to spend real,  significant amounts of money, but that is clearly true in this moment.  But saying we should spend real money is not the same as saying we  should spend like idiots. 

  Unfortunately, Washington, DC, so far has been handling our  responsibilities exactly as a lot of voters fear. Right now, the  proposal on the table, which just came over from the House of  Representatives, is for Washington, DC, to pull out its checkbook-- which is really your checkbook--and just start firing. If you are an  industry with a good lobbying team, you are told to line up at the door  of the Treasury Department and get in line because bailout after  bailout is probably in the offing. 

  Right now, the plan around here is basically just to start shoveling  money out of a helicopter, and the most important debate is whether  Democrats or Republicans get to shovel the money first. This is a bad  idea, and Washington should know better because 12 years ago something  just like this was tried, and the consequences were really significant  and lasting. They are still with us. 

  I want to be clear. I am not talking primarily about the total price  tag. The price tag matters, but the point I am trying to debate today  is whether we are going to spend the American people's money wisely or  foolishly, and we are not having a lot of debate about that. We are  hearing a lot of people saying that the only important question is  whether we can act fast enough. If you act fast but you spend money  that is ineffective, you didn't effectively act fast. 

  The Congress 12 years ago shoveled lots and lots of money into  supposedly shovel-ready projects which still can't be found today. One  trillion dollars in spending, and you can go to your Governor and you  can go to your State legislature and go to your business roundtables  and you try to find people who know where the $1 trillion of shovel- ready money went--I challenge you, that is not an easy thing to  achieve. 

  More than just the spending and the debt, though, it also produced  serious backlashes of national political movements on both the right  and the left. The Occupy Wall Street movement, some of which became the  Bernie Sanders constituency, and the tea party were both spawned out of  2008 and 2009 and are still with us in lots of ways that are not  ultimately constructive for our body politic.  

  We don't need a policy where Washington, DC, handpicks winners and  losers. There is no one here in this Chamber who is actually competent  to do that. We are indeed in a period of extraordinary uncertainty, but  no politician actually knows what happens next week, let alone 6 months  from now, and humility would require us to admit that a bit more. 

  The proposal currently on the table from Speaker Nancy Pelosi is to  blow through a massive amount of money on a policy core that isn't  actually well thought out. When you ask hard questions about the bill  that has come over from the House, there is nobody who actually defends  it as really good, well-thought-out policy. That is why the first  version of their bill, which passed so urgently last week at 120 pages,  last night required over 90 pages--we are right at 90 pages--of  technical corrections. Think about that. Imagine your kid does homework  and--you say you wrote a 12-page essay, and after you turn it in, you  say that 9 of the 12 pages actually have to be thrown away and  rewritten. That is what happened last night in the House of  Representatives. They tried to pass a 90-page fix to a 120-page bill  that was supposedly really urgent last week. 

  By the way, when you talk to the architects of that legislation in  private, when the cameras aren't rolling, and you ask them hard  questions about how their policy actually works, everyone starts  pointing at everyone else,  and a lot of people admit that the bill might actually accelerate  layoffs from small businesses. Think about that. 

  The reason this first bill--if it ends up remaining independent  rather than being bundled with the other ideas that are coming down the  road in the form of industry-specific bailouts--this first bill, which  is supposed to slow the pace of layoffs from small business, when you  ask questions about it, the architects of the bill will admit to you in  private that it might actually accelerate the pace of layoffs from  small business. Nonetheless, despite admitting that today's version of  the Rube Goldberg policy might have the opposite of its intended  effect, the main answer you get is ``We have to go very, very fast.''  This is wildly irresponsible, what is happening here. 

  Once the first couple hundred billion dollars of money is gone, that  means there is less money left for the next round of stimulus and  action and recovery and relief that are required. But besides money, it  also means that there is less public trust left. There are gonna be  more rainy days ahead in the coming weeks and months, and there is not  a lot of grassroots American trust in the wisdom or the work ethic of  this institution. Simply screaming that we should go faster is not a  substitute for debating and advocating for the actual policy. 

  We have many politicians pretending right now that they know how to  centrally plan rifle-shot bailouts industry by industry. It is not  true, and even they don't believe it. This is a game of pretend: Hurry  up and look busy. If you are not sure what to do, just spend more of  the people's money, but do it faster. 

  That is not good policy. That is not good stewardship of our  responsibility. The Senate is supposed to exist to calm down the  passions that lead the House to move fast and write policy that is bad  enough that a 120-page bill requires 90 pages of technical fixes. The  Senate's actual job in our bicameral constitutional structure is to ask  hard questions of legislation just like this. 

  Here is the good news: We don't have to mindlessly go down this path  again. We can do better than this. We can affirm the policy goal that  we do need to help get resources to the people who need them, but we  can also make smarter, more responsible, less risky decisions right now  that will provide a lifeline to people in need but will also leave room  for further action in the future, hopefully, as we know more in the  coming days and weeks. 

  So here is an alternate idea: Instead of DC pretending it is  omnicompetent, let's admit that a complex situation like what is  actually happening in the small business environment in all 50 of our  States will actually require differentiated solutions. Let's be sure we  are accurately naming the problem here, because I am not talking now  about the public health issues, like speeding the development of a  coronavirus vaccine, where DC obviously needs to maintain a leading  role, but I am talking precisely about the economic problem of the next  90 days. 

  What is that economic problem? The question before us is, How do we  minimize the number of layoffs, and how do we minimize the number of  small business bankruptcies that are looming across our country? How do  we make sure that more families can keep putting bread on the table  rather than becoming long-term dependencies on the State? We should be  laser-focused on what the question is that we are actually debating in  this Chamber this week. That is the question. Over the next 90 days,  are there policy steps we can take to minimize the number of  bankruptcies and layoffs that are going to affect American families so  painfully? 

  Here are some needed truths: The feds don't know the precise answer  because there isn't a single precise answer. The answers--plural--are  going to vary across our continent-sized Nation of 325 million souls.  If we pretend that we have a one-size-fits-all solution for this  problem or if we pretend that DC can be fair, going industry by  industry with rifle-targeted bailouts, we are going to screw up badly.  The lobbyists are going to dominate the day, not the public interests. 

  Again, I am open to spending in this moment, but that is not an  excuse for failing to spend well. We need to spend the people's money  well, we need to steward our callings with humility, and we need to  spend much better than this current House bill does. 

  Let's take the money that is being proposed and let's direct more  than half of it to our Governors so they may distribute it to families  and small businesses. 

  I trust Pete Ricketts, who is my Governor. I trust Pete Ricketts a  heck of a lot more than I trust Nancy Pelosi. Part of it is that Pete  and I have more aligned political philosophies, but that is not really  the point. The real reason I trust Pete Ricketts at this moment is the  same reason why Senator Feinstein would trust Gavin Newsom at the  moment, and that is because my Governor is on the ground with his 1.9  million people. He is not in DC looking across a 325-million-person  nation as if our problems are undifferentiated and as if the solutions  can be one-size-fits-all. That is not going to work. That is going to  waste the vast majority of the people's resources. We have 50 different  States with 50 different circumstances and needs. Californians have  needs that Nebraskans don't in this moment and vice versa. We can get  money to the Governors quickly, and they can distribute it in ways that  will best help their people. 

  The House's one-size-fits-all approach, this nationalized leave  policy in this first bundled bill, is going to cause a lot of people to  fall through the cracks. Why is it that different industries and  different-sized firms are being treated so radically different? It is  because of who was last in the Speaker's office lobbying about the bill  as they cobbled together the first 120 pages that needed 90 pages of  corrections. 

  The Rube Goldberg bill is going to create a handful of political  winners, but it is going to create a whole lot more economic losers. 

  Parts of these relief packages will need to come from DC in targeted  ways; I admit that. Part of this is going to need to come from DC, but  the idea that all of it can or that all of it should is arrogant. It is  wrong, and it will be ineffective. 

  Our Governors know their States and their people. Our Governors know  how to build public-private partnerships. Congress doesn't. Our  Governors know so much better than we do what their workforce needs  were before the coronavirus struck and what their workforce needs are  going to be in late Q3 or in Q4 when, hopefully, the economy is humming  again. Simply put, our Governors know how to target this money much  more efficiently than we do so that much more of that money will make  its way to Main Street. 

  Lots of Governors have led well in the past 3 weeks. I mentioned my  Governor, Pete Ricketts, and how his strong leadership has been laying  the groundwork to help shield our State from some of the worst ravages  of this virus. Likewise, I would recognize Governor DeWine from Ohio,  who is showing strong leadership on what it looks like to put facts  front and center. 

  What we need right now at the State, at the local, and at the Federal  levels is not just any action. We need responsible, effective,  defensible action. This is not a time for Washington to go on an  ``anything goes'' spending spree. It is not an opportunity for  Washington's connected insiders to exploit personal relationships to  put their pet projects first on things that they wouldn't have been  able to get passed if it weren't a time of crisis. We don't have to go  down that path. 

  Instead, we can more efficiently and more wisely spend the people's  resources. We can give our States and our Governors the lead in making  sure that the majority of the money and the majority of the resources  get where they are most needed. We can help families and businesses  keep afloat during this storm by admitting that 50 laboratories of  democracy are going to be more effective than a rifle shot approach  from Washington. We can create room for further action, but we can also  acknowledge that the particular needs are going to evolve in the coming  weeks. 

  We need less instant certainty and more humility in this building. We  should not pretend that the only government is the Federal Government.  Congress should eat more humble pie. There is a reason why even the  least popular Governor in America is more popular than almost everyone  who works in this Chamber. There is a reason for that, and the main  reason is  that while Members of Congress spend lots of our time playing pundit,  sadly, Governors actually lead. They manage budgets; they make  decisions; they lead departments; and they engage their community in  the actual private sector, not just hire lobbyists who work for the  private sector. They are physically on the ground with the people they  serve. That means they know a thing or two about the businesses in  their community. It means they know a thing or two about the industries  that are rising and falling in their cities and in their rural areas.  They have a kind of decentralized knowledge about this crisis and what  is needed at this moment that people in Washington, DC, lack. 

  Cable news is focused on Wall Street, but here is the deal: Main  Street is going to be the place where lots of the pain is ultimately  shouldered from this crisis, and when Wall Street needs something, Wall  Street hires K Street, and Congress is told by K Street what they want,  and that is usually what ends up in the bill. 

  When Main Street needs something, they drive to Lincoln; they drive  to Indianapolis and Nashville and Columbus and Albany and Sacramento;  and the granular understanding of their particular problems is almost  always more nuanced than is understood here. 

  That is why, as long as Congress is debating this spending this week,  I am going to be fighting to make sure that we give more than half of  all this money to our Governors to distribute. They know how to spend  this money better than this DC-centric House of Representatives bill.  That is the way we can actually get this done and help our people grit  through this time of unprecedented economic uncertainty.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT