Impeachment


   4, 2020]     Midlands Voices: Open Letter From Ben Sasse Presents His Take on                                Impeachment                               (By Ben Sasse)  

       Impeachment is serious. It's the ``Break Glass in Case of       Emergency'' provision of the Constitution. 

       I plan to vote against removing the president, and I write       to explain this decision to the Nebraskans on both sides who       have advocated so passionately. 

       An impeachment trial requires senators to carry out two       responsibilities: We're jurors sworn to ``do impartial       justice.'' We're also elected officeholders responsible for       promoting the civic welfare of the country. We must consider       both the facts before us, and the long-term effects of the       verdict rendered. I believe removal is the wrong decision. 

       Let's start with the facts of the case. It's clear that the       president had mixed motives in his decision to temporarily       withhold military aid from Ukraine. The line between personal       and public was not firmly safeguarded. But it is important to       understand, whether one agrees with him or not, three things       President Trump believes: 

       He believes foreign aid is almost always a bad deal for       America. I don't believe this, but he has maintained this       position consistently since the 1980s. 

       He believes the American people need to know the 2016       election was legitimate, and he believes it's dangerous if       they worry Russia picked America's president. About this,       he's right. 

       He believes the Crowdstrike theory of 2016, that Ukraine       conducted significant meddling in our election. I don't       believe this theory, but the president has heard it       repeatedly from people he trusts, chiefly Rudy Giuliani, and       he believes it. 

       These beliefs have consequences. When the president spoke       to Ukraine's president Zelensky in July 2019, he seems to       have believed he was doing something that was simultaneously       good for America, and good for himself politically--namely,       reinforcing the legitimacy of his 2016 victory. It is worth       remembering that that phone call occurred just days after       Robert Mueller's two-year investigation into the 2016       election concluded that ``the investigation did not establish       that members of the Trump Campaign conspired or coordinated       with the Russian government in its election interference       activities.'' 

       This is not a blanket excuse, of course. Some of the       president's lawyers have admitted that the way the       administration conducted policymaking toward Ukraine was       wrong. I agree. The call with Zelensky was certainly not       ``perfect,'' and the president's defense was made weaker by       staking out that unrepentant position. 

       Moreover, Giuliani's off-the-books foreign policy-making is       unacceptable, and his role in walking the president into this       airplane propeller is underappreciated: His Crowdstrike       theory was a bonkers attempt not only to validate Trump's       2016 election, and to flip the media's narrative of Russian       interference, but also to embarrass a possible opponent. One       certainty from this episode is that America's Mayor shouldn't       be any president's lawyer. It's time for the president and       adults on his team to usher Rudy off the stage--and to ensure       that we do not normalize rogue foreign policy conducted by       political operatives with murky financial interests. 

       There is no need to hear from any 18th impeachment witness,       beyond the 17 whose testimony the Senate reviewed, to confirm       facts we already know. Even if one concedes that John       Bolton's entire testimony would support Adam Schiff's       argument, this doesn't add to the reality already       established: The aid delay was wrong. 

       But in the end, the president wasn't seduced by the most       malign voices; his honest advisers made sure Ukraine got the       aid the law required. And importantly, this happened three       weeks before the legal deadline. To repeat: The president's       official staff repeatedly prevailed upon him, Ukraine       ultimately got the money, and no political investigation was       initiated or announced. 

       You don't remove a president for initially listening to bad       advisors but eventually taking counsel from better advisors--      which is precisely what happened here. 

       There is another prudential question, though, beyond the       facts of the case: What is the right thing for the long-term       civic health of our country? Will America be more stable in       2030 if the Senate--nine months from Election Day 2020--      removes the president? 

       In our Constitution's 232 years, no president has ever been       removed from office by the Senate. Today's debate comes at a       time when our institutions of self-government are suffering a       profound crisis of legitimacy, on both sides of the aisle.       This is not a new crisis since 2016; its sources run much       deeper and longer. 

       We need to shore up trust. A reckless removal would do the       opposite, setting the nation on fire. Half of the citizenry--      tens of millions who intended to elect a disruptive       outsider--would conclude that D.C. insiders overruled their       vote, overturned an election and struck their preferred       candidate from the ballot. 

       This one-party removal attempt leaves America more bitterly       divided. It makes it more likely that impeachment, intended       as a tool of last resort for the most serious presidential       crimes, becomes just another bludgeon in the bag of tricks       for the party out of power. And more Americans will conclude       that constitutional self-government today is nothing more       than partisan bloodsport. 

       We must do better. Our kids deserve better. Most of the       restoration and healing will happen far from Washington, of       course. But this week, senators have an important role: Get       out of the way, and allow the American people to render their       verdict on election day.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SASSE. Thank you. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT