MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, my chairman on the Finance Committee,  Chairman Grassley, who just left the floor, called me a scholar, and I  think he meant it as a compliment, but it doesn't feel like that today. 

  It actually feels like the fact that I have been reading this this  afternoon is a sign of the fact that this institution is broken in  significant ways, and there are not a lot of productive things  happening outside a group of four people who are renegotiating a car  deal again and again and again and again. 

  I did spend a good chunk of my afternoon reading these 1,119 pages.  You might wonder what this is. This is Nancy Pelosi's last-minute  additional Christmas wish list of progressive items that she wants  added to the coronavirus relief bill that has been being negotiated  here over the course of the last 96 or so hours. 

  I wanted to read this because I think we owe it to our constituents  to know what is in bills before people pass them. And I want to say, in  full disclosure, the wish list keeps growing so rapidly and radically  that this thing could be like 50 percent obsolete since 3 or 4 hours  ago when I started digging into it. There may be another bill that is  another 1,200 pages thick. 

  But this is the one that I have been reading today, and the Speaker  has obviously decided that she doesn't want to waste any crisis. 

  The American people face two unprecedented emergencies. We face a  public health emergency that is genuinely disastrous, and we face a  consequent resultant economic emergency that puts at risk lots and lots  of families' livelihoods, lots of dinner tables around the country. 

  There are 5,997,000 firms in the United States--so just a hair shy of  6 million firms in the United States. And lots and lots and lots of  those--the overwhelming majority of firms--and 47 percent of all  employment are small businesses in America. These are firms of 500 or  fewer employees. These are family businesses. These are corner stores.  Lots and lots and lots of these people live on an average--their  businesses live on an average--of 16 days of cash. 

  So when the country is shut down in the midst of something like the  coronavirus crisis, there are lots of businesses that have only about 2  weeks before they may cease to exist and just go poof or go down some  other pathway that leads them to become dependencies of the State. 

  So we have two massive crises in this country--one public health and  one economic. And this place often lies and pretends that there is some  piece of legislation that can solve every problem on Earth. That isn't  true, but in this case, both of these emergencies need lots and lots of  help and bandaids and salve and lifelines, life preservers from this  institution, and that is why so many people around here have been  working all night overnight 3 or 4 days in a row. 

  A number of us have been in this Chamber until midnight or 1 a.m.  multiple nights. I am a 4 a.m. wake-up guy, so I am usually in bed by 9  p.m. When I am here at midnight or 1 a.m., it is well past a period of  coherence. So when we are working around the clock, it is because there  is an emergency. 

  Lots and lots and lots of stuff in this 1,119-page additional bid  from Nancy Pelosi have nothing to do with the coronavirus emergency. 

  So I want to take us through some of what is in this piece of  legislation, but I am going to pull up for a minute as I recognize that  the majority leader, who is at the center of this negotiation, has  entered the Chamber. So I am going to yield to him and let him make  whatever updates he wants to give us in this Chamber, and then I will  return to this piece of legislation after the majority leader. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I want to be clear. This negotiation has  been messy. There is lots and lots in this bill that I don't like.  There is lots in this bill that is also critically important and urgent  for the American people. 

  There are a bunch of things in here that I think stink. I don't like  firm-specific money in legislation. So I don't like much of the  airlines section of this bill. The airlines didn't do anything wrong at  this moment when all their travelers fall off because of the pandemic  before them, but there are pieces of the way any legislation like this  is written, when it has specific firms in it, that I dislike and I  think should be done more effectively over time. But this is following  a model of how these portions of legislation have been written around  here in the past. 

  I don't like the direct payments that Washington is going to try to  renew long after the American people have defeated the coronavirus.  There is a lot in this legislation that I don't like. 

  But there are things we should all be applauding. This legislation  tries to turbocharge vaccine development. We need what our friend, the  Senator from Montana, called the Manhattan Project for the vaccine  accelerator. We need to go lots faster figuring out how to remove  barriers to enable companies at this time that seek to be effective  over efficient in ways that pluralize lots and lots of pharmaceutical  firms competing all at once and taking three or four steps of the  vaccine development process and trying to run them in parallel  instead of in sequence, because the American people and the world need  this vaccine. There are things to be proud of in that part of the  legislation. 

  I like the fact that this legislation--not the Pelosi legislation,  but the composite compromise bill that the Senate has been working on  over the last four days--tries to help small businesses stay alive  during this period of zero revenue with well-structured loans. I think  that Senators Rubio and Collins and their two Democratic colleagues on  the other side of the aisle have done a really good job. It is a crazy,  eye-popping pricetag at about $350 billion, this small business loan  program, but it is a necessity at this moment, and it is legislation  that people should be proud of. 

  I like the fact that this bill works in the appropriations section-- not the whole bill, not the whole draft text, as I wish it would. But  in the appropriations section, it works hard to get more than 51  percent of the appropriations section of the money to Governors to  allow them to make differentiated spending decisions, which they can  make more effectively than we can make in Washington, DC, where we look  out across 325 million people in an undifferentiated way. Our Governors  are better at building public-private partnerships than the Congress  is. 

  In my State, Omaha and Lincoln have different economics than the  rural parts of the State, but Omaha and Lincoln are different than  Nashville and Memphis. And National and Memphis are different than L.A.  and Seattle. So this bill works hard to try to take a big chunk--a  majority of the appropriations section of the legislation--and drive it  back to Governors. 

  There are things that are good in this bill. There are things that I  think are weak and clunky in this bill, but it was negotiated in a  bipartisan way in good faith on topics and issues that were related to  the coronavirus emergency. It wasn't a Republican bill. It wasn't a  Democratic bill. It certainly isn't my favorite bill or piece of  legislation around here, but it was a good-faith, bipartisan attempt  that people were negotiating on all weekend. 

  But, instead of taking that legislation--urgent, necessary  legislation--and passing it quickly, Democrats have now decided to  allow Speaker Pelosi to block it through proxies here in the Senate so  she can rewrite the bill with a ton of crap that has absolutely nothing  to do with the public health emergency that we face at this moment. 

  So I have been reading the legislation this afternoon. We have  families suffering and small businesses that are closing literally by  the hour. We have doctors fighting to prevent their hospitals from  being oversurged and overwhelmed, and what is Speaker Pelosi trying to  do? She is trying to take hostages about her dream legislation--all  sorts of dream legislative provisions that have nothing to do with this  moment--and say: The American public can't get access to the public  health piece of legislation or the economic relief pieces of  legislation unless she gets hostages that are entirely unrelated to  this moment. 

  We are better than that. Democrats in the Senate are better than  that. Many of them are privately embarrassed about this. I don't  understand how they voted today to filibuster this bill for a second  time when in private many of them tell us: Well, this is just part of  the negotiation and our leaders want us to vote this way, but I am  really uncomfortable with it because I don't think we should be dealing  with unrelated issues.  

  I had multiple Democrats today tell me they don't think they should  be dealing with unrelated issues, things that are not about the health  and economic emergencies before the Nation. 

  Here is why we stopped. Here is why the bill that is before us,  again, is not my favorite piece of legislation--not Republicans, not  Democrats--but a bipartisan, good-faith piece of legislation. The  reason we are not voting on it is because 1,119 pages of new Nancy  Pelosi demands that we should consider. 

  I promise you that every Washington, DC, lobbyist right now has been  combing over these 1,200 pages this afternoon because they wonder what  goodies they can claim credit for or what goodies that are against  their sector they should go against. 

  We shouldn't be debating anything in an emergency moment like this  with another 1,119 pages being dropped in at the last minute with other  demands. So I decided to start digging through it. 

  Let me give you a few highlights--or low lights. Here is page 421,  line 22:  

       (1) MINIMUM STUDENT LOAN RELIEF AS A RESULT OF THE COVID-19       NATIONAL EMERGENCY.--Not later than 270 days after the last       day of the COVID-19 emergency period. . . .  

  Think about what this means. Not later than 270 days--that is 9  months after the emergency is over. Then the Secretary of Education has  to do all this new stuff. 

  Nobody who wants student debt loan forgiveness should pretend this is  about getting emergency cash into the economy for liquidity or  solvency, because the Nancy Pelosi demand about loan forgiveness says  here that this is for something 9 months after the emergency. 

  This is something that many Democrats want. As a former college  president, I actually think this is a bad idea, but there are  intellectually defensible reasons to argue for it. There are reasonable  cases to be made, but they have tried to make them in the past and not  been able to pass the legislation, and it has nothing to do with the  coronavirus.  

       Not later than 270 days after the last day of the COVID-19       emergency period, the Secretaries concerned shall jointly       carry out a program under which a qualified borrower, with       respect to the covered loans and private education of loans       of such qualified borrower, shall receive in accordance with       paragraph (3) an amount equal to the lesser of the following: 

       (A) The total amount of each covered loan and each private       education loan of the borrower; or 

       (B) $10,000.  

  So what this says is you can feel the Bern with a $10,000 public and  private loan cancellation project a year in the future, or depending on  how long this emergency goes, this emergency could be with us through a  trough in the late summer and another peak in the fall and winter. We  may be in the emergency for more than a year. So Speaker Pelosi says:  Well, the Cabinet officials in the executive branch shouldn't probably  be burdened with this now because it obviously has nothing to do with  the coronavirus, but in the future we want to bake into law a $10,000  loan forgiveness program that has nothing to do with coronavirus. 

  That is wrong. This institution has been bleeding public trust for a  long time. When we pass a $2 trillion piece of legislation in the  middle of an emergency, there are going to be lots of things wrong with  it. There are going to be lots of reasons why the public looks back and  says: Why aren't you all more competent? Why couldn't you have done  this better? Why wouldn't you have done that better? Boy, this feels  clunky. Why would these people be included in the direct payments, but  those people wouldn't? You have to earn $2,500, but we are using the  2018 tax returns to be able to determine whether or not you earned your  $2,500 to be able to qualify for the $1,200 per family, and it phases  out from 75 to $95,000? There are a lot of hard-policy, mechanical,  technical issues that need to be navigated, and some of them will be  imperfect. 

  And later, the public will say: Why did you do it this way instead of  this way? And those will be fair questions. We will have to defend the  members of the task forces who wrote that part of the legislation--a  bipartisan task force that worked on that piece of legislation all  weekend. 

  But what will be completely impossible is to tell the public: Well,  the reason we did the loan forgiveness program, which had nothing to do  with coronavirus, this way rather than that way was because--why?-- because it was a northbound train and people could load it with a whole  bunch of swampy stuff. 

  You may believe in loan forgiveness. Make the case and win an  argument for loan forgiveness. Don't do it on the backs of a national  emergency, when in Nebraska I have families calling me from Omaha where  spouses have just been put in new institutions in the last 2 or 3 weeks  because of declining dementia, because of Alzheimer's. And as soon as  they got put in an institution, that institution got put on a  quarantine lockdown, and a husband is only in his late sixties, but he  is losing his entire mind and memory. He doesn't  understand why he is there, and his wife and kids can't visit him  anymore, and he doesn't know what the heck is going on.  

  That is a genuine tragedy. That is not an occasion for Nancy Pelosi  to try to get a loan forgiveness program done that she couldn't get  done by regular legislation. It is wrong, and the Democrats in this  body, most of them, know it is wrong. None of them are going to come  down here and make an argument. None of the 47 Democrats in the Senate  are going to come to the floor of the Senate and say: You know what we  ought to do during this national emergency? We ought to do a student  loan forgiveness program right now. 

  Someone might mention it in a long list, implying that the program  may have to do with liquidity. But if you actually read what happens in  the legislation, there is no loan forgiveness until 270 days after the  coronavirus national emergency is over. 

  Page 570. Not even a coronavirus can put a pause on our culture wars.  Line 14:  

       The Congressional COVID-19 Aid Oversight Panel in       conjunction with SIGTARP--  

  I don't know what that acronym means--       shall collect diversity data from any corporation that       receives Federal aid related to COVID-19, and issue a report       that will be made publicly available no later than one year       after the disbursement of funds. In addition to any other       data, the report shall include the following: 

       (1) EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS.--The gender, race, and ethnic       identity (and to the extent possible, results disaggregated       by ethnic group) of [all] the corporation's employees, as       otherwise known or provided voluntarily for the total number       of employees (full- and part-time). . . .  

  I am just going to skip ahead a couple of paragraphs.  

       (3) PAY EQUITY.--A comparison of pay amongst racial and       ethnic minorities (and to the extent possible, results       disaggregated by ethnic group) as compared to their white       counterparts and a comparison of pay between men and women       for similar roles and assignments. 

       (4) CORPORATE BOARD DIVERSITY.--Corporate board demographic       data, including total number of board members, gender, race       and ethnic identity of board members. . . .  

  Et cetera, et cetera--I am skipping ahead here. 

  Page 572, the next page:  

       (e) DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION OFFICES.--Any corporation that       receives Federal aid related to COVID-19 must maintain       officials and budget dedicated to diversity and inclusion       initiatives for no less than 5 years after. . . .  

  Blah, blah, blah--none of this has anything to do with the  coronavirus. There are all sorts of real racial issues in America that  need to be addressed, but none of this has anything to do with the  coronavirus. If you want to argue for this legislation, argue for this  legislation once people in nursing homes in Nebraska aren't being  locked out of being able to visit their family members with Alzheimer's  and dementia. 

  Page 681, line 16:  

       ``SEC. 325. SAME DAY REGISTRATION. 

       ``(a) IN GENERAL.-- 

       ``(1) REGISTRATION.--Each State shall permit any eligible       individual on the day of a Federal election and on any day       when voting, including early voting, is permitted for a       Federal election . . . to register to vote in such election       at the polling place using a form that meets the requirements       under section 9(b) of the National Voter Registration Act of       1993 (or, if the individual is already registered to vote, to       revise any of the individual's registration information); and 

       ``(B) to cast a vote in such election. 

       ``(2) EXCEPTION.--The requirements under paragraph (1)       shall not apply to a State in which, under a State law in       effect continuously on or after the date of the enactment of       this section. . . .  

  You see, what this is about is same-day voter registration, because  November 3 is just 225 days away, and if there is anything the American  people are worried right now about, it is that they would like  Washington, DC, to take away the authority of 50 secretaries of State  and determine how you conduct local elections in America. 

  This has absolutely nothing to do with coronavirus--absolutely  nothing to do with coronavirus. This isn't a Republican v. Democratic  scream. This is nonsense. This is where 99 percent of the American  public, if they were in this Gallery, would be shaking their head and  rolling their eyes and saying: What? You guys are trying to decide that  the Federal Government should, for the first time in U.S. history,  change the way local elections are conducted by Secretaries of State in  America? By the way, there is no one in the Gallery for a reason-- because the Gallery is shut down because we are in the middle of a  pandemic. 

  So this probably isn't the time to be having a debate about whether  the Federal Government should micromanage the way our 50 States conduct  their elections. I think this is a bad idea. But if you want to argue  for this idea, let's do it as soon as the pandemic is over. Come and  actually make an argument. Quit trying to exploit the crisis. 

  Page 725--there is almost no section of American life for government  that can't be touched in an emergency if you want to play exploited  politics. 

  Line 12:  

       DIVISION N--U.S. POSTAL SERVICE PROVISIONS  

  Because, of course, in the middle of a pandemic, do you know what the  American people want? They want to have a labor fight about the Postal  Service.  

       SEC. 140001. ELIMINATION OF USPS DEBT; ADDITIONAL BORROWING       AUTHORITY. 

       (a) IN GENERAL.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law-- 

       (1) any outstanding debt of the United States Postal       Service owed to the Treasury pursuant to sections 2005 and       2011 of title 5, United States Code, on the date of the       enactment of this Act is hereby canceled; and 

       (2) after the date of the enactment of this Act, the United       States Postal Service is authorized to borrow money from the       Treasury in an amount not to exceed--  

  I have got to count all these numbers--  

       $15,000,000,000 to carry out the duties and       responsibilities of the Postal Service, including those under       title 39, United States Code, and the Secretary of the       Treasury shall lend up to such amount at the request of the       Postal Service. 

       (b) REPEAL OF FISCAL YEAR BORROWING LIMIT.--Section       2005(a)(1) of title 39, United States Code, is amended by       striking ``In any one fiscal year,'' and all that follows       through the period.  

  Please, Senate Democrats, you don't believe that this is good  governance. Somebody please come to the floor and defend why we are  doing a Postal Service bailout in the middle of an emergency. 

  I know that Bernie Sanders believes in Postal Service reform. I don't  agree with Senator Sanders on this, but he is actually pretty  thoughtful about it. He spent a lot of time thinking about how you  might bail out the Postal Service. So if Bernie Sanders wants to argue  for a Postal Service bailout, he should make that case. I haven't been  here all day, but I have presided a couple of hours. I haven't heard a  single Democrat come to the floor and argue for a Postal Service  bailout. 

  Somebody please come back to the floor and at least stand in the  light of day before the American people and say the stuff Nancy Pelosi  is voting for you think is a good idea to do in the middle of this  national health emergency. 

  Page 768, line 7:  

       (1) IN GENERAL.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, subject to the requirements of this subsection, the wage       rate in effect under section (a)(1) with respect to an       employee of an employer described in paragraph (2), or any       individual who provides labor or services for remuneration       for such employer, regardless of whether the individual is       classified as an independent contractor or otherwise by such       employer, shall be not less than $15.00 per hour.  

  So while businesses are struggling to make ends meet--and we are  seeing lots and lots of small businesses go bankrupt in all 50 States  in America today. Businesses are going bankrupt in America today in all  50 of the States that we represent. Speaker Pelosi wants to raise the  minimum wage to $15 an hour. 

  I used to be a professor. I am a business guy by background, but I  was a history professor for a long time, and when I would teach, I  taught the Socratic method when I taught a seminar. In a lecture class,  it is different, but in a seminar, if I had 12 students or I had 15  students in a class, I would regularly try to frame up a given weekly  seminar, and I would try to figure out how to map a debate where you  could get about half the people in the class on each side of a debate. 

  If it ended up that the debate was off-weighted and there was a  minority group and a majority group, I would tend to join the minority  group, regardless of what was the issue, and I would try to fight for  the minority position just to help spice up the debate and make it more  interesting.  

  I think a $15 minimum wage is really bad economics, but I have argued  for it many, many times in class because there are intellectually  coherent reasons to argue for it. I don't think it works. And if we  weren't dealing with the pandemic in King County, WA, one of the things  we might talk about in this body is how the $15 minimum wage has worked  out in Seattle. Their public was overwhelmingly in favor of it a couple  of years ago, and now there is a huge move against it because people  realized what a $15 minimum wage actually does. It accelerates the  marginalization and the capitalization and the layoffs of people making  between $9 and $14 an hour. That is what it actually does. It speeds  automation. 

  So I would love it if anybody who was a primary breadwinner in the  house was earning way more than $15 an hour. I would love that to be  reality in American life. But here are two facts you need to know. 

  Fact No. 1, last time I checked the data, 89 percent of everybody who  made the minimum wage in America wasn't a primary wage earner. They  were a high school kid; they were a college student getting their first  job; they were working part time while they were in school; or they  just graduated high school, and they hadn't figured out their long-term  path. Maybe they were in trade school, but they were working a minimum- wage job and still lived at mom and dad's house or maybe they were a  65-year-old aunt who lived with a family that the rest of the house was  self-sufficient, but her wages augmented the family's income. Eighty- nine percent of the people who make the minimum wage in America are not  the primary wage earner or breadwinner in their family, but of the 11  percent who are, the idea that you can just raise the minimum wage to  any amount--I mean, if you just think good intentions are sufficient,  then why $15? 

  For heaven's sake, $15 an hour on a 2,000-hour work year, 40 hours a  week times 50 weeks, that makes $30,000 year. It is really hard to get  by on $30,000 a year. If you think good intentions are enough, $15  isn't enough. Why not have a minimum wage of $25? Why not $30 an hour?  The reason is because it doesn't actually work. If you just raise the  minimum wage to a different level than the marginal contribution value  of that job, what happens is the firms either cease to exist or people  automate more rapidly.  

  There are reasonable arguments to be made--certainly there are  emotional and humanitarian arguments to be made--for wanting a $15  minimum wage. But wanting a $15 minimum wage is an argument you should  make. It is not something you do in the midst of a public health  emergency, and it is certainly not something you do in the midst of a  public health emergency where lots and lots of small businesses are  ceasing to exist because the $15 minimum wage will just drive more  people out of business. 

  So it would be better to have a 15-dollar-an-hour job than an 11- dollar-an-hour job, but it would be better to have an 11-dollar-an-hour  job than no job. So if you are going to debate a $15 minimum wage,  please do it in the light of day. What Speaker Pelosi is doing here is  wrong. 

  Page 803. This one goes on for a bunch of pages, so I will jump  across. Line 10:  

       SEC. 704. AIRLINE CARBON EMISSIONS OFFSETS AND GOALS. 

       (a) CARBON OFFSETTING PROGRAM-- 

       (1) IN GENERAL--Not later than 90 days after the enactment       of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation       Administration shall require each air carrier receiving       assistance under section 101, to fully offset the annual       carbon emissions of such air carriers for domestic flights       beginning in 2025 . . . 

       (1) IN GENERAL.--The Administrator of the Federal Aviation       Administration shall require each air carrier receiving       assistance under section 101 to-- 

       (A) make and achieve a binding commitment to reduce the       greenhouse gas emissions attributable to the domestic flights       of such air carrier in every calendar year, beginning with       2021, on a path consistent with a 25 percent reduction in the       aviation sector's emissions from 2005 levels by 2035, and a       50 percent reduction in the sector's emissions from 2005       level to apply by the year 2050.  

  This is like something out of the Green New Deal for the age of  COVID-19, but it is just the technocratic piece for airline emissions-- and here we are dealing with the part about airline emissions from the  year 2035 to the year 2050. 

  If you have been looking at the data this afternoon, one of things  that Scott Gottlieb has been talking a lot about today is we see that  the hospitalization rates and the case fatality rate for the 45- to 54- year-old hospital admissions, COVID-19 patients in the United States,  look a lot worse than we thought they were a week ago. There are some  things on the Italy curve that are scary and ugly. There are some  pieces of it where we might think there are a little bits of hopeful  signs that as we have a lot more positive tests--but we know we  simultaneously have community transmission problems but we also have a  lot more testing. If you get more positive tests, some of that is  because you have more positive confirmation of the disease, but some is  because you are doing more testing. There are some things that might be  mildly good news, but Gottlieb, who has been talking today--former FDA  Commissioner--has been talking about some really bad news, which as we  talked about, this disease is particularly bad for people over 60, but  there have been a lot of hopeful signs, besides our love of neighbor  obligations not to be transmitting the disease to our grandmas and to  our parents and to the elderly, among others, but it looks like among  45- to 54-year-olds, the death rate does look to be--we don't know, but  on some preliminary data, it looks to be between five-tenths and seven- tenths of 1 percent compared to flu at one-tenth of 1 percent across  the whole population. That would be a stunningly high case death rate  among the 45- to 54-year-olds. 

  Do you know what none of those people care about right now? They care  about it, but they don't think that we should be legislating on it  without any long debate. None of them are talking about airline  emissions between the years 2035 and 2050. Nancy Pelosi shouldn't be  talking about it either. 

  Page 911. I will stop soon. I see one of my colleagues waiting to  talk. Page 911, line 3:  

       SEC. 404. MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL RULES FOR MINIMUM FUNDING       STANDARDS FOR COMMUNITY NEWSPAPER PLANS.  

  Do you want to know what is going to stop the public health crisis?  We should talk about the business model of local newspapers right now  rather than get the American people the relief they need.  

       (a) AMENDMENT TO THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986.--      Subsection (m) of section 430 of the Internal Revenue Code of       1986, as added by the Setting Every Community Up for       Retirement Enhancement Act of 2019, is amended to read as       follows: 

       (m) SPECIAL RULES FOR COMMUNITY NEWSPAPER PLANS.-- 

       (1) IN GENERAL.--An eligible newspaper plan sponsor of a       plan under which no participant has had the participant's       accrued benefit increased (whether because of service or       compensation) after April 2, 2019, may elect to have the       alternative standards described in paragraph (4) apply to       such plan. 

       (2) ELIGIBLE NEWSPAPER PLAN SPONSOR.--The term `eligible       newspaper plan sponsor' here means--  

  And then there are like four or five different definitions of what an  eligible newspaper plan sponsor would mean. 

  If the American people wonder why Congress hasn't passed a  coronavirus emergency health and emergency economics relief plan, I  think it would be great if Speaker Pelosi went out and stood before a  gaggle of reporters before the cameras and started talking about the  newspaper sponsor alternative plan definition provisions of her bid in  this negotiation on page 911, subsection (b). 

  One more for now. On page 931:  

       TITLE V--REHABILITATION FOR MULTIEMPLOYER PENSIONS  

  Line 16:  

       (a) ESTABLISHMENT.--There is established in the Department       of Treasury an agency to be known as the ``Pension       Rehabilitation Administration''.  

  By the way, there is no such thing. This doesn't exist. It is being  created of whole cloth here. So in the middle of a national health  pandemic emergency, we are creating now bureaucracies to deal with  insolvent pensions.  

       (1) ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION.--There shall be a head of       the Pension Rehabilitation Administration a Director, who       shall be appointed by the President. 

       (2) TERM.--In General, the term of Director shall last 5       years.  

  I am going to stop. This is wrong. This ought not to be happening. It  is not being done in good faith. Basically,  none of this stuff is really going to be considered in any negotiation.  It is a guise and a rouse to try to move the goalpost. 

  When people play nine innings of a baseball game in a negotiation and  somebody decided to use a whole bunch of their pitchers, then the  decision was made, hey, let's add five more innings to the baseball  game--the American people are waiting for this relief act, and it has  gone on for another 36 hours here for no reason that is honorable and  sincere. There are a whole bunch of big and real debates that could be  had inside the four corners of the four, kind of five task forces that  helped write this piece of legislation. There are lots of reasonable  debates to be had inside that. Throwing in a laundry list of Christmas  list lighting is why this place bleeds public trust. 

  The Democratic whip in the House said it explicitly: ``A tremendous  opportunity exists [in this crisis] to restructure things here to fit  our vision.'' None of these things--none of these 1,119 pages are about  solving the crisis, none of the nine paragraphs that I decided to read,  beat the virus, none of these things keeps small business alive. 

  I get it. Expenses. Speaker Pelosi is a liberal progressive from San  Francisco. I am a conservative from Nebraska. We have a different  political philosophy. That is fine. It is completely reasonable for us  to debate politics and policy and ideology when we are not in the  middle of a crisis. 

  Speaker Pelosi could bring her liberal wish list to the House floor  for a vote any time she wants. Unlike most of us, she controls an  agenda, but she ought to have the decency to vote on her ideologically  driven wish list after this emergency legislation has been passed. 

  We are better than this. This is not the way to restore the public  trust. We should do better. 

  Thank you. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT