Women's Healthcare


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SASSE. Thank you, Senator Daines of Montana and Senator Ernst of  Iowa. I know Senator Braun is going to be here shortly. I want to speak  about both pieces of legislation we are going to be considering  tomorrow. Both of them are very important to distinguish. I know it has  been brought up a few times tonight, but just to be sure we are all on  the same page, Senator Graham's Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection  Act is a very important piece of legislation, and I think my Born-Alive  Abortion Survivor's Protection Act--both of them, which my colleagues  here have spoken on, are very important pieces of legislation. They are  important pieces of legislation, but they are distinct and have to be  clarified to the American people, via the press, on how they differ. 

  These two bills are different, but they are connected by a simple  question, which is, Will the Senate vote tomorrow to protect babies?  This is about as straightforward a question as you can possibly have.  Will the Senate vote tomorrow to protect babies? 

  Let's talk first about Senator Graham's legislation. Every mom and  dad knows what it is like to see your child hurt, to see somebody fall  down, maybe with something as minor as a scraped knee or a burnt hand  on the stove or a finger slammed in a car door or a bedroom door. You  know that experience of a deep breath that is going to be followed by  the piercing cry. Something drops in the pit of your stomach. Every  parent knows this feeling. You want to scoop them up. You want to grab  them. You want to hold them, and you want to take away the pain. You  would take Tenex for the pain, if you could, to protect your baby from  that pain. You want to make it stop, and you want them to know that  they are going to be okay. When your child hurts, you hurt, and it is  far worse to watch your child hurting than to feel the pain yourself.  

  So we have this gut feeling when it comes to pain. When we see  someone hurting, we know this is not the way the world is supposed to  be. Pain is not natural. This is not the order of things as it was  meant to be, and so our heart leaps at the sight of someone in pain-- not just a child, but especially when it is a child, a family member,  or a friend, or even a complete stranger. When you see somebody in  pain, we want to make it stop. Human beings are compassionate; that is,  we feel along with others. When they suffer, we suffer, and so we reach  out to protect. We want to give comfort. 

  Tomorrow, we have the opportunity to extend that reach of care and  comfort and protection. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act  would protect babies as early as 20 weeks into pregnancy--that is  halfway through--by inscribing in law our responsibility to protect  innocent babies in the womb from the pain that is inflicted by  abortion. 

  The responsibility that we have when a 2-year-old skins her knee is  also a responsibility that we have when a 20-week-old baby in the womb  is threatened. The science is clear: Modern medicine is allowing  surgeons to perform operations on in utero babies, and these intricate,  amazing--amazing--little operations available nowadays are saving the  lives of thousands of babies with what would have once been fatal  conditions. These surgeons frequently administer drugs to the baby,  just like they do to the mother. These doctors are treating two  patients--not just one--and they do everything in their power not just  to advance the health of both of the patients but to protect both of  the patients from pain. They want to be sure that both patients are  safe and comfortable and as well cared for as possible. 

  Science has shown us that these babies feel pain, and the Pain- Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is a simple recognition that,  although the baby in the womb might be mostly invisible to us, we are  not blind to her needs. We have a responsibility to spread that  umbrella of law over every vulnerable person, no matter how small. Size  doesn't determine dignity or worth. 

  The question before us tomorrow is, Will the U.S. Senate vote to  protect these babies? It is pretty simple. You are going to hear lots  of crazy commentary talking about other stuff than what we are actually  voting on tomorrow, but what we are voting on is, Should the U.S.  Senate vote to protect these babies? I plan to vote in favor of  compassion because I believe that being pro-mom and pro-baby and being  pro-science are all bundled up together. So tomorrow, we are going to  consider compassionate pro-science and pro-baby legislation, and I  implore my colleagues, all 100 of us, ought to be doing the same. 

  I also know that, although I am unapologetically pro-life, many of my  colleagues in this body are not. So tonight, I also want us to talk  about a different piece of legislation. It is motivated by that same  care and that same concern with having the U.S. Senate vote to protect  babies. It is actually a different piece of legislation than Senator  Graham's important pro-life anti-abortion piece of legislation. I want  to talk about this second piece of legislation. 

  Even if you are unwilling to vote to defend unborn babies, I hope  that my colleagues would at least consider joining with us in voting to  protect babies that have already been born. Senator Graham's  legislation is about protecting babies in utero. We have got a second  piece of legislation before us tomorrow that is about protecting babies  after they have already been born. 

  Will we acknowledge that a baby outside the womb should not be left  to die? That is what the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act  is actually about. One year ago tomorrow, the U.S. Senate, sadly,  shamefully, shrugged its shoulders at babies who had already been born  after botched abortions. A bipartisan majority in this body--let's be  clear--a bipartisan majority voted in favor of protecting these babies,  but we didn't have enough votes. We didn't have enough votes voting  with us in this Chamber to break the filibuster in favor of  infanticide. That is what happened a year ago tomorrow in this Chamber. 

  Today, there is nothing in our Federal law that criminalizes the  denial of care to a baby that has survived an abortion, so when a baby  lives through an abortion procedure and ends up born and is outside  mom, there is nothing in Federal law that criminalizes denying care to  those babies and allowing her or him to die, and we have to change  that. 

  This second bill tomorrow is not actually about abortion. It is not  about Roe v. Wade. It is about something different. It is about what  happens after an abortion that didn't succeed in terminating the baby's  life. When a baby survives and is lying on that table cold and naked  and alone, what does our society do? Are we a country that protects  babies that are alive--born outside the womb after having survived a  botched abortion--are we a country that says it is okay to just sit  back and allow that baby to die? That baby that is fighting for life,  is it okay for us to just let that baby die? It is a plain and simple  question, and we all know what the right answer is. There are hard  calls that we consider in this body sometimes. There are a lot of gray  issues. This isn't one of them. This isn't a hard call. 

  Since last year's vote, we have brought before this body testimony  from medical experts who have been involved in abortion procedures and  who have had in their hands 1-pound little babies that had survived  abortions. That was the purpose of the Senate Judiciary Committee's  hearing on this bill 2 weeks ago. In that, we heard testimony that made  clear why this bill is necessary, and it made clear that the other side  actually can't confront the arguments head on. That is what happened 2  weeks ago in the Senate Judiciary Committee. 

  We were looking at the text of this bill. We had in front of us  medical experts who had the experience with people who had babies who  had survived abortions, and they talked about what happened in their  clinics. Everybody who spoke against the Abortion Survivors Protection  Act didn't talk about the bill at all. They talked about all these  other things. Some of them aren't actually hard debates, but none of  them had anything to do with the legislation that we were actually  considering. That is because they couldn't actually defend opposing a  bill that the purpose is simply to prohibit infanticide.  

  That is why Planned Parenthood, NARAL, and the Big Abortion doctors'  lobby resorted to simple misinformation. That is all the hearing was by  those who were opposed to the legislation. They say that what we are  trying to do is prevent something that doesn't happen. That is not  true. That is a myth. There are 8 States where we have some reporting  information. We should have reporting information from all 50 States,  but in the 8 States that we have, we have information about the babies  that survive abortions and what happens to them. They wouldn't confront  those facts, so they just made these blanket statements that this  legislation deals with something that doesn't happen, but it does,  which is why we had a hearing and why we brought in experts. 

  Then the opponents of this legislation talked about completely  unrelated things. They said that there are no such things as abortion  survivors. We would like to introduce you to some of them. Perhaps they  should also consult the CDC's records. Of the several States I  mentioned, there were eight that reported data on survivors. 

  Or they should talk to the Abortion Survivors Network. They should  look into the eyes of spouses and friends and neighbors and coworkers  and parents who are abortion survivors, and they should try to tell  them that what we are doing is pointless or a waste. They can't do that  because their position is morally indefensible. 

  Who are the spouses and friends and neighbors who are not here today  because they did not receive lifesaving medical care in their first  moments of life? The terms of the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors  Protection Act are simple: A child born alive during a botched abortion  would be given the same level of care that is provided to any other  baby born at that same gestational stage. That is it. That is all the  second piece of legislation we are going to deal with tomorrow does. 

  It says, when a baby survives an abortion, that baby should get the  same level of medical care that is provided to any other baby at the  same stage of gestational development. That is all it does. It doesn't  create, as opponents charge, some mandate to prolong the suffering of a  dying child. It doesn't do anything like that. It simply says, if a  baby survives an abortion, it has to get the same level of medical care  that would be provided to any other baby at the same stage of  gestational care that had parents that wanted that baby. It doesn't  force the doctor to do anything that violates medical best practice. It  simply says that a baby who survives an abortion is a baby and should  be treated as such, as a baby, with care and compassion. 

  Do Senators in this Chamber believe their own campaign slogans? Our  colleague from Vermont, who is on the verge of becoming the standard- bearer for the Democratic Party in our country, has declared: ``The  mark of a great Nation is how it treats its most vulnerable people.'' 

  Senator Sanders is right. America is dedicated to the proposition  that all men and women, all boys and girls, are created equal--even the  littlest ones, even if they happen to come into the world in the most  horrific of circumstances and even if they are crippled or inconvenient  or unwanted. America recognizes the immeasurable dignity of every human  being, regardless of race or sex or creed or ability. If we are hemming  and hawing about whether it is okay to let children die of neglect, we  know we have lost part of our soul. 

  Tomorrow, we have a chance to recognize and secure the dignity of  some of the most vulnerable members of our society. We have a chance to  protect those babies who come into the world under the worst of  conditions, and we have the chance to extend to them the possibility of  life and of love. Tomorrow, we can speak up for the voiceless. We can  defend the defenseless. We can come to the aid of the innocent. 

  This is not about Roe. This is not about politics. It is about a  simple question: Will the U.S. Senate, tomorrow, stand for the  proposition that babies are babies and they deserve care? Will the  Senate vote tomorrow to protect babies? 

  I defer to my colleague from the State to the east, Iowa, Senator  Ernst. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT