Recognizing Faith McCrea, Gold Award


Mr. AMODEI of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues  to join me in congratulating Faith McCrea. Faith is a member of Girl  Scouts of the Sierra Nevada, Troop 1306, and has exemplified  extraordinary leadership, innovative problem-solving, and a  demonstrated commitment to making a lasting, positive impact, by  earning the most prestigious award in Girl Scouting, the Gold Award.

Gold Award Girl Scouts are recognized as trailblazers who are willing  to tackle the most pressing challenges facing their communities and the  world with measurable, sustainable, and far-reaching results. To earn  the Girl  Scout Gold Award, high school-age Girl Scouts must identify and  investigate an issue they care about, devise a plan, and then lead a  team of experts and community members to implement a project that  produces lasting change. Over the course of 1 to 2 years, Gold Award  Girl Scouts demonstrate significant initiative, commitment, and  leadership, distinguishing them from their peers. Through their  resourcefulness and perseverance, they embody the Girl Scout Law to  truly make the world a better place.

Faith McCrea created ``Emotions through Art,'' designed to help  students who experience anxiety and depression when dealing with the  pressures of school. Faith began by researching art therapy and how it  can help people who are dealing with negative emotions. Applying her  research on art therapy techniques, Faith's project helped students  express their negative emotions through art using colors and shapes.  Faith presented the color wheel to students and taught them how they  can use art to express and influence their emotions. She uploaded art  videos to YouTube for people to watch when they are feeling upset, and  she also passed out brochures that she designed with resources on how  to seek professional help if they need it.

On behalf of the 2nd Congressional District of Nevada,  congratulations to Faith McCrea for achieving the highest distinction  in Girl Scouts, the Gold Award. We thank Faith for her leadership and  for making such a positive, lasting change in our community.