Recognizing Joyce Reid-Coleman


Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the life of Joyce  Reid-Coleman, who passed away on December 15 after a courageous battle  with cancer.

Poochie, as she was affectionately known, was beloved by the  community. After overcoming many challenges in life, she decided to  channel all of her energy to giving back.

While employed at the Siemon Company, she spearheaded many annual  events and programs for employees, including the Haunted Cafe for the  children of employees, a Thanksgiving feast, and a Christmas  extravaganza.

Joyce created Big, Bold and Beautiful Productions to expand her  service work to the Waterbury community. As an entrepreneur, she opened  New York Handbags Plus Dresses in downtown Waterbury. Through her  organization, Joyce provided the means to send children to prom. She  worked closely with all of the high schools to select students to  receive services. These services included gowns, tuxedos, shoes,  haircuts, hairstyling, manicures, pedicures, all accessories, flowers,  pictures, and even transportation.

Her love for children inspired her to create The Back to School Kids  Day, an all-day event providing food, games, activities, and free  haircuts for all of the children.

Her love for her community was unprecedented. During the holiday  season, her organization would provide Thanksgiving dinner to the  homeless and those in need, toys for children, and blankets for the  sick and shut in. Even as she was in hospice, she hosted a large  Thanksgiving dinner this last Thanksgiving.

Joyce dedicated her life to God and was a faithful servant at Grace  Baptist Church in Waterbury, Connecticut. Her generous, giving, and  loving spirit made her a unique blessing to so many. Her work was  celebrated in the city of Waterbury and throughout the State of  Connecticut.

To say that her living spirit will be missed by all who knew her is  an understatement. I pray for her husband, Gene, and the family. Joyce  will surely be missed. May Poochie rest well. She has earned it.