Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700499/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. DELUZIO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York.

I support the bipartisan War Powers Resolution. We find ourselves,  once again, in a foolish regime change war, much like the one that my  generation was sent to serve in Iraq that cost thousands of lives and a  trillion-plus dollars.

I have heard lots of justifications on the other side for why this,  number one, isn't a war while I heard the gentleman from New York call  it a war. That is what it is. The Defense Secretary has called it a  war. That is what this is.

I have seen pointing to different authorities here and there, between  the laws, that might justify this.

Congress has not declared war. Congress has not provided a statutory  Authorization for Use of Military Force. The third condition of the War  Powers Resolution that could allow the President to do such a thing is  that the United States is under attack. We, of course, were not under  attack when the President started this war that we don't need to fight  today.

That is the War Powers Resolution. Those are the three bases that a  President can use force under the War Powers Resolution.

Let's not forget that the American people want life to be less of a  rip-off here at home. They want healthcare they can afford and housing.  I can go on and on.

What they don't want is Americans coming back in flag-draped caskets  and billions of dollars spent overseas.

Today I asked the Trump administration officials for the cost of this  war. They can't answer the question. Those are the basic things you  have to know before you send Americans to fight, Mr. Speaker.

We should support this resolution and put a stop to this now.