Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691217/stock-trading-ban-for-members-of-congress


Mr. DELUZIO. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the leadership from the  gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. Magaziner) and the gentleman from  Texas (Mr. Roy) for bringing us together tonight.

Mr. Speaker, imagine that, Democrats and Republicans in this Chamber,  in this town, wanting to do something about corruption. That is a good  thing. I hope the American people are paying attention.

I will tell you it is clear from conversations with my constituents  in western Pennsylvania, and I know from people all over this country,  they think our system is rigged: rigged against hardworking people,  rigged for giant corporations and the rich and the powerful. That kind  of corporate power doesn't just happen. It is enabled by pliable  politicians and by a Supreme Court that opens the floodgates to  unlimited super-PAC money that corrupts our elections.

We should fight that. If you want to fight corruption, let's start  with getting that unlimited corporate money out of our politics.

You have to have some credibility and this Chamber, this town, this  Congress, needs more credibility. One way to build that back is to  start with banning congressional stock trading. I think it is an easy  place to start. You talk to people in western Pennsylvania, you talk to  people all over this country who think it is ridiculous that folks in  power and elected office get rich off the inside and sensitive  information that we learn in our jobs serving the people, representing  the people who elect us.

No one should be using that information to enrich themselves, to get  rich off of public trust. I am proud to be here in a bipartisan  fashion, joining with Members of both parties who support this  commonsense, anticorruption idea.

Let's ban congressional stock trading. Wherever we see corruption, we  should be calling it out. We should be fighting it. We should take it  on. Our democracy turns on public trust and people having some faith in  their elected Representatives.

What we are railing against here, Members trading stock based on  information we learn, that erodes that public trust. Let's be smart.  Let's come together. Let's call out this corruption for what it is.

I again commend the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. Magaziner) and  the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy) for bringing us together.