Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I want to respond to the accusations  that were made. And I worded that carefully not to violate any rules. I  am going to do that. 

  I see kind of an active desperation that is creeping in on statements  and things that are said about other people. And right now, we are  experiencing some things that actually are a success. 

  I want to respond to some of the accusations that were made. First, I  have something else to do that is kind of an awkward thing to be doing  at this time because I am going to go back to talk about something that  happened not yesterday or this week but back in 1983. I think it is  important that we do this. About every 10 years I do this. And we are  going to be successful now because I have a commitment from the  President that he is going to stay hitched on an issue--a huge issue in  the past. 

  In 1983, not much was known about Iran's efforts to train and arm the  radical proxies and to kill Americans and to kill our partners and our  allies. People know now. In fact, only a few years earlier, Ayatollah  Khamenei led a violent revolution in Iran. Khamenei's regime introduced  himself to the world by taking American diplomats hostage for 444  days--444 days. We all remember when that happened. That was something  unprecedented. It was all tied into Khamenei. Of course, he used other  people. Nothing has changed since that time. 

  Nonetheless, for the next decade, until his death in 1989, Khamenei  was the ruthless face of an Iranian regime that applied a brutal  version of religious law, murdered innocent people, suppressed  religious and ethnic minorities, and supported radical Islamists. 

  He hated Western value, and he hated the freedoms that we enjoy.  Almost 4 years into his rule as Supreme Leader, October 23, 1983, 241  Americans, both U.S. marines and other service personnel serving a  peace mission in Beirut, were attacked at their barracks by a truck  that was carrying 2,000 pounds of explosives by terrorists who were  armed and trained by Iran. That was in 1983. Two hundred and forty-one  died. 

  These terrorists later became what we know as Hezbollah. That is the  first time they surfaced and were identified as they are today, as an  arm of Iran. Hezbollah struck. 

  In 2003, 20 years after the attack on our marines, the United States  District Court for the District of Columbia ruled in a civil suit  brought by the families of the victims--the 241 who were killed--that  Iran had used Hezbollah as a proxy to bomb the Marine barracks in  Beirut on that October day. 

  Not much has changed with Iran, unfortunately. It is the same way  they operate now. They don't play by the rules. They never have. They  are terrorists. They are worse than terrorists. They are the ones who  are training the terrorists. That became even more apparent when we  began to learn more about their ties to Islamist terror organizations  and how they use proxy organizations, with no true allegiance but on  behalf of a twisted interpretation of Islamic religious text, to murder  and then sneak back into the shadows. That is the way they operated,  and that is the way they operate today. 

  It happened under Ayatollah Khamenei, and it happens under the  current Supreme Leader as well. Nothing has really changed. A lot of  years have gone by. A lot of people have died. 

  As I speak here on the floor, Iran is providing weapons and cover for  the Houthi rebels, who are committing unthinkable atrocities in Yemen.  Iran has continued to support terrorist groups that threaten our  personnel in Iraq. It has repeatedly attacked our partners across the  region. What is even worse is Iran seeks a nuclear weapon capability,  and President Obama's Iran deal would have, ultimately, let it have  exactly what it wanted. 

  Fortunately, we now have a President who takes a strong stance  against Iran with the imposing of sanctions and the pulling out of the  flawed Iran nuclear deal that the previous administration put us in. 

  By the way, I had a joyful conversation for a half an hour yesterday  with Netanyahu, the Prime Minister of Israel. He was reminding me that  I was in Israel and in the Prime Minister's office at the very moment  that President Trump pulled out of the Iran deal, and I had never seen  him so jubilant. We just talked about that yesterday. 

  Go back now to October 23, 1983, when 241 Americans were killed by an  Iranian-backed suicide bomber. It was a terrible day in U.S. history,  and, in 2003, a U.S. court ruled that Iran was responsible. That suit  against Iran, brought by the victims' families--the families of the 241  who died--provided punitive and compensatory relief in the form of  Iranian assets. In 2007, the district court judge awarded just over  $2.5 billion to the families of those murdered in that atrocity. 

  Our work isn't done now. You would think that it would be, but it is  not because there is nearly $1.7 billion in laundered Iranian assets in  a Luxembourg bank named Clear Street, and we need to make sure that it  stays there. Yet I have this gnawing feeling that, once something is  over in Luxembourg or someplace like that, all of a sudden, you wake up  and find that Iran has $1.7 billion it is not entitled to in order to  spread terrorism throughout the world. 

  In last year's NDAA--now, the NDAA is the largest bill we do each  year. I chair the defense authorization. It is called the National  Defense Authorization Act. We pass it every year. We included language  that made those assets available to the victims' families, and the  President signed it. I talked to the President, and he is anxious to do  this. We have one obstacle that we have to get past, which is some  activity by the second circuit where it is now being played out. 

  President Trump has been a firm leader against the aggressive Iran,  and I certainly stand with him. That is why this is a clear opportunity  to continue President Trump's maximum pressure campaign against the  current Iranian regime so as to ensure these assets do not return to  Iran, where they would surely be used to help the proxy organization,  such as Hezbollah.  

  I trust our Department of Justice with this, and I am glad we have a  President who has made this a top priority--making sure the families of  those 241 victims who were killed in Beirut receive this money as  opposed to having the money go back.                                   Protests  

  Mr. President, in responding to a couple of things that were said a  few minutes ago, we all know this is a really trying time for our  Nation. I begin with the obvious, which is what happened to George  Floyd was a crime. It was a horrible crime, and it has caused a  groundswell of people joining together and standing against injustice  and hate, not just for George Floyd but for so many others. 

  Protests are meaningful and positive events--standing up for dignity  and respect for all people. Protesting is a cherished part of our  democratic society that is enshrined in the First Amendment. The rights  of peaceful protest should be supported and celebrated, period. We  understand that. Yet those protests are not the same as the dangerous,  destructive activity we have seen in many of our cities just in the  last couple of days. Emotions are high, and tensions are high, which is  understandable. We need law and order if we are going to move forward,  and I think every reasonable person agrees with that. 

  We are trying to have tough conversations about inequality, but we  are facing a lot of misinformation, especially when it comes to our  military. If we let this misinformation spread, it will just make  things worse. All of the people out there--I am talking about the  ``hate Trump'' people--are using this to try to lie to the American  people. So I would like to correct the record, and I hope every  American here understands and believes these words. This is very  important. Here is what is happening. 

  Right now, the National Guard has not been federalized for response.  Right now, Active-Duty troops have not been sent into any city,  including DC. I was here last night. I was visibly looking around and  making sure that this was not the case, and it was not. There were no  Active-Duty troops in spite of things you have heard to the contrary. 

  Right now, local and State law enforcement are being supported by the  National Guard but only when they are requested by their States. The  Department of Defense believes that, and by and large, they are doing a  fine job. I agree with that. Our military is prepared to step in if the  situation deteriorates dramatically and only if our President finds he  has to step in. To be crystal clear, the President hasn't done that  yet. 

  I ask my fellow Americans to slow down and understand what will  happen if and only if the President does so. It doesn't mean that our  streets will immediately be flooded with uniformed and armed troops.  There is a process that has to be followed just as it was in 1992 with  the LA riots, in 1998 after Hurricane Hugo, and at every other time  before that. 

  First, this is the process. What has to happen is the President must  issue a proclamation ordering any insurgents to disperse within a set  period of time. Now, that is really important because that is the  warning shot. He says this is going to happen, but only you can keep  this from happening. The President has to issue the proclamation  ordering any insurgents to disperse within a set period of time. It  will mean that our Nation's military and security leaders, including  our Commander in Chief--the President--will have determined that the  situation will have deteriorated in a way that local officials will not  have managed on their own. In virtually every case, local officials  have agreed with that. 

  We are not there now. We are not there at all, and I hope we don't  get there. This will only be as a last resort. If we do, I am confident  this decision will be made with the advice of the top civilian and  military officials who have all been confirmed with wide bipartisan  support and margins                            General Mark A. Milley  

  Mr. President, I would like to say a little something about simple  military relations. This is something I care a lot about as chairman of  the Senate Committee on Armed Services. In particular, I want to speak  about General Milley. 

  General Milley is the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In this  job, General Milley is the President's top military adviser. Don't  forget he doesn't have any command authority over the military forces.  This is important. This is not what you hear people talking about when  they misrepresent the situation. This is very important. He is there as  the adviser to the President of the United States, and he doesn't have  any command authority. There has been a lot of criticism about his  wearing his battle dress uniform--his BDU, as they call it--on Monday  when the President spoke. Here is another area in which I want to set  the record straight. 

  General Milley was getting ready to visit with troops around DC--I  know that. I was talking to him that day--who were also in their BDUs.  That was the dress uniform for their function at that time. Then he was  called to the White House. We all know why he was called to the White  House. He is the adviser to the President. I think everyone can agree  that we want that voice at the table in situations like this to provide  the best military advice, as is his statutory authority and  responsibility. 

  On Monday, after General Milley walked outside with the President, he  assessed the situation and immediately removed himself. Now, this isn't  just me talking. I know that he did because I was with him shortly  before that and also after that. So that was a fact. He also told me  that he intended to honor his oath and uphold the delicate balance  between civilians and the military. I fully believe him. He has always  done that in the past and always will do that. 

  The accusations against General Milley are especially troubling to me  because I know, from working with him, of his commitment to our Nation,  to the Constitution, and to the American people--of keeping them safe  and giving his best military advice. It is striking below the belt to  make these accusations and to try to scare the American people. It is  my duty as chairman of the Committee on Armed Services to have strong  oversight over this issue. We have oversight over it. If what they are  saying is true, we still have the oversight. 

  I assure you, right now, we are watching what our military is doing  and what it has always done, which is its duty within the law and  constitutional limits, and that is exactly what General Milley has done  and is doing right now. We are seeing a lot of finger-pointing and  blame going around. We owe it to ourselves and our neighbors to believe  the very best in each other, not assume the worse. We need to recognize  everyone's inherent value and dignity and treat each other with respect  and dignity as Christ calls us to do. Only then can we listen with both  of our ears and with our hearts. That is what I am asking the American  people to do. 

  Many of those in the protests are in a group that has been referred  to as antifa. Certainly, George Floyd's death was a tragedy and went  beyond unthinkable dimensions, but did any of them know who he was? I  suggest, no, they really didn't. So I would only say this: I think, in  answer to the accusations that were made, that I would quote only one  or two sentences out of a speech that our President made 2 days ago in  the Rose Garden. This is very self-explanatory and does explain the  situation in response to the accusations that have been made falsely  about him.  

       We cannot allow the righteous cries and peaceful protesters       to be drowned out by an angry mob. The biggest victims of the       rioting are peace-loving citizens in our poorest communities.       And as their President, I will fight to keep them safe. I       will fight to protect you. I am your President of law and       order and an ally of all peaceful protesters.  

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT