Executive Calendar




BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, by now, I think people are pretty much  aware of something that happened about 2 weeks ago--an FCC approval of  an application that was very, very significant. Yet not many people  knew that it was going on. 

  I think by now it shouldn't be a surprise to anyone that I oppose  this decision by the Federal Communications Commission to approve an  application by Ligado Networks. Ligado's plan would use Federal  spectrum in a way that will interfere with GPS and satellite  communications, and despite near-unanimous objection from the rest of  the Federal Government, the Federal Communications Commission has just  said OK. 

  I said ``near-unanimous.'' It was nearly unanimous. A week before the  decision was made by the FCC, they sent a letter outlining all of the  reasons that everyone should be opposed to the application made by  Ligado to the FCC. Their statement was that Ligado's proposal is not  feasible, affordable, or technically executable. It goes on to say how  destructive this would be, how the whole country uses this GPS, and how  this would alter the GPS system so that it no longer could be used with  predictability. 

  When I say ``nearly everyone,'' it is not ``nearly''; it is everyone  objected to it. I have never seen anything like this happen, to have  something approved that was objected to by all of government. This  letter objecting to this was signed by the Department of the Army, the  Department of the Navy, the Department of Commerce, NASA, the  Department of the Interior, the Department of Justice, the Department  of Homeland Security, the Department of Energy, the National Science  Foundation, the Department of Transportation, the U.S. Coast Guard, and  the Federal Aviation Administration. That is everybody. I have never  seen anything that has ever had that unanimity in being objected to.  For that reason, it was never approved until April 20 by the Federal  Communications Commission. 

  The GPS and satellite communication functions support everything:  equipment that our troops use in the field, navigation for first  responders, airlines--that is how airplanes keep from running into each  other; they use GPS--cell phones, and ATMs. The list goes on and on. 

  Simply put, the FCC is jeopardizing GPS signals that Americans rely  on every day. I chair the Senate Armed Services Committee. When you are  conducting warfare, you are using GPS. You use GPS every day. Simply  put, the FCC is jeopardizing GPS signals that we rely on for both our  national and economic security for the benefit of just one company and  its hedge fund investors. 

  Ligado may be a new name, but the problem goes back a decade, when  LightSquared was created in a hedge fund deal worth $5.3 billion. The  investors put billions on the table, and the only way to get a return  was to repurpose LightSquared's satellite spectrum for the terrestrial  cell phone network 

  In 2011, when LightSquared asked the FCC for permission to do just  that, GPS and satellite communication users strongly objected due to  the interference with the GPS signal. That is the problem. The signal  is in the same area that purchase took place by a company at that time  named LightSquared. Federal agencies like the Department of Defense,  the Department of Transportation, and the National Telecommunications  and Information Administration echoed these concerns. 

  In 2012, after it was clear that there was no way to mitigate the GPS  interference in their proposal, LightSquared declared bankruptcy, so it  was gone. 

  Years later, LightSquared got enough new Wall Street hedge fund money  to emerge from bankruptcy and be renamed ``Ligado'' and again pushed  for repurpose of the satellite spectrum for its network. That is  exactly the thing that the predecessor company tried to do for a long  period of time, and they were denied, and they were justly denied. They  shouldn't have been able to do that. 

  There was never any idea that an application by an operation like  this would be acceptable. After extensive testing and analysis, experts  at nine Federal agencies have unanimously concluded that Ligado's  proposal, even with updates, will still interfere with GPS signals and  satellite communications. That is the one I just read. They were  unanimous in doing this. Of course, we read the names of the agencies  that were involved. This is something everyone agreed with. We can't  find anyone who disagreed with it except Ligado itself--the ones who  would end up with a lot of billions of dollars, and I am not sure where  it would go. 

  They rely on GPS for navigation, logistics, and precision-guided  missiles in training and on the battlefield. But at the end of the day,  this is about much more than risking our military  readiness and capabilities. Ligado's proposal will hurt the American  economy. Our farmers rely on GPS to harvest their crops. Our truckers  and our airlines rely on GPS to move supplies and people safely. Our  maritime industry depends on GPS to place channel markings. Weather  forecasting relies on satellite communications to save lives and  property when tornadoes and hurricanes and floods strike our  communities. I am from Oklahoma. We know what hurricanes are. In fact,  we were in our basement two times in 1 day about a month ago with those  threats. That is how you determine where they are and how serious they  are, and it saves lives. 

  The FCC--Federal Communications Commission--has put all of this at  risk by approving Ligado's application. There wasn't a lot of  opposition out there talking about it because they had not been  approved for a number of years. It has never been approved before. And  all of that was now at risk, just as of a week ago. 

  This is a complex issue. Here is an easy way to think about how  Ligado's network would interfere with our GPS signals. ``Once Ligado  turns its service on, it will be like trying to hear leaves rustling  over the roar of 100 jet engines.'' This is according to Under  Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, Dr. Michael Griffin,  an expert in this field. 

  The FCC has included certain mitigation measures in approving  Ligado's application, but these are fundamentally flawed in every  practical sense. They would make Ligado the fox guarding the henhouse.  How can Ligado be impartial in deciding whether its own system is  causing interference? It is not going to happen, and everybody knows  that. Ultimately, the taxpayer and consumer will be left to pay to fix  the interference. Ultimately, the people of America will end up paying  for this. 

  What I am most upset about is the failure in the process behind this  decision. A few people made a hasty decision over the weekend. Keep in  mind, it was in the middle of the national crisis. We have a national  crisis. Everybody knows that is going on right now. Everyone is having  to live differently than they have ever lived before, so people are  concentrating on that. No one was looking. 

  It was against the judgment of a unanimous conclusion by the  Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee, which included nine Federal  agencies, as well as private sector stakeholders dependent on GPS and  satellite communications. 

  As far as I can tell, this is the first time that the FCC made a  decision over the weekend, completely discounting the universal  opposition to the proposal. A week before this decision was made, it  was universal. They decided--and this is a group in the hearing that we  had--we had really talented people there, scientists, making all of the  decisions. They talked about how the decision was made over a weekend,  during a national crisis we were dealing with, and on a Sunday. I went  back and checked, and we could not find any time a decision that was  made by the FCC on a Sunday or on a weekend. They don't do that on  weekends.  

  On top of that, this decision was opposed by everybody in a letter  they received a week before. 

  Just look in the Wall Street Journal. Mark Esper is the Secretary of  Defense. Mark Esper had an article there that said.  

       The FCC has set conditions to ensure GPS won't be affected.       Don't be fooled.  

  It would be affected.  

       Independent testing and analysis conducted by nine federal       departments and agencies show that allowing the Ligado's       proposed system--including its proposed modifications--to       operate in close proximity to the GPS spectrum would cause       harmful interference to millions of GPS receivers across the       United States.  

  Actually, the band that is used for GPS is called the L band. It gets  a little bit complicated. The area that people are concerned about, and  that the Ligado is trying to say they are correcting, was an area that  was in a different band all together. I think it was the C band and the  S band. 

  I think this is the first time a decision has ever been made--even  discounting the universal opposition who oppose it--in response to this  unprecedented and unwise decision. I am leading a letter to the FCC  outlining critical national security concerns and urging the FCC to  rescind the order. 

        Re Ligado Networks LLC, License Modification Applications (as           amended), IBFS File Nos. SAT-MOD-20151231-00090, SAT-MOD-          20151231-00091, and SESMOD20151231-00981; SES-AMD-          20180531-00856, SAT-AMD-20180531-00044, SAT-AMD-20180531-          00045 (IB Docket Nos. 11-109 and 12-340).       Hon. Ajit Pai,      Chairman, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Chairman Pai: On behalf of the executive branch, the       National Telecommunications and Information Administration       (NTIA) submits the enclosed supplemental materials for       consideration by the Federal Communications Commission       (Commission) regarding the above-referenced license       modification applications of Ligado Networks (Ligado), as       amended. This letter and its enclosures are provided for       inclusion in the record of the application proceedings,       supplementing my letter to you dated December 6, 2019, in       which I indicated that NTIA was ``unable to recommend the       Commission's approval of the Ligado applications.'' 

       I enclose a letter from the Deputy Secretary of Defense to       the Secretary of Commerce dated March 24, 2020. In the       letter, the Deputy Secretary, citing 10 USC Sec. 2281, states       that ``approval of the Ligado application would adversely       affect the military potential of GPS and the Department of       Defense is strongly opposed.'' ``After reviewing the existing       public record of the Ligado proceeding,'' he continues, ``I       believe the information Air Force has submitted to the IRAC       would be of significant value to the FCC in making its       decision regarding Ligado's license modification application.       I therefore request that you have NTIA communicate this       additional information to the FCC expeditiously to be put on       the public record.'' I received a similar and consistent       letter from senior officials of the Department of Defense on       March 12, 2020. 

       The letters refer to the enclosed memorandum from the Air       Force--joined by several executive branch departments and       agencies--providing supplemental information to the       Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC) that detailed       numerous expected impacts Ligado's proposed license       modifications would cause. The memorandum concluded that       Ligado's modifications ``would cause unacceptable operational       impacts . . . and adversely affect the military potential of       GPS,'' and further noted that ``Ligado's proposed       accommodations of identifying and then repairing or replacing       potentially-impacted legacy equipment is not feasible,       affordable or technically executable.'' 

       NTIA notes that in a 2011 Order and Authorization, the       Commission's International Bureau declared that its processes       for authorizing then-LightSquared to commence commercial       operations on its MSS L-band frequencies would be complete       only ``once the Commission, after consultation with NTIA,       concludes that the harmful interference concerns have been       resolved.'' We believe the Commission cannot reasonably reach       such a conclusion. 

       Should you have any questions about this submission, please       do not hesitate to contact me.            Sincerely,                                             Douglas W. Kinkoph,                                            Associate Administrator, 

       Performing the Delegated Duties of the Assistant Secretary       for Communications and Information.                                   ____                                      Deputy Secretary of Defense,                                     Washington, DC, March 24, 2020.      Hon. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.,      Secretary of Commerce,      Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Secretary: On December 6, 2019, the Acting       Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and       Information and Administrator of the National       Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) sent       a letter, on behalf of the Executive Branch, to the Chairman       of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) recommending       rejection of the license modification request of Ligado       Networks. The Air Force, on behalf of DoD and endorsed by the       interagency, has provided additional supplemental information       to the Chairman of the Interdepartment Radio Advisory       Committee (IRAC) on expected national security and defense       impacts to Global Positioning System (GPS) operations if the       proposed license modification request were granted. I request       this additional information be transmitted by NTIA to the FCC       for inclusion in the public record of the Ligado proceeding       (FCC International Bureau Docket Numbers 11-109 and 12-340). 

       Per 10 U.S.C. 2281, the Secretary of Defense ``may not       agree to any restriction on the GPS proposed by the head of a       department or agency of the United States outside DoD that       would adversely affect the military potential of GPS.''       Approval of the Ligado application would adversely affect the       military       potential of GPS and the Department of Defense is strongly       opposed. After reviewing the existing public record of the       Ligado proceeding, I believe the information Air Force has       submitted to the IRAC would be of significant value to the       FCC in making its decision regarding Ligado's license       modification application. I therefore request that you have       NTIA communicate this additional information to the FCC       expeditiously to be put on the public record. 

       I have consulted with my Chief Technical Officer and Chief       Information Officer and both agree. 

       Your personal attention to this matter would be greatly       appreciated.            Sincerely,      David L. Norquist.                                   ____                               Office of the Secretary of Defense,                                     Washington, DC, March 12, 2020.      Douglas W. Kinkoph,      Associate Administrator, Office of Telecommunications and           Information Applications, Performing the non-exclusive           functions and duties of the Assistant Secretary of           Commerce for Communications and Information, National           Telecommunications and Information Administration, U.S.           Department of Commerce, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Kinkoph: On December 6, 2019, you sent a letter on       behalf of the Executive Branch, to the Chairman of the       Federal Communications Commission (FCC) stating that the       National Telecommunications and Information Administration       (NTIA) is unable to recommend the Commission's approval of       the Ligado applications. The Air Force, the Executive Agent       for the Department of Defense (DoD) for the Global       Positioning System (GPS) and DoD's member of the       Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC), has provided       additional information to the Chair of the IRAC, endorsed by       other interested agencies on expected national security and       defense impacts to GPS operations if the proposed Ligado       license modification request is granted by the FCC. The       Department requests this additional information be       transmitted to the FCC for inclusion into the public record       of the Ligado proceeding (FCC International Bureau Docket       Numbers 11-109 and 12-340). 

       Consistent with the authority delegated by the Secretary of       Defense in DoD Directive 4650.05, ``Positioning, Navigation,       and Timing (PNT)'', the undersigned agree with the enclosed       memorandum for the IRAC Chair. Specifically, FCC approval of       Ligado's license modification would cause unacceptable       operational impacts and adversely affect the military       potential of GPS. The Secretary of Defense, pursuant to 10       USC Sec. 2281, ``may not agree to any restriction on the GPS       System proposed by the head of a department or agency of the       United States outside DoD that would adversely affect the       military potential of GPS''. After review of the public       record of the Ligado proceeding, the Air Force's memorandum       submitted to the IRAC Chair would be critical to the FCC in       making its decision regarding Ligado's license modification       application. The Department remains strongly opposed to the       granting of the license modification sought by Ligado.       Accordingly, the Department requests NTIA to provide this       additional information to the FCC and that such information       be expeditiously submitted in the public record. 

       Your personal attention to this matter would be greatly       appreciated.      Dana Deasy, 

       Department of Defense Chief Information Officer.      Michael Griffin, 

       Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.                                   ____                                                  February 14, 2020.      Memorandum for IRAC Chairman       National Telecommunications and Information Administration,      U.S. Department of Commerce,      Washington, DC. 

       The Air Force, in the exercise of the Department of       Defense's (DoD) statutory duties under 10 U.S.C. Sec. 2281,       and as the Executive Agent for the Global Positioning System       (GPS), and in its role as a member of the National       Telecommunication Information Administration (NTIA)       Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC), hereby       submits supplemental information in support of the Department       of Commerce National Telecommunications and Information       Administration's letter to Federal Communications Commission       (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai of December 6, 2019. Specifically,       this letter provides additional detail regarding the expected       impacts on national security, operational impacts to the       warfighter, and effects on the military potential of GPS by       the proposed license modification sought by Ligado Networks       (Ligado). 

       Extensive and technically rigorous testing and analysis       conducted over the past nine years by DoD, the National       Space-based Positioning, Navigation and Timing Systems       Engineering Forum (NPEF), the Department and Transportation       (DOT), and the Air Force has shown--and Ligado itself has       conceded--that the proposed Ligado (previously LightSquared)       license modification threatens disruption of the GPS, which       is a critical National Security System. As such, the       Secretary of Defense, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. Sec. 2281, ``may       not agree to any restriction on the GPS System proposed by       the head of a department or agency of the United States       outside DoD that would adversely affect the military       potential of GPS.'' It is DoD's position that FCC approval of       Ligado's license modification would cause unacceptable       operational impacts to the warfighter and adversely affect       the military potential of GPS by negatively impacting GPS       receivers. Ligado's proposed accommodations of identifying       and then repairing or replacing potentially-impacted legacy       equipment is not feasible, affordable or technically       executable given the vast number of systems implicated,       including critical national security and weapon systems.       Accordingly, DoD remains strongly opposed to granting the       license modification sought by Ligado. 

       On December 6, 2019, the Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary       of Commerce for Communications and Information and the       Administrator of the NTIA sent a letter to the Chairman of       the FCC indicating the executive branch could not support       approval of the license modification request of Ligado. This       decision was supported by recommendations by the National       Space-based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Executive       Committee (PNT EXCOM) and by the June and November 2019       letters from the Secretary of Defense expressing strong       opposition to the Ligado license modification request. 

       DoD is providing this supplemental information in support       of the NTIA letter with specific focus on expected national       security and defense impacts to GPS, including operational       impacts to the warfighter, if the proposed license       modification request were granted. 

       The Department is providing the following specific       information in three categories: 1) national defense mission       categories that would be negatively impacted; 2) cost and       resource implications of identifying and repairing or       replacing any potentially adversely affected GPS receivers       supporting national defense missions; and 3) the time,       disruption, and programmatic impact to identify and repair or       replace the potentially affected GPS receivers supporting       national defense missions. Individually and collectively,       each of these categories would adversely affect the national       defense and security of the United States. It is the       Department's position that there are no practical measures to       meaningfully mitigate the impact of the proposed Ligado       license modification. 

       The mitigation measures Ligado has proposed are impractical       and un-executable in that they would shift the risk of       interference to, and place enormous burdens on, agencies and       other GPS users to monitor and report the interference.       Moreover, Ligado's mitigation proposals would not protect the       vast majority of GPS receivers, such as airborne uses, that       are not restricted to specific defined areas of operation       such as military installations. Ligado's proposal to replace       government GPS receivers that are affected by its proposed       network, is a tacit admission that there would be       interference, and is further addressed below in terms of       cost, operational and mission impact, and timelines to       replace these receivers. Additionally, the mitigation       proposal by Ligado, even if technically feasible, only covers       those receivers owned by the government and would leave many       high-value federal uses of civil GPS receivers not owned by       the government, such as high precision receivers, vulnerable       to interference, as Ligado has admitted in its filings.                   EXPECTED OPERATIONAL AND MISSION IMPACTS  

       The U.S. National Security Strategy emphasizes the       importance of maintaining leadership and freedom of action in       space as a vital U.S. interest as well as responding to any       interference to the Department's critical space capabilities.       The National Defense Strategy stresses the importance of       building a more lethal force and strengthening       (interoperable) alliances and partnerships. GPS is one       such space capability critical to the lethality of the       Department's forces and around which, over the years, the       Department has structured its weapons systems and business       processes. GPS is widely and heavily integrated throughout       DoD in operations and applications including, but not       limited to, precision weapons, air, land, and sea       navigation, communications and network synchronization,       command and control, civil engineering, and surveillance       applications. Given the sophistication, classification,       and the nature of how GPS receivers are embedded into all       aspects of DoD testing, training, exercise and operations,       it would be practically impossible for DoD to identify and       repair or replace all of the potentially adversely       affected receivers. These are not simple ``plug-n-play''       devices but would require significant time and resources       to effect software modifications, trial and testing, and       validation. The Department simply cannot accept such       negative operational and mission impacts to our       warfighting capabilities. In addition, military GPS       receivers are also used by Federal civil agencies,       specifically the National Aeronautics and Space       Administration (NASA), the Department of Homeland Security       (DHS), and the Department of State through agreements with       the DoD. For example, NASA uses high-precision military       GPS receivers for their launch anomaly monitoring and       destruct systems. DHS and the border patrol use military       GPS receivers in unmanned aerial surveillance systems       (UAS). In addition, some law enforcement and intelligence       agencies use military GPS in their UAS. The State       Department's diplomatic security service also uses       military GPS receivers. It would be untenable for the       United States to pursue an initiative that undermines       these capabilities, and it would       be exceptionally detrimental to national security. 

       Ligado's proposal would have significant effect on legacy       military receivers and civil receivers used by DoD. 

       Legacy Military GPS Receivers: Modernized GPS receivers       cannot replace all military GPS receivers currently in use.       Even after the transition to modernized military receivers is       completed (by 2035 at the earliest), some high precision       receivers would remain vulnerable to interference from the       Ligado network transmissions. Remaining legacy military       receivers are unable to lock onto weak signals and lack the       anti-jam capabilities more typical of more modern military       receivers. In addition to continued military use, other       Federal agencies and many partner nations will continue to       use these legacy high precision receivers. Even as the U.S.       military transitions to modernized GPS receivers, it is       unclear as to when, or if, legacy GPS high precision       receivers used by other critical agencies will be modernized. 

       Civil GPS Receivers Used by DoD: DoD makes use of civil GPS       receivers in non-combat environments, such as surveying,       flight training, training, exercises, other national security       events, and scientific applications. Like their civilian       counterparts, DoD surveyors and construction units often rely       on high-precision GPS receivers that are exceedingly       sensitive to interference from signals at nearby frequencies.       As analysis indicates, these high precision GPS receivers       potentially could be adversely affected at significant       distances from the Ligado-proposed terrestrial transmitters,       which would negatively impact high precision receiver use in       major military installations near urban areas of the United       States. Ligado has admitted in its filings that there would       be such interference. Additionally, both civilian and       commercial applications for high precision wideband-GPS       provide far-reaching benefits to the public interest,       including capabilities that go beyond the PNT services for       which it was originally developed. The great potential       capabilities wideband GPS applications hold would also be the       most susceptible to the adjacent band interference from       Ligado's proposed network. Further, DoD uses civil and       commercial infrastructure of many types on bases and test/      training ranges domestically and abroad. To the extent that       operation of commercial infrastructure is degraded by Ligados       proposed signals, DoD's use of electrical power,       communications networks, operation of unmanned vehicles       (including UAS), precision landings, helicopter operations,       collection of location based services data, first responder       applications, and other applications demanding high accuracy       would be at increased risk.                           Cost and Resource Impact  

       By 2024, DoD will have invested more than $15 billion       taxpayer dollars since 2000 to sustain and modernize the GPS       constellation and continue to modernize GPS user equipment       integration across the force. As described earlier, almost       every GPS receiver fielded throughout the DoD joint force       potentially could be adversely affected if Ligado's proposal       is approved. As indicated in the Fiscal Year 2020 President's       Budget, DoD is currently planning to spend more than $1.8       billion taxpayer dollars to procure, integrate and test       modernized GPS receivers, from 2019-2024, into user platforms       across the Services. The $1.8 billion figure will grow to a       total of approximately $3.5 billion when all of the       approximately 1 million GPS receivers currently in the DoD       inventory are transitioned to modernized GPS receivers before       2035. This cost includes the integration of the receivers       into each of thousands of different air, maritime, and ground       vehicles, as well as weapons. 

       Regarding Ligado's proposal to identify and repair or       replace potentially affected GPS receivers owned by the U.S.       government, given the classified nature of the military use       and the sheer number of platforms potentially affected,       Ligado could not possibly know the magnitude of the problem       or the costs and operational impacts relative to military       receivers. To avoid an adverse effect to the Department's       capabilities if Ligado's proposal were approved, DoD would       need to undertake unprecedented accelerated testing,       modification, and integration actions, which is cost- and       schedule-prohibitive and would likely result in significantly       degraded national security. For each integration, DoD would       need to take the asset out of service, test the platform to       ensure that the upgrade worked as planned and did not cause a       negative impact to other parts of the weapons system prior to       re-fielding. To be clear, every weapons system or platform in       the DoD inventory must be tested as an integrated system and       it would cause significant operational impact (including       substantial retesting) if modernized military GPS       receivers require further modification. Adding such a       requirement to mitigate the adverse effect to the military       potential of GPS from this potential interference would be       extremely difficult and likely cost prohibitive given       current technology.                 Time Required to Replace Impacted Receivers  

       Modification or replacement of GPS receivers within DoD has       historically taken approximately a decade due to the sheer       receiver numbers, complications with how receivers are       integrated in thousands of platforms and systems, depot and       scheduling, and global operations. The first M-code capable       receivers are now going through integration and testing and       will begin installation in DoD platforms beginning in 2020.       The full transition is not expected to be complete until at       least 2035, based on past experience transitioning from first       and second-generation GPS equipment to the present third       generation. Any change to the requirements for these       modernized receivers as a result of approving Ligado's       proposed network and the need to mitigate the resultant       interference would only extend that timeline, putting DoD       forces and warfighting capabilities at risk due to the       rapidly evolving threats. 

       It is therefore DoD's position that approval of Ligado's       proposal would adversely affect the military potential of GPS       significantly, based on the extensive testing done by DoD and       others. Consistent with 10 U.S.C. Sec. 2281, DoD cannot       accept this adverse impact to military use of GPS and the       resultant negative operational impacts to our warfighting       capabilities. Modification or replacement of GPS receivers       across the force to avoid adverse impacts from such a       proposal, even if a solution were shown to be feasible, could       take on the order of billions of dollars and delay fielding       of modified equipment needed to respond to rapidly evolving       threats by decades. 

       In his June 7, 2019 letter to FCC Chairman Pai, Acting       Secretary of Defense Shanahan stated there are too many       unknowns and the risks are far too great to federal       operations to allow Ligado's proposed system to proceed. We       collectively agree with that assessment. Accordingly, the       Department of Defense, pursuant to its statutory duties,       restates its formal objection to Ligados request for a       license modification and, along with the below signatories,       requests that it be rejected.                                                    Ms. Thu Luu,                                        Department of the Air Force,                                           Executive Agent for GPS. 

       The undersigned IRAC agencies endorse and support the       position stated by the Department of the Air Force and the       Department of Defense: 

       Ms. Sarah Bauer, Department of the Army; Mr. Kenneth       Willis, Department of the Navy; Mr. Ivan Navarro, Department       of Commerce; Mr. Rene (RJ) Balanga, NASA; Mr. Ramon L.       Gladden, Department of the Interior; Mr. Quan Vu, Department       of Justice; Mr. John Cornicelli, Department of Homeland       Security; Mr. George Dudley, Department of Energy; Mr.       Jonathan Williams, National Science Foundation; Mr. James       Arnold, Department of Transportation; Mr. Jerry Ulcek, U.S.       Coast Guard; Mr. Michael Richmond, Federal Aviation       Administration.  

   We use it for location features in       cellphones, navigation for vehicles and aircraft, and       financial and commercial transactions, including ATM       withdrawals. And every day, the Defense Department and our       colleagues across government use GPS to protect and serve the       public by coordinating global trade, banking and       transportation, as well as tracking terrorists and other       threats to U.S. national security. 

       A recent decision by the Federal Communications Commission,       however, will degrade the effectiveness and reliability of       this critical technology. On April 20, the FCC announced its       approval of Ligado Networks' application to create a cellular       network by repurposing a portion of radio spectrum adjacent       to that used by GPS. The power and proximity of Ligado's       ground emissions on this spectrum will drown out GPS's space-      based signals. If you've ever tried to talk to a friend while       standing next to the speakers at a rock concert, you get the       point. 

       In announcing its recent decision, the FCC rehashed       Ligado's old arguments, wrapped in new language, to say that       the company has made changes and the FCC has set conditions       to ensure GPS won't be affected. Don't be fooled. The sheer       number of cases of interference combined with the difficulty       of attribution will make enforcement nearly impossible, not       to mention expensive. 

       Independent testing and analyses conducted by nine federal       departments and agencies show that allowing Ligado's proposed       system--including its proposed modifications--to operate in       close proximity to the GPS spectrum would cause harmful       interference to millions of GPS receivers across the U.S. The       FCC's decision will disrupt the daily lives and commerce of       millions of Americans and inject unacceptable risk into       systems that are critical for emergency response, aviation       and missile defense. Further, it will stunt innovation in       GPS; people won't use the system if they can't depend on it       everywhere, all the time. For these and many other reasons,       13 federal agencies, along with leaders from a range of       industries, called on the FCC to deny the Ligado request. 

       Ligado claims it is the solution to America's 5G woes, but       its proposed license modification isn't really about 5G.       There is no evidence that the company has a technically       viable 5G solution. This is about one company changing the       rules to maximize the       value of its spectrum, and the cost to Americans is too great       to justify. 

       The Defense Department recognizes that 5G technology is       vital to maintaining America's strategic and economic       advantage over its competitors. We strongly support President       Trump's call for the U.S. private sector to lead the way, and       we're moving quickly to develop opportunities to share       midband spectrum, a finite resource. As demand outpaces       supply, spectrum sharing holds the key to U.S. dominance in       5G. The Defense Department will dedicate millions of dollars       to test 5G technologies at military bases, while promoting       collaboration among government agencies, academia, and allied       countries to advance a 5G solution. 

       We need a comprehensive, whole-of-nation approach to       develop technologies that affect so many. Disregarding the       concerns of industry and government--objections grounded in       hard data--the FCC's Ligado decision is a shortsighted       giveaway that will disrupt our way of life and potentially       cost the American people billions of dollars. 

       The first and most sacred responsibility of government is       to protect and defend its people. GPS allows us to pinpoint       911 calls, launch precision airstrikes, prepare our forces       for combat, and otherwise act to safeguard health and well-      being. Interfering with the accuracy and reliability of GPS       risks the safety of the American people and undermines       national and economic security. America deserves a better       alternative.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. We can't allow this to stand, and all of America agrees.  In the last 3 weeks, stakeholders from across the country and across  the economy have expressed their opposition to the FCC decision. 

  Not just the military, but all of government and the private sector-- including airlines, pilots, farmers, truckers, marine manufacturers,  conservationists, equipment manufacturers and distributors, road  builders, weather forecasters, and GPS device makers--are opposed to  the Ligado's application. 

  I know my colleagues here in the Senate have heard from all of these  groups, representing jobs and Americans from every single State who use  these GPS and satellite services every day. This has happened  nationally. People realized, all of a sudden, that GPS would be  affected by this. 

  I ask my colleagues to consider who supports the Ligado--hedge fund  investors. No one is supporting it. It is my understanding, from  talking to the people close to the FCC, that the FCC was expected to  reject the Ligado proposal once and for all. They had already rejected  it before. It has been there. The unanimous opposition from the  interagency review committee was not surprising, but the final outcome  was shocking. 

  With all of this opposition, how could the FCC decide, in the cover  of darkness over a weekend, that the unanimous concern of GPS  interference was worth the risk to support the investments of hedge  fund investors? I can't figure out what happened, nor can the former  FCC Commissioners. Why did the FCC change its course and in such a  dramatic fashion? We may never know. But we do know that Ligado has  spent $1.3 million in just 2020. That is the company that we are  talking about. They have spent $1.3 million on lobbyists trying to  convince Congress that their proposal is a good idea. 

  This chart shows the list of all of the lobbyists that come up to  $1.38 million. Keep in mind that is just for 3 months. Over a period of  a year, you can multiply that by four. Ligado is hiring whoever they  can to convince you to support the hedge fund investors. That is one of  the reasons I am talking about this today. I am not sure what form it  will take to reverse this decision. People have to hear from people  before they realize how bad this is. 

  When you have this many people--one of the individuals was a former  chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and turned lobbyist. He  is a guy who spent his career building the military. Obviously, he is  one of the lobbyists supporting this thing. 

  Ligado said this order is about winning the race for 5G and beating  China. Those who claim Ligado's proposal was necessary to defeat  China's 5G push are deliberately mixing up two different and important  spectrum issues in order to sell their product--the share of the mid- band 5G spectrum by DOD with industry and harmful interference of  Ligado's signal with the low band--that is L band, which we are talking  about, which is right next to GPS signals that would be used in nearly  every aspect of daily life. 

  The Ligado spectrum they are repurposing is not in the prime mid-band  spectrum being considered for 5G. Ligado's low-band spectrum was not a  part of the FCC's own plan to accelerate 5G development released in  September of 2018, the so-called ``5G FAST Plan.'' 

  I would like to say that it is complicated, but that isn't what they  did at all with this thing. Their concern was with only the L band,  which is next to the GPS. 

  Reliable GPS satellite communication is important to everyone in  America. It drives much of the Nation's economy. We shouldn't sacrifice  GPS reliability for the sake of lobbyists and hedge fund investors on  Wall Street. 

  I ask my colleagues to join me in urging the FCC to withdraw its  approval of Ligado's application. Instead of moving ahead with this  order, we have to reverse the order. That is the effort that is taking  place right now. If they had denied Ligado's application the same as  they have done for the last 10 years, there would not be a problem  today. We have people with an interest in this. 

  The hearing that we had just on May 6 was with the people who head up  Data DC and the DOD Chief Information Officer. By the way, in the  private sector he was the CIO of three of the largest corporations in  America. We had Dr. Michael Griffin, Undersecretary of Defense for  Research and Engineering, a retired U.S. Coast Guard Admiral; Thad  Allen, who is now on the National Space-Based Positioning, Navigation,  and Timing Advisory Board; and Gen. Jay Raymond, Chief of Space  Operations, U.S. Space Force. That is everyone who is really  knowledgeable about this. They are all unanimous in their opposition to  this program. 

  I would ask that Members keep advised of the opportunities they have  to reverse this decision. We would actually try to get the Federal  Communications Commission to do that on their own. 

   start at this time. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT