Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I was sitting through the last two  speakers and listening to them. You can tell that it is an election  year. The Democrats want to defeat President Trump, and I think  sometimes a tactic to use is to get someone's strongest point and try  to turn it into his weakest point. In this case, we have heard in just  the last few minutes that the President is handling the coronavirus  completely wrong, that he is critical of and then he was friendly to--I  couldn't quite figure out the relationship with China. I know the  Democrats in this Chamber are generally perceived as the close friends  of China and President Xi and the rest of them. 

  Also, to talk about what Speaker Pelosi has done in terms of the bill  that was passed in the House and the criticism that we are not taking  up that bill, well, all that bill is--we are not supposed to be talking  about anything in all of this heavy spending except doing something  about coronavirus. This is something that no one had anything to do  with. We didn't know it was going to happen. We had no preparation for  it. I have never experienced it in my life. Yet I do remember so well  when this body, this Senate, was working on a coronavirus bill and we  were to be voting on it on a Sunday at 6 o'clock in the evening, and  the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, came dancing in. It was the  first time I even knew she was in town because the House wasn't in  session, and she stopped it. She used her influence to try to stop it  and successfully did stop it. The vote was taking place at 6 p.m. on a  Sunday night, and nothing happened except a stall from then until 6  p.m. on Thursday night, when we finally did vote on it. In the  meantime, how many days passed? How many people died in the meantime? 

  Then, when they come up in the House and they come up with a bill  that is supposedly their answer to the coronavirus, it has nothing to  do with coronavirus. It has to do with the very liberal Democratic  agenda taking advantage of the fact that this crisis is on us in order  to use this to try to get things passed. I am talking about--now, I  don't have any notes down here with me. I don't know whether she is  using gun control or what other efforts they were using in that bill,  but it is one that has no place in the discussion when we are talking  about coronavirus. 

  The tragedy there, the people dying--and to credit this President, I  have to say, he has done a great job in addressing this. He is the one  who, every single day, is there with top medical people and afterward,  at the end of the day, having a news conference and getting from the  public what can we do better that we haven't been doing. He has handled  it in a very, very effective way. But that is not why I am here on the  floor                            Tribute to Tom Coburn  

  Madam President, I would like to read into the Record a speech I made  here on the Senate floor on December 11, 2014, about another Senator  from Oklahoma. I am here with something that is very sensitive to me  that I want to share.  

       I wish to make some unscripted comments, but sincere and       from the heart. I hope I am accurate when I say this, that I       think in some respect I discovered Tom Coburn. I suspect that       Tom and I are the only two who have ever had a major, high       level national political discussion in Adair, OK. I remember       hearing that there was a very conservative doctor from       Muskogee. I remember calling him up at that time and asking       him to run for the House of Representatives, which he did. He       kept his commitments and did everything that he was supposed       to do. I always remember that day. 

       As Senator Coburn knows, we have a place my wife and I       built on a big lake in Oklahoma back in 1962.  

  A lot of people outside of Oklahoma don't realize that Oklahoma has  more miles of freshwater shoreline than any of the 50 States. It is a  big lake State. She and I built our place way back a long time ago.  

       When I drive up there, I go through Adair, and I go through       that little sheltered area that is half torn down now. They       tore down the biggest bank in town. Every time I go by there,       I have to say I recall meeting for the first time with a       young doctor named Tom Coburn. 

       I regret to say that there are times in our service       together when we have not been in agreement on specific       issues, and I think we have a characteristic in common. I       think we are both kind of bullheaded, which has created some       temporary hard feelings, but there is one thing that       overshadows that. Jesus has a family, and His family has a       lot of people in it. Some are here in this room. Tom Coburn       and I are brothers. 

       In the 20 years I have been here in the Senate, I don't       believe I heard a speech that was as touching and sincere as       the speech I heard from my junior Senator a [short time] ago. 

       I really believe that in spite of all the things that have       happened--and there were some differences, but they were       minor--that he never ceased to be my brother, and I want to       ask the Senator right now to forgive me for the times I have       perhaps said something unintentionally that was not always       right and was not always from the heart. But I want my junior       Senator to know that I sincerely love him and am going to be       hurting with him with the troubles he has right now, or might       have in the future, and will sorely miss him in this body. 

       I ask that the Record show that I sincerely love my       brother, Senator Coburn.  

  Madam President, that was a speech I made on December 11, 2014, and  it sounded funny because, after the disagreement that we had, he and I  were talking just a short time ago, and that was well after this speech  I made in 2014, and neither one of us could remember what issue it was  that we disagreed on, but we knew there was one there. 

  Here is the truth. There was no one like Dr. Tom Coburn. There was no  one like him in Oklahoma. He was a simple country doctor from Muskogee.  He was a family doctor. He delivered thousands of babies in  Northeastern Oklahoma. I told him when he was running for the first  time: You don't have any problems. All you have to do is get all the  babies you delivered and have them bring their families along, and it  will be an overwhelming victory. 

  There was no one like him. He was a true fiscal conservative who  stayed true to his purposes. He had skills that made him arguably the  most thoughtful adviser in the Republican conference. 

  I think this is somewhat characteristic of doctors. It is part of  their culture. They advise people. People listen to them. And that was  Tom. Tom was always an adviser to everyone. In every policy decision,  Tom sought to be a faithful steward of the taxpayers' money and a  dedicated public servant to Oklahoma. 

  He had an impressive record of service in the House of  Representatives, as well as serving in the Senate with me, but nothing  about that legacy would have mattered to Tom. Tom knew what mattered in  life. What mattered in life was his family--Carolyn and his three  daughters. 

  Carolyn, I suspect you may probably even be watching right now, and I  want you to know how many people in this body--Tom is not here anymore,  but how many people love you and Tom. Tom knew what was important in  life and in Jesus. He is a brother in the Lord. He is my brother. 

  He will always be a Member of this institution, but we need to make  it official. 

  So, Madam President, in honor of his life and legacy, I would like to  ask unanimous consent that the Senate approve a resolution in honor of  the life and legacy of Tom Coburn, a doctor from Muskogee.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT