Hearing of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee - Opening Statement of Sen. Inhofe, Business Meeting on the USMCA


Today, U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), senior member of the Environmental and Public Works (EPW) Committee, submitted a statement for the record for an EPW Committee Business Meeting to consider the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act. The USMCA was advanced by a vote of 16 to 4.

Mr. Chairman, thank you for scheduling this consideration of USMCA so quickly. Oklahoma truckers, manufacturers and farmers have been waiting a long time for us to fix the outdated NAFTA agreement, but help is now on the way.

Back in 1994, I opposed NAFTA because it put American truckers at a disadvantage by allowing Mexican trucking companies to skirt domestic hours of service laws. Thankfully, President Trump recognized these concerns, and successfully negotiated a new, fair agreement: the USMCA.

USMCA will now allow for a much more level playing field for American companies. For example, by preserving and enhancing U.S. duty-free access to Mexican and Canadian markets. It's also good for Oklahoma. A total of $2 billion in economic revenue and 15,000 jobs are supported by agricultural exports to Canada and Mexico -- USMCA will ensure this continues to grow. Nationally, USMCA is expected to add $68 billion to our economy and more than 175,000 jobs.

Most importantly to this committee, I am very pleased that there are no radical, job-killing climate mandates within the agreement that would keep American businesses from competing with other countries, or liberal policy riders that would force us to adhere to globalist climate agreements, like the Paris Climate Agreement.

The USMCA--both what is in it and what isn't in it--is another massive accomplishment for President Trump and the nation. I am proud to support USMCA -- there is no question it will provide certainty for the future and increase economic growth for American businesses across every sector.