Hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee - Opening Statement of Sen. Jim Inhofe, Hearing on the Posture of the U.S. Air Force


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, submitted opening remarks for the record this morning at a SASC hearing on the posture of the U.S. Air Force. 

Witnesses included the Honorable Barbara Barrett, Secretary of the Air Force, and General David Goldfein, Chief of Staff of the Air Force. 

Inhofe's full statement for the record follows: 

The Committee meets today to receive testimony on the posture of the U.S. Air Force and its fiscal year 2021 budget request.

We welcome Barbara Barrett, Secretary of the Air Force, and General David Goldfein, Chief of Staff of the Air Force. Thank you both for your distinguished service and your continuing willingness to serve our great nation.

The National Defense Strategy directs our nation's military to prepare for the return of great power competition. This means we must be prepared to deter and, if necessary, defeat our near-peer adversaries like Russia and China. 

In order for the Air Force to achieve that goal, it must be properly manned, trained, and equipped.  At the end of the Obama administration, the Air Force was at a historic low in readiness and size. Less than 10 percent of combat squadrons were ready to deploy and even less were prepared for a peer fight. We commend the progress you have made in rebuilding readiness, but more needs to be done. A high state of readiness is crucial for our nation to demonstrate peace through strength. 

While our forces suffered from being ill prepared, our adversaries moved out and recapitalized both their conventional and nuclear forces with alarming speed. China and Russia present a credible threat to America and our allies. In fact, in some areas they have even surpassed us.

You both have testified that the Air Force is too small and too old to do what the nation asks. We agree with you and the many independent studies that show you need to grow and modernize. But we are concerned that your current budget is inadequate to allow you to reach the requirement of 386 squadrons.

Given the need to grow, there is concern that this year's budget request takes risk by divesting aircraft we need today; in hopes of buying modern capability in the future. Historically, that approach has failed to achieve the desired results.

We understand that much of those decisions were caused by a flat budget that falls well short of the three to five percent growth recommended by the National Defense Strategy Commission report. In fact, it does not even keep up with inflation.

Any successful modernization strategy must focus on results and meeting the needs of tomorrow's fight but also needs to maintain forces capable of deterring and defeating an adversary today. We look forward to working with you to ensure be meet both the needs of today's warfighters while modernizing to ensure we regain our advantages for the future.