Hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee - Opening Statement of Sen. Inhofe, Hearing on DOD Nominations


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, delivered opening remarks today at a nomination hearing to consider the nominations of Ambassador Kenneth Braithwaite to be Secretary of the Navy; General Charles Brown to be Chief of Staff of the Air Force; Dr. James Anderson to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. 

As Prepared for Delivery: 

Good morning.  The Committee meets today to consider the nominations of: Ambassador Kenneth Braithwaite to be the Secretary of the Navy; General Charles Brown, U.S. Air Force, to be Chief of Staff of the Air Force; and Dr. James Anderson to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.

Thank you all for being here today--particularly under the current circumstances our country is facing. We typically enjoy meeting the families of our nominees, but today's hearing is anything but typical. Because of the requirement to practice social distancing, we have been unable to accommodate the presence of family and friends in the hearing room. 

Ambassador Braithwaite -- On behalf of the committee, welcome, and greetings to your wife Melissa, daughter Grace and son, Harrison. 

General Brown -- A shout out to your wife Sharene and your sons Sean and Ross who are watching online. 

Dr. Anderson -- Welcome.  A sincere, long-distance thank you to your wife, Emily, and children James and Olivia.  

We have three accomplished public servants before the committee today.  Each of you is a lifetime volunteer. Each of you volunteered to serve your country as a member of the Armed Forces; each of you volunteered to serve in this Administration as a senior leader; and each of you has volunteered yet again--to appear today before the committee for confirmation.

Ambassador Braithwaite -- You have been the Ambassador to the Kingdom of Norway since February 2018. You served more than 27 years in the Navy and Navy Reserve, attaining the grade of Rear Admiral. You have also had a successful business career in the health care and communications industries.  

General Brown -- By my count, you are currently triple-hatted as:  Commander, Pacific Air Forces; as the Air Component Commander, U.S. Indo-Pacific Command; and as the Executive Director, Pacific Air Combat Operations Staff at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam. You are a command pilot with more than 2,900 flying hour, including 130 combat hours.

Dr. Anderson -- You have served in a variety of senior positions in DOD, including as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Strategy, Plans, and Capabilities since August 2018.  You began your career as a Marine Corps intelligence officer and have realized many accomplishments in education and academic administration in both the government and private sectors.

I speak for the Committee when I say that we appreciate your willingness to appear before us today and to continue serving this great country of ours.

I don't have to tell you three that the world today is more dangerous than it has been in our lifetime.

So far this year, this Committee has focused on ensuring that DOD has the authorities and resources it needs to implement the National Defense Strategy.

Further, the Committee has been working for more than a year on the privatized housing crisis that has directly impacted family morale, readiness, retention, and health. 

As senior leaders in the Department of Defense today, and in the positions for which you have been nominated, you have and would continue to play key roles--both in winning the great power competition and in taking care of our people. 

We look forward to hearing your views on these and other important issues.