Hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee - Opening Statement of Sen. Jim Inhofe, Hearing on the FY2021 Defense Authorization Request


As Prepared for Delivery: 

The Senate Armed Services Committee meets today to continue receiving the posture statements from our combatant commands. Testifying today, we have: General Tod D. Wolters, Commander, United States European Command and North Atlantic Treaty Organization Supreme Allied Commander Europe; and General Stephen R. Lyons, Commander, United States Transportation Command. 

Gentlemen, thank you for your distinguished service to our country.

As stated many times before, the Senate Armed Services Committee's top priority is to ensure the effective implementation of the National Defense Strategy.

That means we must ensure that in this era of great power competition with Russia and China that our military services are resourcing our combatant commands to address the challenge of strategic competition.

This is especially true of our two combatant commands here today. EUCOM is focused on deterring Vladimir Putin, who has repeatedly shown his willingness to use force to achieve his political objectives. And then there's TRANSCOM, whose focus on full-spectrum mobility operations include sealift and airlift, both of which face capability shortfalls.

I just returned from the Munich Security Conference, a great reminder of the importance of allies and partners as we deal with challenges from China and Russia. There are great opportunities to work with our European friends, especially in Africa. And I hope we'll continue to do that.

America's commitment to NATO remains bipartisan and unwavering. We're matching our words with action, especially through our posture investments in the European Deterrence Initiative and the upcoming exercise called Defender 2020, which will be the largest movement of U.S. troops to Europe since the end of the Cold War. But the work is not yet over.

General Wolters, I look forward to hearing about your priorities going forward, especially in the maritime domain where Russia is increasingly active with advanced submarines, and in air and missile defense as Russia continues to threaten U.S. and allied forces with its missile arsenal.

General Lyons, you recently stated that the aerial-refueling fleet is the most stressed asset in the U.S. Transportation Command's arsenal, so I look forward on getting your thoughts on how to best address this grave shortfall in the wake of recent program delays of the KC-46 program.