ICYMI: SASC Chairman Inhofe Questions Witnesses at SOUTHCOM and AFRICOM Posture Hearing


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, questioned witnesses this morning at a SASC posture hearing with United States Africa Command and United States Southern Command.

Witnesses included General Stephen J. Townsend, Commander of United States Africa Command, and Admiral Craig S. Faller, Commander of United States Southern Command.

Inhofe: Thank you, Admiral Faller. The comments I made in my opening statement, I'm very sincere about because a lot of people don't realize, when they look at all the comms that we have around, did we ever have the right resources relative to the threats that are posed? So I'm going to ask you each the same question, which I've worded very carefully, because we hear from so many people who are not aware of the threat to our national security that you would find in SOUTHCOM and in Africa. Why does it really matter in terms of our national security? I'm going to start with you, Admiral Faller; you've touched on it, and I know you believe in it. The question is why should the American people care about what China and Russia are doing in Africa and Latin America? Specifically, how does what they are doing threaten our national security? I know the President is very interested in this. He wants to make sure that we don't have resources in places that don't have a direct threat on our national security. I'd like to have you restate what the direct threat is out there to our national security in your area.

Admiral Faller: Senator, this region matters. It's the cultural values, it's the extensive interaction we have in trade. We have a positive trade balance with the region, but that's eroding. We are the number-one trade partner; China is fast catching us in that regard. Panama Canal strategic access -- two thirds of the traffic that goes through that has an economic direct tie to the United States. I look around the region, and I see China working on multiple port deals, IT infrastructure, dams, mining, logging, fishing--including significant illegal fishing, illegal mining and illegal logging. And look at the port access they're pursuing in El Salvador, Jamaica, and the Bahamas, and I ask myself the question, why would China want to buy an island and lockup a 99-year lease for most of the coast of El Salvador, right here, within a two-hour flight of the continental United States? They are trying to achieve positional advantage right here in our neighborhood.  And that's alarming and concerning to me and drives a sense of urgency with which I look at this competition.

Inhofe: You know the terrorists, they're out there, and we're not really talking about just locally there in El Salvador and the rest. You are the door to this country right through your area, and I think you've stated that very well. And the same thing to you, General Townsend.

We have--I think I may not have mentioned this in the opening statement--if you're looking for places to save, I can't see that you'd in find it there. We have, what, a total of 6,000, 6,500 people, in the whole continent. Of that, most of those, 4,000 of those, are in Djibouti. Of course, they have other missions outside of Africa, but when you go to West Africa even, we've got 1,200, 1,300 people, and so it's not like the other comms with 75, 80, and 100,000 people--if what you're trying to accomplish is to reduce our footprint around the world. Specifically in Africa, talk about how that directly affects our national security.

General Townsend: Thank you, Chairman. So you asked why should America care about Africa. For a lot of the same reasons that Admiral Faller talked about America caring about South America though it's a little bit more geographically distant.

The strategic access that America needs to the African continent rests on the fact that it's that global crossroads I talked about in my opening statement. There's also tremendous natural resources there, to include rare earth minerals that America needs.There's also a burgeoning population there. There's good and bad news with that. It's a tremendous potential opportunity for the future and also significant risk.

I think that in the past maybe we've been able to pay less attention to Africa and it be ok for America. I don't believe that's the case for the future. 

As far as the threats go that you ask about, China and Russia are every bit as busy in Africa today for the same reasons that Admiral Faller talked about them being busy in South America. They are acting on their own behalf for positional advantage, and Russia in particular pursuing extractive venture. So China and Russia are seeking to counter the strategic access we need for American security and American prosperity

Secondly, the violent extremist organizations that are on the continent both in the east and in the west. Some of those groups threaten the America homeland today, and some of them will potentially be a threat in future.

Inhofe: I appreciate that, and I'm glad you mentioned in your opening statement the IMET program. Because you know China realizes what we've done with that program, how well that has served us, so now they are emulating that. They actually had a meeting in Beijing. I think they had all 52 countries represented there, talking about how they were going to expand that program, put more money in it. You're watching that, I'm sure, very carefully throughout your whole area.

General Townsend: Yes, Chairman.

Click here to watch Chairman Inhofe's opening remarks.