ICYMI: Chairman Inhofe Questions Witnesses at SASC Hearing on EUCOM and TRANSCOM


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, questioned witnesses this morning at a SASC hearing in review of the Defense Authorization Request for Fiscal Year 2021 for United States European Command and United States Transportation Command.

Witnesses included: General Tod D. Wolters, Commander, United States European Command and North Atlantic Treaty Organization Supreme Allied Commander Europe; and General Stephen R. Lyons, Commander, United States Transportation Command. 

Inhofe: As I mentioned, General Wolters, we appreciate the briefing that we got in Germany, and you covered something that I think it might be worth repeating here. In October 2019, news reports suggest Russia deployed as many 10 submarines for some of the largest fleet maneuvers since the Cold War. Can you describe as you did this last week how the pace and scope of Russia's maritime activity has changed in recent years, and what implications that has for EUCOM?

Wolters: Yes, Chairman. We took note of the Russian undersea activity in the summer-fall of 2018 and compared it to what Russia executed in the summer of '19, fall of '19, and what we saw was a 50 percent increase in the number of resources in the undersea that Russia committed to both those out-of-area submarine patrol operations, but what we also witnessed was an improved degree of good-ordered discipline on behalf of the Russian sailors. This observation is one more reflection about how important it is to continue to improve our competitive edge to buy down the risk to ensure that we can operate with freedom.

Inhofe: OK, that's good. On that same trip, we went through Rota, Spain, where they were talking about adding two U.S. destroyers to the four that are there already. Is that something you support? Where does that fall into -- what level of request do you have for additional forces in EUCOM. 

Wolters: Chairman, it's precisely in line with our request for two additional destroyers. What I'm also proud to report with the support of this committee through EDI, we've been in a position where we've been able to improve and mature the infrastructure at Rota, if you asked me to accept two more destroyers tomorrow, we actually possess the infrastructure at Rota to be able to house those two additional destroyers, a reflection of the value of the funds for deterrence.

Inhofe: Yes, they made that very clear. Alright, General Lyons, I commented in my opening statement about the KC-46. Some of us went from here in Washington up to Seattle to fly the first ones down to Altus Air Force Base, and I remember at that time [when we announced the KC-46 would be at Altus], we had the Secretary of the Air Force Deborah James there. I recall making an observation, and that was that in 1959, two wonderful things happened: number one, I got married, and number two, the first [KC-135s] were actually delivered to Altus Air Force Base.

At that time [in 2019, when the first KC-46s were brought to Altus Air Force Base], we didn't know that there was any problem, at least I didn't know, and I don't think anyone else did either because we were just rejoicing. The fact that has lasted 60 years -- she [Secretary James] even commented, "that looks like it's going to enhance the prosperity of Altus Air Force Base for the next 60 years." So that was something that really was--we were not aware of.

So now you've got a problem [with the KC-46], and that problem is what are you going to do to fill that function? I know you've given a lot of thought to it. Why don't you let us know where you are right now? We've been doing this for years, getting rid of old things before we got the new ones online, ready to perform. So tell us where we are. What's that going to do with the preparations we've already made for the KC-135s and the KC-10s to actually be downgraded?

Lyons: Chairman, thanks. As you mentioned in your opening comments aerial refueling as a force element is the most stressed force element in the TRANSCOM portfolio, both for day-to-day operations as well as for higher-end conflict operations. I'll defer to the Air Force on the particular programmatics of the KC-46 as it comes online --

Inhofe: Yes, I mentioned that to you before this meeting that we'll be having the Air Force's posture hearing, and we'll want to talk about that at that time too.

Lyons: Yes, sir, and what I can describe as operationally as we bring the KC-46 on and take on more jets and we convert more crews, when that capability is not useable, and it's not today presentable to the joint force for some technical deficiencies, that means a dip in operational capabilities for the joint force in day-to-day operations in the active component, if in fact we continue to retire the KC-135 and the KC-10 at the rate that was proposed by the Air Force. So we're working very, very close with the Air Force and the Department to retain a level of capability, of legacy capability, so we can continue to support joint operations.

Inhofe: So you are retaining some that you had not planned on retaining had we not had the problem with the KC-46, I assume.

Lyons: We're working with the Air Force now. There was some number of planes that were retired, were programmed for retirement in FY21 as you saw in the budget submission that we believe must be retained--13 KC-135s and 10 KC-10s--that we believe must be retained in the conversion.

Inhofe: That's good. Senator Reed.