Impeachment




BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, nearly 20 years ago, I was here in this  exact spot--I remember it so well--deliberating the guilt or innocence  of a President. It happens that at that time, it was President Clinton  from your State of Arkansas. At that time, I said that I thought it  would probably be the most important vote I would cast as a Senator. I  was wrong. I think my vote on Wednesday--the day after tomorrow--to  acquit President Trump will be the most important vote of my career. I  really believe that. 

  Over the past few weeks, as we have considered impeachment, there has  been a lot made of the fact that I was willing to vote to convict  President Clinton 20 years ago and yet to vote the other way in the  current process  we are under right now. Putting the morality question from President  Clinton aside, this supposed debate highlights the central point of the  differences in the impeachment process and why President Trump should  not be impeached. 

  Before Clinton was even impeached, he admitted to the crime of  perjury. This is a big difference because we have a President right now  who has not admitted that. In fact, there have not really been  accusations of a crime. Our debate then was about whether perjury was a  high crime or misdemeanor. I believe it was. As I said then, the  President should be held to the highest standard. 

  But that was substantially different than the question before us  today. The question put to us by the House managers is an evidentiary  one. It is one that asks the question if, according to the evidence  presented, there is a determination that President Trump is guilty of a  crime, and the answer is no. Presidents should be held to the highest  standard, but that standard can't be a false, moving standard that  isn't based on evidence or is established by a court of public opinion. 

  Here is why I will vote to acquit the President. The whole  impeachment inquiry was initiated on the basis that President Trump  orchestrated the quid pro quo with Ukrainian's President during a phone  call on July 25 of 2019. It is kind of confusing. 

  A lot of people don't really understand what it is all about, but  Ukraine has had serious problems. You know what is happening. The  Russians have been there mass murdering the Ukrainians for a long  period of time. We have watched that happen. So they kind of put this  thing together saying: Well, there was an arrangement made by President  Trump that they would withhold military aid to Ukraine unless there was  a deal they could make and have something investigated by the President  of Ukraine. Now, the House managers spent 75 percent of their time on  this point and driving home the importance of our partnership with  Ukraine and talking about the Russian aggression. The facts weren't  there, but, worse, it is hypocritical. There was nothing wrong with  President Trump's phone call with President Zelensky. 

  You might wonder how I can be so sure. It is simple. The House  Democrats' allegations were secondhand, and that means they were  hearsay. There was not one direct witness. In fact, they had 17  witnesses in the House of Representatives and not one of them were  firsthand. The transcript speaks for itself. There was no evidence of a  quid pro quo or of any wrongdoing, whatsoever, just of a President who  understands both the importance of Ukraine as an ally and the  importance of rooting out corruption. President Zelensky said publicly  that he felt no pressure. He testified about this and Trump asking to  investigate anything in exchange for foreign aid. 

  You have to keep in mind we have a very conservative President. He  doesn't just dish out foreign aid to everybody who needs it. In this  case, there was a necessity to have military aid. We couldn't get any  lethal military aid from President Obama. All he wanted to send was  blankets and K-rations. They don't have K-rations anymore; they call it  something else. MREs. But, nonetheless, there was not going to be any  military aid sent to them. 

  The Trump administration placed a brief, temporary hold on the aid to  Ukraine to ensure that the American taxpayers were not going to be  abused. This is very significant. He did this to Ukraine to make sure  that the amount of money that was sent in there was going to be used  properly and the amount of military aid that was going to be used. 

  But at the same time, you have to keep in mind he was doing that with  everybody else too. He is just not a fast-spending President. He is  going to make sure things have to be made in accordance with their  needs. In fact, at other times, he withheld the same type financial aid  to Afghanistan, South Korea, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, Lebanon,  and Pakistan. So the fact that he did it with Ukraine was consistent  with his other policies. This is what he does and what he has always  done. 

  I am confident about this because I talked to President Trump  directly about it. I am the chair of the Senate Armed Services  Committee, the committee is responsible for authorizing lethal aid to  Ukraine. I have been working on securing that lethal aid for a long  period of time, dating back to 2014. In 2014, we had a different  President. It was President Obama. And then the Ukraine President  Poroshenko--I can remember being in Ukraine with Poroshenko, and I  talked to him about this. This was the same time Russia was in Ukraine  and was mass killing the Ukrainians. We went to President Obama to get  help, and he wouldn't do it. He didn't want to send any lethal military  aid. And he said over and over again--we talked about blankets and K- rations. When President Trump came into office, he changed it. He is  the first President to provide lethal aid to Ukraine. He has been a  committed partner in the region helping them withstand Russian  aggression. 

  I bring this up because during the first 3 days of the House  managers' presentation, about 75 percent of that time was spent on this  issue talking about his lack of support for Ukraine, when in reality,  this President has been supporting Ukraine. The House managers who were  serving in the House at that time--this is significant. Of the House  managers--however many were sitting over here for the last week--they  are all talking about things they want to do for Ukraine. Yet the first  vote that was taken originated in the Armed Services Committee for FY  2016, and it happened to be that the Democrats--the very three  Democrats who were serving at that time--voted against it. They didn't  vote for it. This is the type of thing you get when this hate-motivated  stuff was going on for such a long period of time. 

  The House didn't prove that Trump committed a crime. I am the first  to admit I am not a lawyer. Sometimes I think that plays to my  advantage. I look at things in a different way. I try to just inject a  little bit of common sense. I listened to the lawyers and, frankly, I  didn't even understand what some of them were saying, but I do know  pretty much what is going on around here. 

  In this case, the reasons behind why the President should not be  impeached are common sense. He didn't commit a crime. That didn't come  just from me. You would expect me to say that. That came from others  who were the well-respected attorneys who were involved in each side of  this case. Each of the past impeachment cases in the House of  Representatives accused Presidents Johnson, Nixon, and Clinton of  committing a crime. This President didn't commit a crime. But Clinton  did, and he admitted that he did. It was perjury at that time. That is  a crime. It was the same thing with Nixon and the same thing with  Johnson. So all those things that have happened in recent history have  been crimes but not with this President. 

  The Democrats wanted to impeach President Trump since he took office.  I think there was a witness we had today--I believe it was today--they  had a visual up here that showed all the people who have been trying to  impeach President Trump ever since he took office. I am talking about  the first week he was in office. It was all documented up there. They  are still at it. I have no doubt they will continue to do that, but it  is not going to work. It didn't work in this case. 

  Democrats have wanted to impeach him since he took office. The  Washington Post reported the concerted effort by the leftwing advocacy  groups to move toward impeachment of the President only minutes after  his inauguration. So they have been looking for a reason to impeach  President Trump. 

  I think one of the stars of the testimony that went on was Alan  Dershowitz. He is someone who is held in the highest regard. He is a  law professor at Harvard University, and he is a strong Democrat. He is  not a Republican. First thing he did was admit he voted for Hillary  Clinton in 2016, so that qualifies him in a different way than most of  the people who were here as witnesses. He was direct in his  presentation and shredded the Democrats' case. He made it clear that  abuse of power should be a political weapon suited for a campaign, not  impeachment, as abuse of power is not a crime or impeachable conduct.  

  Dershowitz also explained that virtually every President since  President Washington could have been accused of impeachment if they  used the criteria that the House managers--the ones who were sitting  over here--were using. That was a level that could not be used or it  would have affected every other President if it had been used at that  time. 

  He also had an important comment on whether or not we needed to hear  sworn testimony from John Bolton. This is what he said. This is a quote  by Dershowitz. He said: ``Nothing in the Bolton revelations, even if  true, would rise to the level of an abuse of power or an impeachable  offense.'' That is Alan Dershowitz. 

  It is clear that President Trump must be acquitted of the charge of  abuse of power on its merits. A vote to convict in this case would be a  dangerous precedent. 

  I would say, time and time again, that during the trial, the House  managers have preached at us that the truth matters, that facts matter;  that we must convict the President and remove him from office. In fact,  the House managers' closing arguments--I tried to keep count of every  time they made the accusations using the words ``cheat,''  ``obstruction,'' ``crimes,'' and it was so many times, I lost track-- but truth matters. Just because you say the President has committed a  crime doesn't make it true. 

  Here is what is true. This has been a partisan process from start to  finish. Compare that to the past. The impeachment inquiry against  President Nixon was authorized by a vote of 410 to 4 in the Congress,  an overwhelming bipartisan vote. The same thing was true with Clinton.  They had 31 Democrats who voted to impeach the President. Yet in the  vote of this impeachment inquiry, the final vote to impeach President  Trump was strictly partisan. Not a single House Republican voted to  impeach the President. On the contrary, nearly every House Democrat  did. The only bipartisan vote was against impeachment. 

  I listened to the facts and I have listened to the evidence and I am  convinced President Trump has not committed a crime. All the legal  minds who gave testimony pretty much agreed with that, including  Dershowitz. 

  I think, though, it has to be said there is a hatred for Trump. We  have to admit there is something about him that a lot of people don't  like, whether it is his demeanor or it is his style. I understand that.  But when you listen to the substance, look at what he has done right  now rebuilding the military, including killing the top terrorists. I am  particularly sensitive to this because this is my committee. We have  watched what he has done to the military. 

  Back during the Obama administration, using constant dollars during  the last 5 years of his 8-year tenure, he actually reduced the spending  in military by 25 percent. I don't think that has ever been done in the  history of this country, except maybe immediately following World War  II. Yet there he is, rebuilding the military, and we are now back to  where we are competitive. I have to admit, though, during those last 5  years of Obama, we really hurt ourselves in terms of our relationships  in terms of China and Russia taking the leadership positions they have  taken. He has been rebuilding the military. He has been confirming  constitutional judges. Confirming 187 judges in the last 3 years is a  record that hasn't been done before. Oddly enough, these are judges who  have actually read the Constitution. That is a novel idea. 

  I would say that this is the best economy we have had in decades.  Last week we went to 3.5 percent unemployment. We used to consider 4  percent unemployment as being fully employed, and yet I don't even have  a memory to when it has been down to 3.5 percent. 

  The trade deal we did is new. It shows we are getting things done. We  have more Americans working today than ever before, and the median  household income is the highest it has ever been. 

  We are going to have a very significant vote on Wednesday. I think  you know how I am going to vote. I am going to vote to acquit the  President on both Articles of Impeachment. That will be a very  significant vote. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT