Inhofe Questions Witness at EPW Hearing about Impact of FCC Ligado Order


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) questioned witness Steve McGough, Chairman of the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, President and Chief Financial Officer of HCSS, yesterday at an Environmental Public Works (EPW) Hearing entitled, "Infrastructure: The Road to Recovery."

Inhofe: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to get into another subject here and I would like to address this to Mr. McGough.

First of all, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has just done the Ligado order which would allow Ligado to re-purpose its spectrum around GPS. This would be a devastating effect on the military. I chair the Senate Armed Services Committee, so naturally that is where my concern was. In fact there was one general that said this would pose, "the most significant non-combat threat to our national security of my lifetime." That is how big of a deal it is. We had a great hearing, people understood it, it was well articulated. It also affects everybody else--all of America. We were allowed 30 days to file a motion for a reconsideration. There are eight petitions representing some 22 organizations--one of those was AOPA. You filed this petition with the American Farm Bureau and the Association of Equipment Manufacturers. What I would like to ask you is can you speak to the impact of this order--what this would have on your members and on the construction industry?

McGough: Thank you, Senator.

The transportation construction industry is using more new innovative equipment on job sites from tasks like surveying, to utilities, grading control and enhanced material applications. This equipment uses GPS. The Ligado proposal network shows significant interference with GPS and other signals likely. An interference would be disruptive on job sites and can contribute and jeopardize the safety and will most surely cause project delays. Currently, there are over 900 million GPS receivers nationwide--99 percent of those are operated by the private sector, none of which will be compensated under this order. Even more concerning, if you look at the job site level, when you do have interference, the FCC order is to direct you to a 1-800 number. It seems illogical that you would have construction workers not realizing where their interference is coming from and that that would not cause project delays as far as getting to a time of resolution. We would urge the FCC to re-visit their orders and the impacts that the Ligado order would have on everyday users that depend on a reliable GPS system.

Inhofe: I appreciate that and, during this hearing, I did take the time to look up and find that Ligado has actually spent well in excess of a million dollars on lobbyists. They are busy out there working--someone is concerned about the amount of money that is going to be involved in this.