Inhofe Praises Senate Passage of USMCA: "Oklahoma workers are winning under President Trump"


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) today praised the Senate passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), which would replace the outdated North American Free Trade Agreement.

"I am pleased to see the USMCA pass through the Senate today," Inhofe said. "American farmers, businesses and manufacturers put pressure on Speaker Pelosi after House Democrats intentionally delayed its consideration--and it worked. The USMCA will now head to the president's desk to be signed into law. 

"I opposed the old NAFTA for good reason--it harmed American truckers and put our businesses at a disadvantage. This updated agreement establishes a framework that reflects the realities of the 21st century. We know that American farmers and ranchers have the best products and this deal ensures our producers have free and fair access to North American markets. The USMCA creates a level playing field for all and proves what I already knew: Oklahoma workers are winning under President Trump."

Inhofe was the only member of the Oklahoma delegation who opposed NAFTA because it harmed American truckers and put U.S. businesses at a disadvantage. Currently, roughly 15,000 jobs in Oklahoma are supported by agricultural exports to Canada and Mexico. That equals nearly $2 billion a year. Read more in his October op-ed in The Oklahoman: Point of View: Trump's trade policies benefit Oklahoma business.

Inhofe urged the House to bring the trade deal up for a vote, along with the rest of the Oklahoma delegation, on both October 1, 2019 of this year and again in December.

Leaders across Oklahoma praised Inhofe's work to benefits the state with the USMCA:

"Oklahoma's business community is grateful for Sen. Inhofe's steadfast support of USMCA. The new agreement comes as welcome news for Oklahoma's economy and the more than 112,000 jobs that depend on trade with Mexico and Canada," said Fred Morgan, President and CEO of the State Chamber of Oklahoma.

"We commend Congressional leaders on the new USMCA agreement and appreciate Sen. Inhofe's steadfast support of fair trade along with his commitment to Oklahoma's manufacturing industry. Mexico and Canada are dynamic markets for Oklahoma goods and are the most substantial portion of our foreign sales. This new pact championed by Sen. Inhofe is a huge win for Oklahoma manufacturers and ensures the $2 billion in exports will continue to grow, bolstering our economy and supporting high-wage jobs in communities across the state. This stronger trade relationship with our neighboring countries allows us to better capitalize on our assets while preparing for success in an increasingly complex global environment," said Dave Rowland, President and CEO of the Oklahoma Manufacturing Alliance.

"After facing several challenging years, Oklahoma farmers and ranchers can breathe a little easier today thanks to the Senate's final passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. The historic deal helps preserve our valuable relationships with our closest trade partners while also providing an estimated $2 billion increase in agricultural exports. Oklahoma Farm Bureau members are grateful for the work of Sen. Jim Inhofe who listened to the concerns of Oklahoma ag producers and worked tirelessly to help bring the deal across the finish line," said Rodd Moesel, President of the Oklahoma Farm Bureau.

"The Oklahoma Trucking Association appreciates Senator Inhofe's steadfast support of USMCA and the Oklahoma Trucking industry. For far too long, OTA trucking members have felt the impact of foreign companies taking away jobs and profits from American truckers. Senator Inhofe wisely recognized this issue in the original NAFTA and we are proud to see this new agreement will restrict this issue and ensure Mexican trucking carriers are held to the same standards as U.S. truckers," said Jim Newport, CEO of the Oklahoma Trucking Association.

Senator Inhofe is in Oklahoma today to be with a family member facing a medical issue. He plans to return to Washington on Tuesday where he will be sworn in with no delay to the impeachment process.