Inhofe Praises President's Signing of USMCA


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) praised President Trump today for signing the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), which would replace the outdated North American Free Trade Agreement.

"Oklahoma farmers, businesses and manufacturers won today with President Trump's signing of the USMCA," Inhofe said. "This new trade agreement provides certainty for American farmers and ranchers while giving them free and fair access to North American markets. I will continue to fight alongside the president to ensure Oklahoma workers keep winning.

"The USMCA re-emphasizes President Trump's commitment to a trade vision that puts America first. We saw this with the phase one trade deal he signed with China earlier this month. We saw it with the trade deals he struck with Japan and Korea. It's clear--President Trump is leveling the playing field with global competitors and America is benefitting because of it. I have no doubt he is nowhere near done--we're going to keep working to open new markets, create jobs and grow our economy."

Inhofe was the only member of the Oklahoma delegation who opposed NAFTA because it harmed American truckers and put U.S. businesses at a disadvantage. Currently, roughly 15,000 jobs in Oklahoma are supported by agricultural exports to Canada and Mexico. That equals nearly $2 billion a year. Read more in his October op-ed in The Oklahoman: Point of View: Trump's trade policies benefit Oklahoma business.

Inhofe urged the House to bring the trade deal up for a vote, along with the rest of the Oklahoma delegation, on both October 1, 2019, and again in December.

Earlier this month, Inhofe praised the Senate passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.

Leaders across Oklahoma praised Inhofe's work on the USMCA when it passed the Senate:

"Oklahoma's business community is grateful for Sen. Inhofe's steadfast support of USMCA. The new agreement comes as welcome news for Oklahoma's economy and the more than 112,000 jobs that depend on trade with Mexico and Canada," said Fred Morgan, President and CEO of the State Chamber of Oklahoma.

"After facing several challenging years, Oklahoma farmers and ranchers can breathe a little easier today thanks to the Senate's final passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. The historic deal helps preserve our valuable relationships with our closest trade partners while also providing an estimated $2 billion increase in agricultural exports. Oklahoma Farm Bureau members are grateful for the work of Sen. Jim Inhofe who listened to the concerns of Oklahoma ag producers and worked tirelessly to help bring the deal across the finish line," said Rodd Moesel, President of the Oklahoma Farm Bureau.

"The Oklahoma Trucking Association appreciates Senator Inhofe's steadfast support of USMCA and the Oklahoma Trucking industry. For far too long, OTA trucking members have felt the impact of foreign companies taking away jobs and profits from American truckers. Senator Inhofe wisely recognized this issue in the original NAFTA and we are proud to see this new agreement will restrict this issue and ensure Mexican trucking carriers are held to the same standards as U.S. truckers," said Jim Newport, CEO of the Oklahoma Trucking Association.

"We commend Congressional leaders on the new USMCA agreement and appreciate Sen. Inhofe's steadfast support of fair trade along with his commitment to Oklahoma's manufacturing industry. Mexico and Canada are dynamic markets for Oklahoma goods and are the most substantial portion of our foreign sales. This new pact championed by Sen. Inhofe is a huge win for Oklahoma manufacturers and ensures the $2 billion in exports will continue to grow, bolstering our economy and supporting high-wage jobs in communities across the state. This stronger trade relationship with our neighboring countries allows us to better capitalize on our assets while preparing for success in an increasingly complex global environment," said Dave Rowland, President and CEO of the Oklahoma Manufacturing Alliance.