Inhofe, Armed Services Committee Prioritize Military Families, Force Resiliency During COVID-19 Briefing


The Senate Armed Services Committee, chaired by U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), today held its weekly briefing with the Department of Defense to receive updates on response to the coronavirus pandemic. Members focused their questions on how the Pentagon is protecting and supporting service members and their families and preserving force resiliency and readiness throughout this crisis. 

Briefers included: Virginia Penrod, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs; Dr. Elise Van Winkle, Executive Director, Office of Force Resiliency; Lernes Hebert, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy; Veronica Hinton, Principal Director for Civilian Personnel Policy; Kimberly Joiner, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy; Karin Orvis, Director, Defense Suicide Prevention Office; Maj. Gen. Lee E. Payne, Assistant Director for Combat Support, Defense Health Agency; and BG Dr. Paul Friedrichs, Joint Staff Surgeon.

Inhofe released the following statement after the briefing:

"As we work to stop the spread of COVID-19, testing is going to be key; this is true everywhere, including within our military. My Armed Services colleagues and I want to be sure the Department of Defense has a plan for testing and access to enough tests to maintain readiness and to protect the health of our service members and their families.

"I've said it many times -- the wellbeing of our military families is a readiness issue, and we need to make sure our troops know their families are well cared for throughout this time. I appreciated learning more about how the military is supporting our families at this time, and I encourage the Department to continue making this a priority.

"I continue to be grateful the Department is using its health resources to deliver supplies, construct alternate care facilities, and deploy its world-class medical professionals to help our nation."

This is the fourth weekly briefing the Senate Armed Services Committee has held during the COVID-19 outbreak. By regularly speaking with different parts of the department, Inhofe has maintained oversight over the various components of DOD response.