Inhofe, Armed Services Committee Focus on Oversight of Force Health Protection at DOD Briefing


The Senate Armed Services Committee, chaired by U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), today received a telephone briefing from the Department of Defense (DOD) on its response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 

During the Members' briefing, DOD officials updated committee members on what DOD is doing to protect the force and maintain readiness, among other topics.

Briefers included: Bob G. Salesses, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense Integration and Defense Support of Civil Authorities Brigadier General Paul Friedrichs, Joint Staff Surgeon; and Dr. Terry Rauch, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Readiness Policy and Oversight.

"Today, my fellow Armed Services members and I joined a conference call briefing with the Department of Defense on its response to the COVID-19 pandemic," Inhofe said. "As I've said many times before, and I know the Department agrees, our top priority is and must be protecting the health of our force, but we need to make sure the response is thorough, thoughtful and measured.  

"COVID-19 does not discriminate in terms of whom it sickens -- and every precautionary measure must be taken to protect our service members and members of the civilian workforce. Both national security risks and the health and safety of our troops must be considered, and unit commanders have been put in a difficult position as they balance force protection against mission requirements. I appreciated the opportunity to discuss the steps Secretary Esper and the services are taking. In particular, we talked through how DOD can avoid a situation like the one on the USS Theodore Roosevelt in the future, including getting information to better understand how this was able to happen in the first place. 

"I look forward to continuing regular check-ins with the Department of Defense, and I thank them for making oversight and accountability to our service members and the American people a priority."