Inhofe Announces $198 Million in Relief for Oklahoma Educational Institutions


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) announced today that the Department of Education will distribute more than $198 million in funding to the state of Oklahoma's educational institutions from the Education Stabilization Fund as authorized by the CARES Act. Of the funding provided to the state of Oklahoma, over $159 million will be allocated to the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) for higher education institutions to assist their students. From this funding, $79 million will be used to provide direct cash grants to students for expenses related to disruptions to their education due to the coronavirus outbreak.

In addition to the funds provided to higher education institutions, the Department of Education has also announced $39 million in emergency education block grant funding to the state of Oklahoma for the Governor's Emergency Education Relief Fund (GEERF). These funds provide Governor Stitt with the necessary flexibility to meet the needs of students, primary schools, secondary schools and postsecondary institutions across the state. With these announcements, the Department of Education has now fulfilled two of the three Education Stabilization Fund programs as directed by the CARES Act. Inhofe expects the department to announce the next round of funding, fulfilling the third requirement, which will be targeted to K-12 schools, in the coming weeks.

"This funding will go a long way in helping ensure faculty and students are properly cared for during this public health crisis. These institutions have had to completely shut down and work to provide continuity of education remotely. With this investment, we are equipping schools and universities with the funding and flexibility to continue their great work -- providing the best possible education to our future generations."

On March 25, Sen. Inhofe voted in favor of the CARES Act, legislation that provided a comprehensive response to the coronavirus crisis. President Trump signed the legislation into law on March 27.

The CARES Act supported students by building on existing steps the Department of Education took to support higher education students. Colleges and universities were given immediate regulatory flexibility so students' educations could continue online. The Secretary also provided student loan relief to tens of millions of borrowers and the CARES Act extends those benefits, ensuring federally backed student loans payments would be deferred, interest free, for six months. The Department also stopped all federal wage garnishments and collections actions for borrowers with federally held loans in default.