Inhofe Leads Delegation to Munich Security Conference


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, led a delegation to the Munich Security Conference on February 15, 2020. The delegation, which included Senator Rounds, Sen. Boozman, Sen. Cramer, Rep. Kelly and Rep. Walberg, conducted bilateral meetings with key leaders, including Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. Other meetings included the Norwegian Minister of Defense Frank Bakke Jensen, Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar of India and Greek Minister of Defense Nikos Panagiotopoulos.

"This year--more than in the past--our meetings at the Munich Security Conference highlighted the value of allies and partners as we focus on strategic competition with China and Russia. At every turn, we heard how China and Russia are increasingly present and assertive around the world. We also heard how are our allies and partners are making key contributions to shared security, and appreciate the strong leadership from President Trump and Secretary Esper. For example, our meetings highlighted that America's continued military presence in Africa enables us to work with our allies must to address security threats," said Inhofe.  

"When meeting with President Zelensky, we made clear that America's commitment to Ukraine is strong and unwavering. We discussed the importance of fighting corruption and advancing reforms, and commended the President's efforts so far. As we continue to support Ukraine as it pushes back Russian aggression, I also shared that we will continue bipartisan support for military assistance for Ukraine in the upcoming NDAA. 

Inhofe continued, "Our meeting with President Ghani was frank and productive. Just as he expressed his gratitude for the sacrifices of American troops, we expressed our support for Afghan security forces, who are carrying more of the burden than ever before. President Ghani shared with us the Afghan people's strong and continued support for America and NATO's military mission in the country. President Ghani also emphasized that Afghanistan is moving into a new future, one tied to greater economic growth and opportunity for the country's women and youth. This is a future worthy of American support."

"Maintaining strong relationships with our NATO allies is vital to confronting the security and economic challenges of the 21st century. The Munich Security Conference provided a valuable opportunity to bolster our partnerships and reinforce our commitment to protecting and advancing our common interests," Senator Boozman said.

"Our time with foreign leaders and officials in Munich was productive and informative," said Senator Cramer. "The feedback from every meeting confirmed the United States' standing in the world is as strong as ever."