Inhofe Statement on First Reported Coronavirus Case in Oklahoma


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) issued the following statement after the first coronavirus case in Oklahoma was confirmed today:

"While the news of the first coronavirus case in Oklahoma was confirmed today, I would like to remind Oklahomans that we are taking this seriously," Inhofe said. "President Trump and Governor Stitt are taking all necessary action to protect our state, and there is no reason to panic with this development. Yesterday in the Senate, we passed an emergency funding package that will ensure we have enough resources for testing, treatment, containment efforts, research and other needs associated with the coronavirus. The president signed that legislation this morning.

"This administration has implemented travel restrictions and created a task force, led by Vice President Pence, to coordinate responses among all relevant government agencies, as well as state and local governments. I would like to thank President Trump and Governor Stitt for their continued efforts in ensuring all Oklahomans are safe."

Inhofe voted in favor of the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, which passed the Senate yesterday. The emergency funding package provides more than $7.7 billion for the research and development of vaccinations, screening, treatment and other needs associated with the coronavirus. President Trump signed the spending bill earlier today.

What you should know

The United States is currently in the containment stage of the coronavirus. Healthcare professionals in the U.S. government are hard at work at treating individuals who have the virus and working to limit its spread to others. While we are doing the right things to mitigate the spread, you and your family should still take the coronavirus seriously.

The most important thing to remember is to take the right precautions--

Avoid close contact with people who are sick.Wash your hands with soap and water.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Stay home when you are sick.Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.If you're sick, call your healthcare provider first to describe symptoms and seek their guidance on treatment.