Inhofe Votes for Pro-Life Bills


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) today voted in favor of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. Inhofe is an original cosponsor of both bills. Senate Democrats blocked both pieces of legislation.

"I am proud to vote in favor of the two pro-life bills we considered in the Senate today," Inhofe said. "The fight to defend unborn babies--the most vulnerable of our entire population--is the single greatest moral issue in the United States today. While the majority of my Republican colleagues supported these bills, I am disappointed it is not a universal position. Support in the United States for the pro-life position is getting stronger each year, and one day we will be vindicated.

"The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act would ensure that a baby who survives an abortion will receive the same treatment as any child naturally born premature at the same age, without prescribing any particular form of treatment. The need for these protections has become even clearer as states like New York and Illinois allow abortion for virtually any reason up until the point of birth and support infanticide by removing protections for infants born alive after a failed abortion.

"Senate Democrats also voted against the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which bans abortion after 20 weeks--when we know that babies can feel pain. The United States is one of only seven countries that permits abortion after 20 weeks--or five months of pregnancy. Unfortunately, my colleagues squandered an opportunity to remove us from a list that includes China and North Korea--who are notorious for their lack of value for human life--and voted against the unborn."

The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would make it illegal for any person to perform, or attempt to perform, an abortion without first making a determination of the probable post-fertilization age of the unborn child. If the post-fertilization age of the unborn child is determined to be 20 weeks or greater, an abortion shall not be performed, unless it is necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman or if the pregnancy is the result of rape.

The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act would ensure that a baby who survives an abortion will receive the same treatment as any child naturally born premature at the same age, without prescribing any particular form of treatment.

In addition to supporting the above legislation, Inhofe led 13 of his colleagues in introducing the Down Syndrome Discrimination by Abortion Prohibition Act, which would prohibit abortion based on an unborn child having Down syndrome.

Inhofe is also supportive of the following pro-life legislation, which includes several pro-life priorities, such as preventing taxpayer funding from going toward abortion through providers like Planned Parenthood.

The Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act would prevent Title X funding from going to abortions.The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act would establish a government-wide ban on taxpayer subsidies for abortion.The Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act would prohibit taking minors across state lines to circumvent laws requiring parents' involvement in abortion decisions.The Protecting Funding for Women's Health Care Act would prohibit federal funding of Planned Parenthood while protecting federal funding for critical health services for women.The Life at Conception Act would recognize life begins at conception.The Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act would prohibit abortions being sought based on the child's sex.The Conscience Protection Act would prevent the government from discriminating against a health care provider that chooses not to participate in abortion.The Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance Act would codify President Trump's Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance policy (Mexico City policy) and ensures that no global health funds can go toward foreign NGOs that perform or promote abortion.S. Res. 20 is a resolution expressing that PLGHA should be made permanent.The Dismemberment Abortion Ban Act would ban this abortion method. The Patients First Act would promote stem cell research without creating or destroying human embryos.The Ensuring Accurate and Complete Abortion Data Reporting Act would require states to report abortion data to the CDC. The Dignity for Aborted Children Act would enforce guidelines for the dignified handling of aborted fetal remains and implement penalties for failing to respect the sanctity of human remains.The SAVE Moms and Babies Act would prevent the FDA from approving new chemical abortion drugs and prevents labeling changes on already-approved abortion drugs.The Abortion is not Health Care Act would remove abortion's tax deductible status.The Unborn Child Support Act would allow a mother to receive child support when the baby is in the womb.The Teleabortion Prevention Act would make it a federal offense for a doctor to perform a mail order abortion.The Pregnant Women Health and Safety Act would require abortion doctors to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 15 miles of the clinic and increase mandated safety standards for abortion clinics.In January, Inhofe received an A Rating on the Susan B. Anthony List National Pro-Life Scorecard, their highest rating, for the 116th Congress.