Inhofe Joins Colleagues in Resolution Calling on Olympic Committee to Move 2022 Olympic Games Out of Communist China


Today, U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) joined Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fl.) to introduce a bipartisan resolution calling on the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to move the 2022 Winter Olympics out of Communist China and rebid it to a country that respects human rights. This resolution was also sponsored by Sens. Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Mike Braun (R-Ind.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.).

Sen. Jim Inhofe said, "The Chinese Communist Party continues to oppress the Chinese people--we've seen it blatantly in the Xinjiang "reeduction" camps as well as in Hong Kong. I see no reason to condone the Party's actions by allowing the 2022 Winter Olympics to take place in Beijing. I am proud to join Sen. Rick Scott in introducing this resolution calling on the International Olympic Committee to move the 2022 Winter Olympics out of Communist China, and relocate the games to a country where the government respects the dignity and human rights of all people."

Senator Rick Scott said, "Communist China should not be allowed to host the 2022 Olympic Games while simultaneously running concentration camps, violating human rights and oppressing the people of Hong Kong. The Olympic Games are an incredible opportunity to allow the world's best athletes to represent their countries and unite our nations, and should not be hosted by one of the world's worst human rights abusers. Today, the Senate is sending a clear message to the IOC: stand up for freedom and urge Communist China to do the right thing, or find a new home for the 2022 Olympic Games. It's not about politics, it's about human rights."

Sen. Ed Markey said, "China's human rights abuses and crackdown on democracy leave it well short of the Olympic Charter standard that calls for the preservation of human dignity and denounces discrimination of any kind. I stand in solidarity with those oppressed by the Communist Party of China and call for a rebid of the 2022 Games unless Beijing changes course and addresses its violations of fundamental rights. The International Olympic Committee need not wait until 2024 to place stronger emphasis on human rights."

See the resolution here.