Inhofe Votes for Coronavirus Emergency Funding Package


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe voted in favor of the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, which passed the Senate today. The emergency funding package provides more than $7.7 billion for the research and development of vaccinations, screening, treatment and other needs associated with the coronavirus.

"I am glad we could come together and pass this emergency funding package today in the Senate that will ensure we have enough resources for containment efforts, research and development of vaccinations, screening, treatment and other needs associated with the coronavirus," Inhofe said. "To all of my fellow Oklahomans, I know you're hearing a lot about the coronavirus in the media and I want to reassure you that President Trump is taking all immediate and necessary measures to protect the American people. This administration has implemented travel restrictions and created a task force, led by Vice President Pence, to coordinate responses among all relevant government agencies, like the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Defense, the Centers for Disease Control, the National Institute of Health, and state and local governments."

What you should know

The United States is currently in the containment stage of the coronavirus. Healthcare professionals in the U.S. government are hard at work at treating individuals who have the virus and working to limit its spread to others. While we are doing the right things to mitigate the spread, you and your family should still take the coronavirus seriously.

The most important thing to remember is to take the right precautions--

Avoid close contact with people who are sick.Wash your hands with soap and water.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Stay home when you are sick.Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.If you're sick, call your healthcare provider first to describe symptoms and seek their guidance on treatment.