Inhofe Speaks in Support of Peaceful Protests, Military's Role


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, spoke on the Senate floor today on recent protest activity across the nation, offering support to those peacefully protesting against injustice and hate, while correcting the record on the U.S. military's role maintaining peaceful order. 

As Prepared for Delivery: 

This has been a trying time for our nation. I want to begin with the obvious. What happened to George Floyd was a crime. It was horrible.  

It has caused a groundswell -- people joining together to stand against injustice and hate, not just for George Floyd, but for Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others. These protests are meaningful and positive events, standing up for dignity and respect for all people.  

Protesting is a cherished part of our democratic society, enshrined in the First Amendment, and the rights of peaceful protest should be supported and celebrated. Period.

But those protests are not the same as the dangerous, destructive activity we're seeing in many of our cities. Looting, arson and vandalism aren't a part of peaceful protest, and we cannot allow that to continue. Emotions are high. Tensions are high -- that's understandable. We need law and order if we're going to move forward, and I think every reasonable person agrees with that.  

We're trying to have the tough conversations we need to have about inequality, but we're facing a lot of misinformation--especially when it comes to our military. 

If we let this misinformation spread, it's just going to make things worse. So I'd like to correct the record -- and I hope every American hears, understands, and believes these words. 

Here's what's happening right now: The National Guard has not been federalized for response. Active-duty troops have not been sent into any city, including DC. Local and state law enforcement are being supported by National Guard, but only when requested by the state. The Department of Defense believes that, by and large, they are doing a fine job. 

Now, our military is prepared to step in if the situation deteriorates dramatically, and only if our President finds he has to step in -- and, to be crystal clear, the President hasn't done that yet. I ask my fellow Americans to slow down and understand what will happen if, and only if, the President does so. 

It doesn't mean that our streets will immediately be flooded with uniformed and armed troops.  There's a process that's got to be followed -- just as it was in 1992 during the LA riots, in 1989 after Hurricane Hugo, and every time before that. First, the President must issue a proclamation ordering any insurgents to disperse within a set period of time.  It means that our nation's military and security leaders, including our commander-in-chief, have determined that situation is deteriorating in a way that local officials can't manage on their own. 

We're not there right now -- and I hope we don't get there. This would only be as a last resort. But if we do, I am confident that this decision will be made with the advice of top civilian and military officials, who were all confirmed with wide bipartisan support. 

I'd like to say a little something about civil-military relations. This is something I care a lot about as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. In particular, I want to speak about General Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In this job, General Milley is the President's top military advisor -- but don't forget, he doesn't have any command authority over our military forces. 

There's been a lot of criticism about him wearing his battle-dress uniform -- his BDU, as it's called -- on Monday when the President spoke, so here's another area I want to set the record straight. General Milley was getting ready to visit with troops around D.C. -- troops who were also in their BDUs -- when he was called to the White House. 

I think everyone can agree that we want that voice at the table in situations like this, providing his best military advice -- as is his statutory authority and responsibility. On Monday, after General Milley walked outside with the President, he assessed the situation and immediately removed himself.

This isn't speculation on my part -- I had a conversation with him yesterday and he told me. He also told me that he intends to honor his oath and uphold the delicate balance between civilians and the military, and I fully believe him. The accusations against General Milley are especially troubling to me because I know from working with him his commitment to our nation, to the Constitution, and to the American people -- to keep them safe and give his best military advice. It's striking below the belt to make these accusations and scare the American people. 

It's my duty as chairman of the Armed Services Committee to maintain strong oversight over issues like this. I assure you, I'm watching, and right now our military is doing what they always have done, and that's their duty, within the law and constitutional limits. That's exactly what General Milley has done and is doing. 

Right now, we're seeing a lot of finger pointing and blame going around--some warranted, some not.

We owe it to ourselves and our neighbors to believe in the best of each other, not assume the worst. We need to recognize everyone's inherent value and dignity and treat each other with respect and dignity, as Christ calls us to do. 

Only then can we truly listen with both our ears and our hearts.