Inhofe, Armed Services Committee Maintain Coronavirus Oversight


The Senate Armed Services Committee, chaired by U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), held a telephone briefing yesterday with the Department of Defense to review and discuss the department's ongoing response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

During the call, committee members focused on the Department's acquisition and sustainment efforts and support for the defense industrial base, as well as overall force health.

Ellen Lord, Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, and Dr. David Smith, Acting Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Health Affairs, led the briefing.

"I'm heartened to see all the ways the Department of Defense is stepping up in our nation's time of need. The Army Corps of Engineers are building medical facilities, and existing contracts are being put to good use to manufacture and distribute personal protective equipment and other medical equipment. I hope other federal agencies, like the Department of Health and Human Services and FEMA, more fully leverage the Pentagon's authorities, skills and tools to fight this disease.

"It's critical that the Department of Defense continue working across the government, specifically with the Department of the Treasury on loans, and with the defense industrial base companies on contracts to ensure that eligible businesses get access to much-needed federal relief. In the area of contracts, I'm glad to see prime contractors like Lockheed Martin taking significant steps to flow payments to its subcontractors and suppliers, recognizing that small businesses are particularly vulnerable at this time.

"The defense industrial base plays a key role in response and recovery -- not only supporting the direct response to COVID-19, but also continuing to bolster both our national security and economy. As we look to the future, when we're through this thing, we've got to reevaluate our brittle supply chain and our reliance on Chinese manufacturing and suppliers."