Inhofe Announces $160 Million in Additional Relief for Oklahoma Educational Institutions


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) announced today that the Department of Education will distribute an additional $160 million to the state of Oklahoma's K-12 educational institutions from the Education Stabilization Fund as authorized by the CARES Act. Education leaders will have the flexibility to use funds from the Elementary and Secondary School Education Relief Fund (ESSER Fund) for immediate needs, such as tools and resources for distance education, ensuring student health and safety and developing and implementing plans for the next school year. Funds will be distributed through the Oklahoma State Department of Education.

This news comes after Inhofe recently announced $198 million in Department of Education funding to the state of Oklahoma's educational institutions from the Education Stabilization Fund as authorized by the CARES Act.

Today's third, and final, phase of funding brings the total state allocation from CARES Education Stabilization Fund to more than $359 million.

"Oklahoma's teachers have been working overtime to ensure our students continue to receive a valuable education in these tough conditions," Inhofe said. "This additional funding will not only allow teachers to address immediate needs associated with the coronavirus, but it will also enable them to better plan for the upcoming school year. As many of us adapt to working remotely for the time being, extra stress has been put on students, teachers and parents as they navigate at home learning. I hope this funding will help ease some of their burdens."

On April 21, the Paycheck Protection Program Increase Act of 2020, a second comprehensive coronavirus relief package, passed the Senate by voice vote. Inhofe supported the legislation.

On March 25, Inhofe voted in favor of the CARES Act, legislation that provided a comprehensive response to the coronavirus crisis. President Trump signed the legislation into law on March 27.

The CARES Act supported students by building on existing steps the Department of Education took to support higher education students. Colleges and universities were given immediate regulatory flexibility so students' educations could continue online. The Secretary also provided student loan relief to tens of millions of borrowers and the CARES Act extends those benefits, ensuring federally backed student loans payments would be deferred, interest free, for six months. The Department also stopped all federal wage garnishments and collections actions for borrowers with federally held loans in default.

The Department of Education implemented a streamlined process for states to apply for and receive this critical funding by cutting red tape and removing unnecessary delays. SEAs have until July 1, 2020, to apply for ESSER funds by submitting a simple signed Certification and Agreement form to ESSERF@ed.gov. The Department intends to process each submitted form within three business days of receipt.