Inhofe, Lankford, Hern Statement on Staff Sgt. Marshal Roberts


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator James Lankford (R-Okla.) and Congressman Kevin Hern (OK-01), expressed deep sadness over the loss of two American service members in Iraq on Wednesday, including Staff Sergeant Marshal Roberts from the 219th Engineering Installation Squadron, a unit of the 138th Fighter Wing of the Oklahoma National Guard.  

"On Wednesday night, we lost an American hero: Staff Sergeant Marshal Roberts of Owasso, Oklahoma," Inhofe said. "Kay and I are praying for his wife, Krissy, as well as his family, friends and the entire Oklahoma National Guard. It is a somber reminder that the enemy Sgt. Roberts fought against is real and seeks to harm our nation and people. I am humbled he made the ultimate sacrifice to protect us back here at home. We will not forget it. We are also praying for the swift recovery of the service members injured in Wednesday's attack, including a member of the Oklahoma National Guard." 

"Wednesday's news is a painful reminder that our sons and daughters, husbands and wives, friends and neighbors are still fighting every day to protect us across the world," said Lankford. "To lose a member of our military is never easy; to lose a neighbor is even harder. Cindy and I pray for the family of the loss of Oklahoma airman Staff Sergeant Marshal Roberts in Iraq. As they walk through this incredibly hard time we will all walk with them. We also pray for the members who were injured in the attack, including another member of the 138th. We pray for their full recovery." 

"I was heartbroken to hear that we lost an Oklahoman this week during an attack on an American base in Iraq," said Rep. Hern. "Staff Sergeant Marshal Roberts is remembered a hero and patriot, a man who chose to fight for the freedoms that we hold dear, who willingly walked into the path of danger so that Americans at home were safe. We can never repay that debt. His wife, Krissy, child, and loved ones, as well as the Oklahoma National Guard and our Tulsa community, are in my prayers as we mourn the loss of a father, husband, neighbor, and friend. In addition to the loss of Sergeant Marshall, many service members sustained injuries in the attack, including a member of the Oklahoma National Guard. I pray for their swift recoveries and offer my deepest gratitude for their service to our nation."