Inhofe Questions Witness at Senate Hearing on Small Business


U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe questioned Mr. Joe Shamess, Co-Founder, Flags of Valor today at a Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee Hearing titled: Perspectives from Main Street: COVID-19's Impact on Small Business.

Inhofe: Thank you very much Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief, but I've become a real fan of this Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). It's been very successful.

Mr. Shamess, it's nice that I can talk to someone's who live and present--I appreciate that. I would like to thank you for your service to our country and to the economy. Expanding a two-person operation to a national manufacturing company--is no small feat and I greatly appreciate your work. Your testimony highlights the benefits of the PPP loan provided to your business and employees. Similarly, in my state of Oklahoma, in the town of Owasso, located just north of Tulsa, the Owasso Auto Care was able to receive this SBA loan and keep their four employees on payroll. It was already doomed they thought at that time. While these two operations may vary in size and mission--you both have one thing in common, that is the success from this program. Can you discuss some of the ways your business was able to utilize this program and the fact that large and small business can use it. And, what you envision as next steps for businesses like yours and our Owasso Auto Care?

Shamess: Thank you senator for the question. I will make one opening comment. I had the pleasure of serving in the Air Force in your state at Vance Air Force Base under the 71st Flying Training Wing. That was a great privilege. I'm a big fan of Oklahoma--an amazing state.

Inhofe: What year were you there?

Shamess: I was there from 2004 through 2009.

Inhofe: I have every reason to believe that you and I met around the 2005 time-frame. I chair the Senate Armed Services Committee and at that time I was not chairman but I was very active in it. We've done a great job at Vance. I don't know whether you have seen some of the things recently that they've been doing but that's a real success story.

Shamess: Yes sir.

To answer your question. There is a hybrid approach that is necessary here. I feel like we have to be somewhat careful about the level of funding that is available now or may be available in the future. When we entered the COVID-19 pandemic in early March, our position was--there is no help coming and we have to figure this out. We"re blessed to have an incredible team that is very devoted to that. And so, everything that came later with the Paycheck Protection Program and the other assistance that's being offered was fantastic. But, there's still a burden on small businesses to lead their organizations and to take care of their people. It's not something that can be solved with a limitless number of dollars or programs. We have a responsibility. I have a responsibility to care for my employees and to innovate and to find ways to be successful in an economy that none of us have ever experienced before.

There is still economic activity taking place--it's growing and I can validate that inside our organization and I hope that the business you're referencing is starting to feel that as well. What I would say is a challenge to all of us small business owners is to be as disciplined as we possibly can, take care of our people and start finding ways that we can function as best as possible in this environment. Then, anything that comes from this panel, from this committee, from the federal government is only going to give us that greater durability that bridge that we need to get to the other side.

Inhofe: That actually approaches the only other question I had to ask you and that is what are some of the aspects Congress should keep in mind as we go forward. While you've given us some good ideas, it might be a good idea Mr. Chairman, if he were to give us a white paper on some specific things to look for and why--judging from your experiences. Any comments on that?

Shamess: Specific to steps that can be taken inside small business sir?

Inhofe: Yes.

Shamess: Well, I can tell you what happened with us. We rallied our entire team very early on. We've made some really tough decisions. There is this sense of sacrifice, especially for those in uniform that is a shared sacrifice in that everyone has to row together.

I'm about to be out of time but I will share a sentiment. I was at Dover receiving the remains of one of my friends that was killed overseas and his father was there with me who was a Vietnam veteran. He said, "when joy is shared it is multiplied and when sorrow is shared it is divided." I think about that in the context of where we sit today and I think companies have to think the same way. The funding is great but if I cannot sustain a business that's relevant today and potentially in six months then I'm not saving anything. It's a shared sacrifice inside those organizations I think. Everyone has to take a hit. In our organization, we all did. We had to furlough some of our team--we're happy to have them back. Everyone else took a 50 percent decrease in compensation. That is on top of losing two-thirds of our revenue. That was what we had to do to just to say I can make it to the end of March--I can make it to April 15th. What I would say, and I'm happy to put much of this in writing and share it with you sir, is we have an obligation to lead inside of our organizations and strive to get to the other side in the best position we can so we can still be relevant.

Inhofe: That would be great. That would be very helpful. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.