MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, we are getting a lot of redundancy around  here, but it is worth it. I have been sitting here for several hours  now listening to my colleagues. I don't recall, in the 25 years I have  been here, seeing this happening, over and over. And everything that is  said is so significant. 

  The Senator from Alaska talked about the fact that we are all in this  together. We are, and things were going well for a while. I am actually  going to, I think, end with a little bit of optimism right now. I may  be the only one doing that, because I think something is going to  happen tonight. I think it has to happen tonight. We don't have the  luxury of waiting. 

  Now, I have never seen a crisis like this. We are not used to dealing  with crises. Gosh, we have been through wars. We have been through  things that we have considered to be crises. This is a different  dimension. We are talking about people who are dying 

  As for the coronavirus, we all know where it came from: Wuhan in  China. It has caused global panic. By the way, they call it a pandemic.  There is a reason for that, because this isn't just something happening  in the United States of America. This is happening all over the world-- everywhere. No one is immune. This is something that we don't have a  cure for right now. 

  The Senator from Indiana kept using the word ``emergency.'' This is  an emergency. It is an emergency unlike any that we have seen so far.  It is something that is highly contagious, something that we can't do  anything about. No one is immune. 

  As of Sunday, according to the World Health Organization, there were  292,000 cases globally and almost 13,000 deaths. Let me put that in a  different perspective because I have had the honor, in the last several  days--and I am talking about including the weekend--of talking to  people in Oklahoma. 

  I think, this morning, we talked to every single radio, television,  and newspaper in the State. I always start my speeches, to make sure  everyone understands, with why this is not anything we have done  before, why it is so significant. I explain to people: Today is the  23rd. Let's take the 22nd and the 21st. If you go back to the 21st--or  let's say March 20, which was last Friday--we had, at that time,  210,000 cases that were known. They have been infected. Two days later,  it was 322,000. 

  Now look at the ones who have died. On March 20, it was 8,800 people  died. But 2 days after that, it was 13,714. Now, that is globally. 

  Look at here in the United States of America. On March 20, there were  10,500 people who contracted it, and then, just 2 days later, it was  31,000. It tripled in 2 days. That is what we are facing right now. On  the deaths, they tripled--the same thing: 150 deaths on March 20, and  390 deaths on the 22nd, 2 days later. 

  Now, that puts it in a different category. We have never had anything  like that to talk about. The reason I do that, when I am talking to  people in Oklahoma, is that, like a lot of people, I have been in this  position before, when it looks like we are overreacting and we look  like we are creating a crisis--something that hasn't happened before.  But, in this case, this is a crisis. So it is important. There are a  lot of people around who are thinking: Well, you know, this is kind of  manufactured. It is not that big of a deal. 

  In this case, it is. So, at the same time, we have thousands of  Americans who are losing their jobs. We have been listening to this on  the floor for a long period of time, and sometimes it is important to  be redundant, to talk about these things, about people who are being  forced to shut down without any sense when they might reopen. 

  You are spared probably 15 minutes or so of the examples that I had  in my State of Oklahoma--bakeries and others. The Senator from Indiana  did a good job, and I think it would be unnecessary to go over all of  that. We all have those stories. There is not a Member--Democrat or  Republican--in this body who has not had these experiences and who  could talk about the experiences. 

  So we started working. This is going to sound pretty phony when I say  this, but I was so proud, and I talked about how proud I was of the  Democrats because, until just yesterday, we were all working together.  We were having our meetings. I was with Mitch McConnell, and he was  showing the progress we were having. The Democrats were cooperating. We  really thought really good things were going to happen. We really  believed that. 

  So we have been working around the clock in bipartisan negotiations,  and we believed that this weekend substantial progress was being made  on a comprehensive phase 3. 

  Now, let's keep in mind that this is phase 3 that we are talking  about now. This is the one that I anticipate tonight we will vote  successfully on. We have to do that. If we don't do it, people are  going to die. This is not like it is going to cost so much money or  some people are going to be inconvenienced. People are dying. 

  So we had these bipartisan negotiations, and I thought we were doing  great work. While the Senate has been working here on solutions to this  crisis, the Democrat House has been on recess. I am not really  concerned. If they feel they can do that, that is fine. 

  But that didn't stop the Speaker of the House, and this is where the  problem came in. See, everything was great until last night, up until  the vote time. We were going to vote at 6 last night, and we thought we  were going to be successful in that vote at 6 last night. 

  What we didn't know is that the Speaker came back, even though they  are on recess, and she threw a wrench into everything that we are  doing, all the bipartisan talks. She came to town and decided to make  this a partisan exercise. House Democrats are now demanding that the  far-left wish of radical policies be included in what is otherwise a  bipartisan agreement. 

  I think their feeling was this: We are going to spend all this money.  We have to get everything in there. If it has nothing to do with the  crisis, if it has nothing to do with the virus, then, this is the time  to do it. So the idea was that they wanted to spend more. 

  I think the Senator from Indiana did a good job of talking about some  of the provisions that we are talking about, but I want to ask: Is  there anybody out there right now who is a conservative? Is there  anyone out there who has really kept track of what kind of spending we  are talking about here? 

  We have never seen anything like it. Remember phase 1. That was the  $8.3 billion emergency supplemental. That was for State and local  response and testing kits, and that is fine. People understood that.  That was $8.3 billion in phase 1. 

  Phase 2 came along. By the way, I have to admit that this was the one  phase I voted against for this reason: Oklahoma is a little different  than a lot of other States. We have a larger number of small businesses  in Oklahoma than most other States have, and they are the ones we have  been talking to. We have been talking to them because they are going to  be recognizing that, after all the efforts they have made in their  careers and what they have done, they are going to go out of business. 

  So one of the things they said that had to be corrected was found in  phase 2. In phase 2, it says there that, when they mandate small  business do things like paid leave and other expenses, it is fine for  them to go ahead and do that if the Federal Government is going to  refund the expenses for that. And they were going to do it, but not for  several weeks. So our position was--those of us who had a lot of small  businesses--that we want to make sure that, when phase 3 comes, we have  a provision in there that will change that, in the event that you end  up having to pay for mandated things--paid leave and other things for  your employees. That is great. It is great that you are doing it  because there is no other way in this crisis we are in the middle of  that they can do it. But they are going to change it. So, in this thing  that we are going to be voting on, hopefully, tonight--and I think we  are--it is going to change it so that they will be reimbursed when that  time comes. 

  Now, those who are conservatives out there, I want you to keep track  of what we are talking about here. Get a pencil and paper out. Write  these things down. I want you to know what we are talking about. 

  The total amount of this phase 3 is going to be somewhere around $1.6  trillion. That is a ``t'' we are talking about--not billion. This is a  trillion. 

  If you look at the things that are in there, like the major problems  and the corrections that were made in phase 2, that is a part of this  that is going on. 

  For small businesses it is $350 billion. Write it down and add it up  as we go along here--$350 billion. That is to take care of some of the  problems that came out that weren't addressed in phase 2. We are  talking about loans up to $10 million to individuals through 2020. All  employers with up to 500 employees are eligible for this. The repayment  of that--these are loans, but that is going to be delayed for 1 year.  They don't have to pay back a portion of the loan, but most of that  would have to be paid back. That is $350 billion.  

  Healthcare provisions. We have $75 billion that goes to hospitals and  healthcare providers throughout the country. These are mostly for the  larger hospitals. You have a smaller amount--$275 million--that would  expand services to rural hospitals. 

  In the State of Oklahoma, we have a lot of rural hospitals. A lot of  our rural hospitals have gone under. 

  I can remember one time, back when Bill Clinton was the President, we  had this great thing, and all my conservative friends were voting to  support this. This was a budget balance amendment that would bring down  the deficit, but it was doing it on the backs of rural hospitals. At  that time, I was ranked as the most conservative Member in the U.S.  Senate, and I voted against it. All of my conservative friends said:  Wait a minute; how can you do that? We can do that because in the State  of Oklahoma, we have to take care of our rural hospitals. 

  That is in there--$275 million. Add it up. Write it down. 

  There is $3.5 billion for vaccine development. That has to be done.  We have to find a cure for this. Every day, you hear new ideas coming  along. Is it the same thing that can be done for malaria? Is it the  same thing that can be done for other problems? Again, the cost is  there. We are going to have to do that. That is $3.5 billion. 

  There is a $2 billion item for a national security stockpile. How  many people know that there is such a thing as a national security  stockpile? They don't know. I am a Member of the U.S. Senate, and I  can't even tell you where it is. The reason I can't is because it is  classified. People are not supposed to know where it is. Nonetheless,  there are things like masks, gowns, ventilators, and that type of  thing. It is a smaller amount--only $2 billion--but write it down, and  put it in there. 

  There is $500 billion for support of individuals. This is the one I  hear mostly about from conservatives. Conservatives, listen carefully.  There is going to be a cash payment to individuals of $1,200--$1,200.  Here is a check for $1,200. That would be for people in categories  where they--they are not wealthy people. If they are married, it  wouldn't be $1,200; it would be $2,400. That is per individual. If they  have kids, for each kid, it would be $500 additional. 

  That is out there, and that is a part of this thing that a lot of  people and particularly conservatives look at and don't like. This is  different. This is different from anything else we have done before. We  are trying to survive right now. People are dying every day. I hope I  don't have to go out and repeat what we started out with on how many  people are dying every day. 

  Unemployment benefits. Think of the cost of that--39 weeks of  unemployment benefits for the coronavirus job losses. In addition to  that, they have benefits that increase by $600 a week. Usually, it is  the States that pay for it. The States can't do it. 

  My State of Oklahoma--we have a great Governor in Oklahoma, Kevin  Stitt. Yet he is not able to do that. We never anticipated the expenses  we are going to have. We never anticipated what has happened to our  income--the revenues that come into the State that we have always  expected since statehood in Oklahoma, which was not that long ago  compared to other States. That is something we know the cost of, and we  have never had to have the loss of revenue in the State of Oklahoma  like we are having today. 

  Unemployment benefits. There is 39 weeks of unemployment benefits for  the job losses on coronavirus. We are talking about, on unemployment  benefits, $600 a week. As I said, normally that is paid for by the  State but not in this case. 

  Emergency loans for distressed industries in States: $500 billion in  total. People are talking about it. The speaker before me talked about  coming here in an empty airplane. I came in on Monday, a week ago  today, and there were only 14 people on a 737 airplane. Obviously, that  is something that can't continue. We also have to take care of the  cargo people. It is $50 billion for passenger air and $8 billion for  cargo air. 

  I say this because I want you to keep adding this stuff up. 

  Then you have another figure: $17 billion for national security  firms. 

  That leaves about $425 billion for the Treasury if they determine  something has been overlooked, so they can take care of that. 

  I started out with saying that I want the conservatives in America to  be listening because as of now, GovTrack  had me down as the most conservative Member of the U.S. Senate. So I  want people who have been adding this up to realize that even I, with  that background, am saying we are dealing with something we have never  dealt with before. 

  As we look and we see the tax credits for solar and some of these  things that were a part of the liberal agenda, this is something that  is going on, and that is what we are dealing with right now. 

  Everything was great until last night, and we were making great  headway. I was complimenting the Democrats on the cooperation we had,  and we can get that back again. But this temporary thing came in where  all of a sudden you have the Speaker of the House looking at her  liberal agenda and saying: Hey, there is a lot of money out there. I  have to get mine. Let's get in line and do that. 

  They want money for emissions standards. What has that got to do with  the virus? It means nothing. It has nothing to do with it. It is not  what Americans want, and these things have nothing to do with the  crisis. 

  I have to say that Pelosi is going to have to wake up and take this  seriously and stop playing political games. It has to happen now. It  has to happen tonight. Stop and calculate, every day we take, how many  people are dying during that time. We have never been faced with this  before. It is time for the political games to quit. They want us to  work together on this package. I think this is what we are going to be  doing. 

  For the last few weeks, I have been complimenting the Senate  Democrats for the efforts they are making, and all of that came to a  halt last night. I have been saying that this is a crisis where  Democrats and Republicans need to put politics aside. That is what is  going to have to happen. It has to happen--not, if we are lucky, next  week; it has to happen tonight. It was until 6 o'clock last night that  Senate Democrats were fully cooperating. That came across pretty quick. 

  Let me make one comment. I know there are a lot of ``hate Trump''  people out there. I see them all the time. I love the guy. He has done  a great job. When you stop and think about what he has done in this  country--and a lot of people are trying to build a case to some of the  ``hate Trump'' people that he didn't move on this quickly enough. Well,  he did. This thing happened in January. The first thing he did was stop  the traffic coming into this country from China. He didn't sit around  and wait; he did it immediately. And then he declared an emergency. All  of these things he did immediately. He had the daily press conferences.  I hope people are watching those. He is sitting back and having the top  medical people in America talking about the problems we are having. 

  This is kind of good news because we started this thing with the best  economy we have had in my lifetime. Even those individuals who are the  ``hate Trump'' people have to realize that the economy is the best  economy we have had. There are a couple of ways that he did it. First  of all, there was the big tax cut. There are two things that caused  this. One was the tax cut 

  I have a reason for bringing this up right now, at the conclusion of  my remarks; that is, when we had the tax cut, it wasn't a Republican  idea, it was a Democratic idea. That was John Kennedy. He was President  in 1964. What did he say? He said: You know, with the Great Society  coming on, we have to get more revenue. We have to get more revenue,  and the best way to increase your revenue is to decrease the marginal  tax rates. He did it, and it worked. Unfortunately, he died and could  not reap the benefits of that success. The revenues came in rapidly at  that time. 

  Other efforts for reducing taxes have been successful too. President  Trump coupled that with doing away with overregulation. I can remember  mine. I was very happy that mine was the first bill he signed. It was a  regulation. It was put together back during the previous  administration. It said: If you are a domestic oil or gas company and  you are competing for business with China or somebody else, you have to  give them your whole playbook on how you calculated your--well, that  was giving a distinct advantage. It was part of the war on fossil fuels  that the President had at that time. When this new President was  elected, we went ahead and passed a bill to repeal that regulation. So  the overregulation--that is what made it very successful. 

  He has appointed, right now, 190 new conservative judges. People who  are not conservatives, people who don't really feel that strongly about  the Constitution, are not excited about that--190 new conservative  judges. We haven't had that many judges in the first term of a  President in the history of this country--including, of course, two  Justices to the U.S. Supreme Court. 

  Pro-Israel. A lot of people don't like Israel. They are sympathetic  with others. But how many Presidents have said: We want to move the  capital of Israel to Jerusalem. He is the one who has done it. 

  We have rebuilt the military. How many people know this? I chair the  committee. It is called the Senate Armed Services Committee. I had the  responsibility of trying to get it rebuilt because we lost during the  Obama years. The last 5 years of Obama, he actually reduced the amount  of money for our defense by 25 percent. It had never happened before. 

  I say this because we now have a great advantage. We are going to  correct this. I think it is going to happen tonight. I am really  optimistic it will because if it doesn't, people are going to die.  People are dying right now. When that happens, when we get this rebuilt  and get beyond the crisis that we have all talked about today that we  are in the middle of right now, we are going to go back, and we will be  thanking God we started this whole thing with one of the best economies  we have ever had. 

  When we are looking at what is happening every day--and I am not  going to go back and repeat it, but we know it is happening--the number  of people who are dying on a daily basis, every day we put this off,  people are dying. For that reason, I really think that right now,  somewhere in the Capitol, in a room, we have Democrats and Republicans  who are going to come to some sort of an agreement. I don't care when  it is--it can be midnight; it can be anytime--it has to happen. We are  out of time. This is a crisis. We don't have the luxury of time. It is  going to have to be done. It is going to have to be done tonight. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT