Pentagon Officials Brief Inhofe, Armed Services Committee on COVID-19


The Senate Armed Services Committee, chaired by U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), today hosted a telephone briefing on the Department of Defense's (DOD) response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

During the Members' briefing, DOD officials updated committee members on what DOD is doing to protect the force and maintain readiness, how the DOD is supporting civil authorities, and what steps DOD is taking to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on the Defense Industrial Base, among other topics. 

Briefers included: Thomas McCaffery, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, Ellen Lord, Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, and Brigadier General Paul Friedrichs, Joint Staff Surgeon, as well as other DOD officials.

 Inhofe released the following statement after the briefing:

 "I'm glad the Armed Services Committee was able to connect directly with top Pentagon officials on how the Department of Defense is responding to and managing the COVID-19 crisis. The Department of Defense has been providing crucial assistance to the states and support for hospitals and health care workers, and I'm incredibly grateful that our world-class military is supporting the nation in our time of greatest need.

"As the situation onboard the USS Theodore Roosevelt has shown, our military is facing numerous and unique challenges as they balance preventing further spread of COVID-19 among our troops with trying to maintain readiness for national security missions. Our military service leaders need to set clear, unit-level policies to prevent service members from getting and transmitting COVID-19, and to support unit leaders with the tools and resources needed to respond to and mitigate outbreaks as they occur. We also need to keep a close eye on how this pandemic affects the workforce, DOD programs, small businesses and contractors to ensure our readiness isn't hindered for years to come. 

"While recognizing the need to continue critical military missions, the health and safety of our troops and their families must also be the top priority right now. I'm grateful the Department of Defense shares that priority, and I look forward to continuing to work with them so we can not only get through this, but come out of it stronger."