Unanimous Consent Request--S. Con. Res. 32


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE.  My good  friend from Massachusetts has said things that I know he actually  believes. He actually believes it. 

  Here we are with the President of the United States, who has given  us, over the objections of the gentleman, my friend from Massachusetts,  the best economy we have had maybe in my lifetime. You could argue  that. He has been able to do this two ways. One was a way that was  designed first by a Democrat--by John Kennedy--when he said that the  best way to increase revenue is to reduce marginal rates, and it  worked. Unfortunately, President Kennedy died after that. 

  Then we have the judges right now; we have, right now, over 170  judges. The unique thing about this is that these are judges who are  really constitutional judges. They have read the Constitution. That is  a unique notion. 

  Then the military--again, it is hard to sit here and listen to  someone who has that level--you hear so much hatred about this  President, but he is getting so many great things done. If you look at  the military, not many people know this--now, I chair the Armed  Services Committee--but we know that during the Obama administration,  during the last 5 years--this would have been from 2010 to 2015--he  reduced the budget for the military by 25 percent in constant dollars.  That has never happened before, even after World War I and World War II  when reductions took place. This was even more than that at a time when  you can argue it was the most dangerous time in history. So, here the  President has been responsible for that, yet there is so much hatred  out there.  

  The issue at hand now with Soleimani--this gentleman's resolution is  rather interesting. He is talking about cultural sites. I can remember  at the very beginning of the Trump administration, he went out of his  way to protect cultural sites. If you talk to different people of  minority religions in different countries, they talk about what he has  done to protect minority rights and sites--churches that have been torn  down. So here is a guy, our President, who has been right in the middle  of the very thing he has been accused of offending. 

  I note that Secretary Esper has made it quite clear that the United  States will follow the laws of armed conflict. 

  I appreciate the spirit of Senator Markey's resolution opposing  attacks on cultural sites. I agree with that. However, since our votes  carry the force of law, we need to be specific in our resolutions. It  is simply not true that attacking cultural sites is always a war crime  because there are many instances in which cultural sites have been used  as staging grounds for hostilities. We all know that. I can give you  examples for that. 

  President Clinton noted in his message to the Senate when he sent the  Hague cultural property convention over for ratification almost exactly  21 years ago on January 6, 1999, and I am quoting from it:  

       Cultural property is protected from intentional attacks so       long as it is not being used for military purposes or       otherwise may be regarded as a military objective. Misuse may       subject such property to attack.  

  That is a direct quote. 

  To be clear, I am not saying that we should target cultural sites,  but we certainly should not restrict our military's ability to defend  itself with rogue actors appropriating cultural sites for attacks or  strategic reasons. The use of a cultural site to construct IEDs, launch  missiles, or give snipers carte blanche against our forces is not  accounted for in this resolution. 

  I therefore object to this resolution on those grounds and hope that  the resolution will be amended to acknowledge an exception for when  cultural sites are used for staging military attacks or other improper  purposes. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I request a parliamentary inquiry. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. I am just asking, are we in a period of morning business? BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, 5 days ago, President Trump made the  boldest defensive policy decision of his Presidency to date. He  authorized the airstrike against the leader of Iran's Quds Force,  Soleimani, in accordance with his authorities as Commander in Chief of  the United States under article II of the Constitution. 

  Let's remember who Soleimani was. He was a terrorist. He was  responsible for training and funding militias across the Middle East-- the very militias that have targeted American personnel, our  facilities, and our partners for decades. He was behind the plot to  assassinate the Saudi Ambassador in Washington. That was back in 2011.  He has been doing this for a long time now. He was responsible for the  brutal repression of democratic protests within Iran. The terrorist  groups he armed and trained attacked our partners, including Israel. 

  Some of the people out there are more focused on criticizing  President Trump for taking out Soleimani than they are on protecting  American diplomats and American troops, conveniently forgetting that  Soleimani is the architect of Iran's terrorism and is responsible for  over 600 American deaths during the Iraqi war. When you stop and think  about how bad he is, it just doesn't get any worse than that.  

  We hear a lot recently about getting--I am very happy this President  was able to put together something and take out al-Baghdadi, but this  guy was worse than al-Baghdadi--you can argue, even worse than bin  Laden. 

  Their justification for criticizing the President for killing a  terrorist who wanted to destroy America--stated it many times--they  think it was reckless and represents a rush to war. Nothing could be  further from the truth. Just remember how we got where we are today. 

  Remember the Obama apology tour? I remember it well. When he first  came into office, he went around talking about--all around to our  adversaries and our friends alike talking about how bad America was. We  remember that, and it was a game changer for our behavior throughout  the world at that time. 

  First, American credibility hit an all-time low under the Obama  administration. President Obama set a redline in Syria. We all remember  that redline in Syria. That was because Syria was using weapons of mass  destruction, and President Obama said: If you continue to do that, we  will, you know, take you out--words to that effect. Well, then the  redline occurred when Syria started dropping weapons of mass  destruction on its own people there. Now, that kind of, I think,  changed the thinking of does America mean what they say? 

  To make matters worse, Obama signed a deal with Iran that didn't  address Iran's support for terrorism at all. It gave Iran over $100  billion, including $1.7 billion in cash. That was a John Kerry thing.  That was when John Kerry was the Secretary of State and President Obama  was the President. At that time, $1.7 billion was given to this  terrorist group in small bills, in foreign currency, for obvious  reasons--you don't have to stop and think that through--but then, in  addition, over $100 billion, and they even admitted at that time that  that could be used to expand terrorist activities. 

  One of the quotes in 2016--and I wrote it down, and I have used it  many times since then--I want you to listen to this. This is a quote  from John Kerry in 2016. He said: ``I think that some of it will end up  in the hands of the IRGC or other entities, some of which are labeled  terrorists.'' John Kerry also said: ``You know, to some degree, I'm not  going to sit here and tell you that every component of that can be  prevented.'' 

  So is it any wonder that Iran's regional aggression has only gotten  bolder and bolder? Look what has happened just in the last few months.  In May of this year, the Iranians attacked oil tankers with land mines.  We know about that. In June, they shot down a U.S. drone. It is a U.S.  drone. By the way, the cost of that was classified for a while. It is  not classified anymore. It was in excess of $100 million. That is what  they did. What did our President do? He sat back, and it didn't cause  him to get all excited. He handled it in a very diplomatic way. Then,  in September, they attacked the Saudi oilfields, taking some 50 percent  of Saudi Arabia's oil production capability offline. 

  President Trump showed incredible restraint after each one of those  provocations. He responded by increasing pressure on Iran--ramping up  economic sanctions and increasing their diplomatic isolation but not  anything that would suggest getting into any type of violence at that  time. 

  The President avoided military action while setting a very clear  redline. And what was the redline? He said: So long as you don't kill  an American--if you kill an American, we are going to come after you.  That is the redline. That is a redline that 95 percent of the people in  America agree with. 

  On December 27, Iran crossed that redline. Soleimani directed the  attack that killed an American and wounded four other servicemembers.  President Trump made it clear that there were consequences for spilling  American blood. He said: You kill an American, we are going to come  after you. And he is dead now. 

  Iran never believed there would be consequences. After all, Obama  never enforced his redline, and even President Trump was hesitant to  use military force. Only a day before the strike that killed Soleimani,  Iran's Supreme Leader tweeted at our President--in fact, you have to  read this. This is a tweet that came from him to the President: ``That  guy has tweeted that we see Iran responsible for the events in Baghdad  & we will respond to Iran. 1st: You can't do anything.'' This is a guy  telling our President ``You can't do anything.'' That is a quote. That  whole thing is a quote that came from him. They never believed  there would be consequences, but there were consequences.  

  Only a day before the strike, he said: ``You can't do anything.'' We  are talking about Iran's Supreme Leader tweeting to our President of  the United States ``You can't do anything.'' Obviously, they know  better than that. Well, President Trump could, and he did. He actually  restored America's credibility around the world. He showed that we mean  what we say. 

  You tell me what is reckless--they talk about this as reckless--a  President who means what he says and takes the protection of American  lives seriously or the fringe Democrats who want to tie the President's  hands and deny him the tools to uphold his constitutional  responsibility to defend our citizens? 

  You know, right now before this Senate, there is a resolution--not  the one my friend from Massachusetts was talking about but another one  that would take away a lot of the President's powers of negotiation. We  are talking about powers that are there as a result of article II of  the Constitution. That is what our President has--those constitutional  powers. Yet the President did not use military force until they crossed  the redline, and that is not a rush to war. 

  Listen to folks like former Democratic Senator Joe Lieberman. I  served here in the Senate with Senator Joe Lieberman. He is a Democrat.  I have one of the quotes that he said just recently in analyzing this.  I don't recall, but I think he was here probably about 25 years. This  is a quote from Democrat Joe Lieberman, a former Senator:  

       President Trump's order to take out Qasem Soleimani was       morally, constitutionally and strategically correct. It       deserves more bipartisan support than the begrudging or       negative reactions it has received thus far from my fellow       Democrats.  

  That is a quote. 

  We have another one from about the same timeframe, just recently.  Listen to Obama's Secretary of Homeland Security. I got to know him.  His name is Jeh Johnson. He was one who was eminently qualified for  that position and did a good job while he was there. This is what he  said about the action with Soleimani, which the President is being  accused of all these terrible things about. This is from the Secretary  of Homeland Security under President Obama. Jeh Johnson said:  

       He was a lawful military objective, and the president,       under his constitutional authority as commander in chief, had       ample domestic legal authority to take him out without an       additional congressional authorization. Whether he was a       terrorist or a general in a military force that was engaged       in armed attacks against our people, he was a lawful military       objective.  

  Everything that this President did was perfectly appropriate, and  these are two prominent Democrats who have come out with this. 

  So, you know, there are a lot of people out there who are pretty fed  up with what has been going on with attacking the president and  impeachment. I keep hearing that something is going to happen this week  in terms of sending over the articles, and I don't know--I have a  personal opinion that a lot of people don't agree with, I am sure. I  don't think even the Speaker knows right now just what is going to  happen. Are the articles going to come over? I think a lot of her far- left friends are saying: Yeah, let's go over there and let's continue  this thing. Let's continue beating up the President. But she also has a  bunch of her liberal friends who are saying: Look, the polls don't look  too good. People are onto this. They realize that there is a problem.  Maybe we shouldn't be sending them at all. 

  We will find out tomorrow. I understand there is a big Democratic  meeting. I am not invited. There is one over in the House. They are  going to make a determination, and we will all find out at that time  what is going to happen to the Articles of Impeachment. 

  But again, Soleimani was a lawful military objective--one that  President Trump took out under article II authority. More to the point,  nobody is  talking about war. Nobody is calling for an invasion. Nobody is calling  for a ramp-up. We all know what that looks like here, and it is very  plainly not what is happening. An airstrike is not war. Defending  American lives is not war. The President has made it clear that he does  not desire war, which is why he has continued to call for negotiations  with Iran to end the standoff, and that is the very thing some people  are trying to take away from him. It is not just a constitutional  right; it is a constitutional responsibility. 

  Nobody here wants war, but at the same time, nobody should want a  policy that would leave Americans vulnerable to the whims of Iran's  terrorist-supporting regime. If we do that, if we tie the President's  hands so that he cannot defend American lives, we leave ourselves more  vulnerable and therefore make war imminently more likely. That would be  reckless. 

  I would just be anxious for this time period to get by so we don't  have to be facing this on a daily basis. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT