Congratulating Nicklaus Children's Hospital on its 75th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696282/congratulating-nicklaus-childrens-hospital-on-its-75th-anniversary


Ms. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, Nicklaus Children's Hospital, formerly  known as Miami Children's Hospital until 2015, was founded in 1950 and  is South Florida's only free-standing pediatric hospital. Staffed by  850 physicians and more than 500 pediatric subspecialists, Nicklaus is  home to the largest pediatric teaching program in the southeastern  United States. It is renowned for excellence in all aspects of  pediatric medicine, and according to U.S. News & World Report, many of  Nicklaus's specialty programs ranking among the best in the Nation  since 2008.

The tremendous impact Nicklaus has is not felt in District 27 alone.  Nicklaus Children's Health System, the parent organization of Nicklaus  Children's Hospital, maintains an extensive network of outpatient and  urgent care centers in Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach, and Martin  Counties, serving families throughout Florida, the United States, and  more than 100 countries.

Not only does Nicklaus maintain an extensive network but it also  continues to ensure children and their families have access to the  specialized care they need and deserve. Nicklaus offers more than 30  pediatric specialties and operates leading institutes focused on  pediatric care, including the Helen and Jacob Shaham Cancer and Blood  Disorders Institute, the Brain Institute, the Heart Institute, and the  Orthopedic, Sports Medicine, and Spine Institute. And just last year,  the Hospital opened the Kenneth C. Griffin Surgical Tower, one of the  most innovative pediatric surgical facilities in the United States,  ensuring that children and adolescents can receive expert surgical care  without leaving Florida.

Additionally, Nicklaus has a top-of-the-line emergency transportation  fleet. The Hospital's LifeFlight Critical Care Transport Program, which  includes six ambulances, two helicopters, and fixed-wing jets equipped  for pediatric and neonatal patients, saves nearly 4,000 infants and  children annually across Florida, the Caribbean, and Central and South  America.

From Miami to the Panhandle, from the Panhandle to Central and South  America, from Central and South America to the Caribbean, Nicklaus is a  world-class institution that has provided care to so many for decades.  On the occasion of its 75th anniversary, I want to congratulate  Nicklaus Children's Hospital and commend its continued commitment to  advancing pediatric health care for children and families in Miami,  throughout the country, and across the world.