Recognizing Brain Cancer Awareness Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691692/recognizing-brain-cancer-awareness-month


Ms. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, May is Brain Cancer Awareness month, and  there are over 450,000 Americans living with primary malignant and non- malignant brain tumors in the United States. These range from primary  brain tumors called Gliomas, including Glioblastomas, to secondary  brain tumors that occur from metastases from other parts of the body.

Today, I want to recognize the work and efforts of a wonderful  patient advocacy organization--Voices Against Brain Cancer (VABC). The  organization is based in South Florida but assists families all over  our Nation. Founded by Mr. Mario Lichtenstein, VABC was started in  memory of his son, Gary Lichtenstein. Gary lost his fight with brain  cancer on October 1, 2003 at the age of 24, just as he was starting his  career in Chicago. After three months of radiation, Gary slipped into a  coma from which he did not recover. Soon after his passing, Gary's  family started Voices Against Brain Cancer Foundation to raise money  and awareness for the fight against the illness. As its founder so  bravely states, ``I couldn't save the life of my son, but perhaps I can  save the life of others''.

The mission of Voices Against Brain Cancer is to find a cure for  brain cancer by financing scientific research and increasing awareness  within the medical community, as well as supporting patients, their  families, and caregivers afflicted with this devastating disease.  Through the years, VABC has funded scientific research at over 50  institutions in the United States and across the globe including Johns  Hopkins, Cornell, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, and the University of  Miami.

Voices Against Brain Cancer also advocates for increased federal  funding for brain tumor research at the National Institutes of Health  and increased public awareness. The cure rate for most brain tumors is  significantly lower than it is for many other types of cancers, a  statistic VABC is driven to change. The organization champions specific  patient-centered programs such as Survivor Reboot Groups, which  supports brain cancer survivors, and the Caregiver Meet-Up, which  brings caregivers together, meeting virtually or in person to share  experiences. It also created the After the Storm Group, which is for  those who have lost a loved one; the C3 program--Connect, Create,  Collaborate which includes art, music, and yoga workshops, allowing  people to collaborate with others going through similar situations; and  finally Brain Cancer 101, an educational program.

Voices Against Brain Cancer has turned tragedy into purpose. As we  close out Brain Cancer Awareness Month, let us remember Gary  Lichtenstein and salute his family that has worked so hard to find more  effective treatments and a cure for this terrible disease.