Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025


Mr. President, I rise today to object to the motion made by my  colleague from Massachusetts.

We don't need to nationalize our elections. My Republican colleagues  and I have been fighting Democrats' attempts to nationalize our  elections for years now.

The States have the ability to run elections. My State of Florida is  actually a leader in election security and timeliness to the point that  my last election was called within minutes of polls closing.

My colleagues are only bringing this to the floor as an excuse to  score political points by attacking President Trump. President Trump  and Republicans are working to deliver on our promises to the American  people: securing our border, protecting communities and elections, and  bringing down the cost of living despite Democrats fighting us on every  turn.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. If my colleague from western Massachusetts  wants to defend democracy and protect elections, I offer him an  alternative that I, and a majority of Americans, would support. There  should be some commonsense, national standards in place to ensure  Americans know their elections are free and fair and that their votes  are not diluted. That includes requiring voter ID, something 83 percent  of Americans support.

You need an ID to board an airplane, buy certain medicines, apply for  jobs and bank accounts, check into hotels, rent a car, donate blood,  and purchase a lottery ticket. Why should voting in our elections have  a lower verification standard than purchasing a lottery ticket? Surely,  we can also agree that requiring proof of citizenship makes sense. And  if a State has a noncitizen on the voter rolls, they should be removed.

Now, the minority leader thinks that is racist to make people prove  citizenship to vote. Just remember, every Member of this body and all  of our friends in the House had to prove their citizenship to take  office. Yes, even my colleague from Massachusetts had to prove he was  an American citizen to take his seat in the U.S. Senate and represent  the good people of his State.

So are the requirements for being elected to the U.S. Congress  racist? I cannot imagine the Senator from Massachusetts believes that  to be true. We are all here to represent U.S. citizens, and we should  be certain that it is only U.S. citizens who are able to cast a vote  for any of us to be here.

The SAVE America Act puts these commonsense ideas into place to make  our elections more secure and fair. I invite my colleagues to support  my UC and pass the SAVE America Act. Why wouldn't we want to make  certain that elections in the United States of America are free and  fair?

President Trump and the American people are all on board with the  SAVE America Act. The House will pass it shortly. We can get this done  today and deliver for the American people.

Passing the SAVE America Act is an essential step to our democracy,  ensuring free and fair elections nationwide. We must get it done.

1383; further, that the Senate concur in  the House amendment, and that the motion to reconsider be made and laid  upon the table.

Mr. SCOTT of Florida. While I am clearly disappointed, this is the  most commonsense bill there is.

So none of us get to vote for the President of France. I would vote  for Macron, but I don't get to. Nobody that is not a U.S. citizen  should be voting in our elections.

And we have to use ID for everything: Board a plane, get a lottery  ticket, go to a doctor, they ask you for your ID. This is common sense.  We don't want  any fraud in our elections. All we say is just show your ID when you go  vote, make sure you are a citizen to register, show your ID to vote.

So I am disappointed that my colleague doesn't support this. I can't  understand why he wouldn't support some commonsense standard like this,  but I am going to keep working, and we are going to get this passed.