Recognizing the Significance of Jewish American Heritage Month and Calling on Elected Officials and Civil Society Leaders to Counter Antisemitism


Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Madam President, I stand today to condemn the  anti-Semitic and hate-fueled murders of Yaron Lischinsky and Sarah  Milgrim that occurred last night at the hands of a Hamas sympathizer.  This was a sickening, violent, and anti-Semitic attack in our Nation's  Capital.

These two young professionals were targeted and murdered because they  represented Israel and the Jewish people, with their murderer chanting  ``Free Palestine'' after killing them in cold blood.

These were innocents, out for a night together at the Capital Jewish  Museum here in DC, just like members of our own staff do each and every  week. This anti-Semitism and hate for Israel and the Jewish people is  disgusting, unacceptable, and must be condemned on every level. It is  despicable, and it is dangerous.

We have seen a rise in anti-Semitism and anti-Israel hate since the  October 7, 2023 attacks. We have seen Hamas sympathizers take over  college campuses and instill fear in Jewish students. We have seen  violent protests on our streets and now in our Nation's Capital. Jewish  Americans are afraid to walk outside or live their daily lives. For  nearly 600 days now, Israel has defended itself against Iran-backed  Hamas terrorists who want to destroy Israel and destroy the Jewish  people.

These terrorists murder babies and women in cold blood, take and  murder innocent people, and brag about their acts with no remorse. They  took innocent people, including Americans, hostage and tortured them.  They still hold the bodies of American hostages to deprive their  families of closure.

Israel is the United States' greatest democratic ally in the Middle  East. We cannot abandon our ally. Thankfully, we have a President who  is an ally of Israel and who is working to fight anti-Semitism in the  United States.

President Trump is pushing back on colleges and universities that  allow hateful anti-Semitic actions on campus that threaten the safety  of Jewish students. He has appointed the most pro-Israel Cabinet ever  assembled. And he is committed to defending Israel, combating  terrorism, and protecting Jewish Americans.

Today, I rise to condemn last night's heinous and anti-Semitic attack  on these innocent people. I condemn this hateful rhetoric against  Israel and against the Jewish people who deserve the right to live  freely and without fear in the United States and around the world.

The United States must always stand with Israel and the Jewish  people, and today we join together to remember the innocent lives taken  in an act of hate and pay tribute to their lives and the contributions  of the Jewish people to our Nation.

Madam President, the fight against anti-Semitism is a bipartisan one.  I am grateful for my colleague Jackie Rosen for working with me to  draft a resolution that draws attention to anti-Semitism in America and  declaring May, Jewish American Heritage Month.

I yield to my colleague from Nevada Senator Rosen.