Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699105/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. GRAHAM.  I can't think of a time that I felt the need to  object.

You are entitled to your opinion of me.

How do you get in this group of eight people? Jack Smith went after  my phone records. I am the chairman of the Judiciary Committee. We  found out later that this politically motivated hit job against  President Trump by Jack Smith got eight of us, and there are probably  more.

What did I do to deserve this, Senator? I will just tell you. I don't  know where you were at January 6. I was here. I was probably the  leading voice on this side of the aisle to say the election is over;  Biden won; Trump lost. But you keep talking about Trump because--if  there is a case of Trump derangement syndrome, I think it has spread  throughout the building.

I didn't riot. I didn't give cover to the idea that the election was  stolen--quite the opposite. What was my big offense? Being a friend of  Trump's.

What are you trying to do here? Do the right thing? The right thing  is to continue to investigate Jack Smith for turning the law upside  down, for creating a precedent that should scare every Senator in this  body.

The law is pretty clear--there is a statute on point--that the  Senate, even with a nondisclosure order, is supposed to notify the  Members when somebody wants our phone records. We are a separate branch  of the government.

You don't seem to be upset at all because they are coming after Trump  and a friend of Trump's.

Now, when we do something, you know, we are out to destroy Trump. And  anytime we look at what you all did, you know, we are, I guess, a bunch  of crooks.

Now let's talk about me and enrichment. The Democratic majority  leader, Senator Schumer, signed off on this. I want the world to know-- and the world is paying no attention because it is blowing up right  now--that this provision was coordinated between Senators Thune and  Schumer because a lot of people worried that if they can do it to  Republicans, maybe they can do it to Democrats.

So the idea that eight of us cooked something up is ridiculous. We  talked to your Democratic leadership. The fact that they didn't talk to  you is your problem with them.

What happened? We sent to the Ethics Committee what we are doing, and  they didn't send anything back. Now they have.

So the bottom line is, Mr. President, this provision was a result of  ``We are not going to take it anymore.'' The law was flagrantly  violated, I believe, but he has already made a decision--Senator Peters  has--that Jack Smith was lawfully in the right here. Have a hearing. He  has already decided that Jack Smith was right--right--to find my phone  records. Based on what? Being a friend of Trump's?

I will take this to the court. If your goal is to intimidate me, boy,  you don't know anything about me. If your goal is to try to cover up a  valid inquiry and stop Jack Smith from being  looked at, it ain't happening. I am more determined than ever to find  out how Arctic Frost got so off the rails.

Within 3 days of Trump's announcing ``I am going to run again,'' the  process started, and within 6 months, he had 91 felony charges in  Manhattan; in Atlanta, GA; in Washington, DC; and in Florida. I had to  spend $1.2 million to go down to Georgia for the Fani Willis debacle.  So this will be looked at.

Was there a coordinated effort between Jack Smith--the special  counsel--and the most liberal jurisdictions in the country to knock  Trump out of the race by throwing everything you could at him, whether  it made sense or not, and his friends? See, I don't know, but we are  going to find this out, Senator Peters. We are moving forward.

You have made up your mind. If it were up to you, we would not be  looking at Jack Smith. You made a mistake there by defending somebody  when you had no idea, actually, what he did.

I  object because we did it in coordination with the Democrats.

The House? The House did it quickly. There are provisions in this  bill from the House that his amendment would strip out--the  notification requirement. Every Member should want to be notified if  anybody in the government, in the executive branch, is looking at your  phone records. This provision would strip that out. A private cause of  action would strip it out.

I live in America. We all live in America. If you cannot hold your  government accountable for violating your rights or potentially  violating your rights, you have a very dangerous government. I am no  better than anybody else, but I am certainly--hell--no worse than  anybody else. So I want to know why the government made a subpoena  request that if you tell me about what is going on here, that I am  likely to taint the witnesses and act irresponsibly. What have I ever  done as a Senator to make you think that is me? There was no factual  foundation that I would do anything illegal if you told me. I did  nothing illegal except to be Trump's friend, apparently. I inquired as  to whether or not I should vote to certify the election on January 6,  and I did. I did not know this had happened, but if it can happen to  me, then, to my colleagues over there, it can happen to you.

So this unanimous consent request would strip the notification out,  and it would strip the private cause of action out. I think that is the  wrong signal to send to a government out of control. With the private  cause of action, the $500,000 is to try to deter people from doing this  again. The bottom line is the private cause of action needs to stay if  anybody else in the future gets hurt like this or a private citizen.

There are a bunch of groups out there--all conservative--that have  had their phone records looked at, too, but we are not going to give  up. No matter what Senator Peters says, we are going to look at it.  There is Turning Point USA. There are a lot of shenanigans going on out  there with Jack Smith, and we are going to look at it, whether you want  us to or not. So I hope they can sue.

As to me, I am a Senator. If this provision--the private cause of  action--is seen out of line with what the Senate rules now, I will  gladly fix that. But you are off base if you think I am doing this for  $1 million. I am going to sue for much more than that, not just to try  to make my life whole but to make people pay for trying to--you know,  forget my phone records, for God's sake. That will be in court. I will  have to prove that. I will make sure--and I will have that in just a  minute. There is a provision to change the law so that there is no  doubt that I and the eight others won't get a benefit from the  $500,000. It won't be personal. But we do want to proceed with our  case, and I want other people to proceed with their cases. If we do  this right now, Turning Point USA and a bunch of other groups will not  have a private cause of action. I want to preserve that private cause  of action for a lot of other people who are not Senators.

As to me, I don't know. You are implying that I did something to  benefit me in the dark of night. You know, I will remember that, but  life goes on.

Mr. GRAHAM. OK. Sorry about that.

So, Mr. President, the objection is heard.

Here is what the Ethics Committee said about my proposal, about my  modification: that the amendment cures the Senate 37.4 issue previously  identified in a letter sent to you.

So I asked the Ethics Committee: Will this amendment cure any  concerns that people have about this provision regarding me or any  other Senator? It does.

So, if that is what you want to do, I think we have fixed it.

However, with all due respect to my colleague, I am never going to  agree to drop the notification requirement. I have had a ton of House  Members say: Please, don't do that. All of us here should want to be  notified if someone in the executive branch is looking at our phone  records. That would be terrible.

The private cause of action goes away. I am never going to agree to  drop that. Why? There are a bunch of people caught up in Jack Smith who  are not Senators, who may have a cause of action, and they deserve  their day in court. As to my cause of action under the statute, I am  going to pursue it but in a way that is compliant with Senate rules.

I just want to put everybody on notice: The statute is just one  avenue to finding out what happened. There will be others. I will go to  the phone company. I will sue Jack Smith's and Biden's DOJ--that is  where I am headed--but I will do it in a fashion that is consistent  with the rules of the Senate.  But I am not going to drop the private right of action because there  are a bunch of people out there other than me.

As to the notification requirement, given the environment in which we  are all living, whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, I think we  need to be notified if the executive branch is maybe doing something it  shouldn't do.

So I look forward to working with you, and I appreciate ending this  thing the way we have ended it. I will be pursuing my legal rights  consistent with the ethics of the Senate, and maybe we could work  something out. But, Senator Peters, we live in pretty dangerous times  now, and I can see it going bad on our side or on your side. We need to  protect these institutions the best we can from things that may come  our way. It is me today, but it could be you all tomorrow. And I love  the institution. People want to change the rules, you know, to make it  like the House. I don't.

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I do, too, and we will start it here soon.