Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702111/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-the-islamic-republic-of-iran-that-have-not-been


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, we are going to start reconciliation. I  think we all know what that means; that is Latin for ``a long night.''

But why are we here? We are here to make sure that the Department of  Homeland Security, the ICE division and Border Patrol, are funded.

Now, why are we here? Our Democratic colleagues have refused to  provide funding for the Border Patrol and ICE at a time of great threat  to our country.

So what are we doing? We are trying to use the reconciliation process  to get money to secure the border and not shut down enforcement of our  immigration laws.

Our friends on the other side sat on the sideline and watched the Joe  Biden administration allow 11 to 15 million illegal immigrants to come  into this country in a 4-year period. We have been dealing with that  mess ever since we have been in charge.

ICE--count me in for reforming ICE. We tried to have some reforms,  but you refused. You refused to give a dollar, guys, because, in your  view, ICE is the problem. I think the illegal immigration invasion that  was allowed by Joe Biden and condoned by you is the problem. It is not  the ICE agents that are the problem; it is the millions of people who  came here illegally, and only God knows who they are and exactly where  they are.

So we are not going to stop trying to enforce immigration laws. We  have to. We are trying to clean up a mess, a national security threat.

Let me be really clear. In 2022, 2023, and 2024, we had a tremendous  spike of people that came into the country under Biden on the Terrorist  Watchlist. We don't know where all these people are. It went from,  like, nothing to a bunch. Everybody in the world was told: If you can  get to the American border, you are home free. Good guy, bad guy; good  gal, bad gal--they came. They came by the millions.

One reason they came is because there was a policy called sanctuary  cities. It is really sanctuary States. There are about 15 States that  refuse to enforce Federal immigration law. There are cities that will  not turn over an illegal immigrant to the Federal Government for  deportation when they are eligible to be deported. It is creating  chaos.

There are 10,000 criminals who were released by sanctuary policies  who went on to be arrested for additional crimes and $9 billion in  fraud stolen by Somali immigrants in Minnesota alone. Fifty-nine  percent of illegal immigrant households are on government welfare  programs, costing taxpayers $42 billion a year.

These sanctuary cities create a magnet. People all over the world  believe that if you can get to one of these cities or States, you will  never get deported. Why? Because the people running those cities and  those States refuse to turn illegal immigrants over to the Federal  Government--laws that were established long before Donald Trump became  President of the United States. Some of these people they refuse to  turn over are dangerous--very dangerous.

Abdul Jalloh comes in illegally in 2012; 30 arrests, including rape,  malicious wounding, and assault. ICE submits a formal detainer to  deport Jalloh. The request is blocked by the Virginia attorney for  Fairfax County, a Soros-backed prosecutor and defender of sanctuary  cities who ignored the detainer. In May of 2025, he is arrested one  more time for stabbing an individual in the leg, but he is released  again. In February 2026, Jalloh brutally murders Stephanie Nicole  Minter.

Look at this. If that doesn't disgust you, something is wrong. This  is disgusting. This is what happens when you have sanctuary policies.  This is what happens when people fail to enforce Federal law.

The Virginia attorney for Fairfax County refused to work with the  Federal Government. This guy stayed out. In May, he commits a crime,  stabs a guy in the leg. In February 2026, he brutally murders Stephanie  Minter.

That happens all the time, way too much.

Last week in Spartanburg, SC, two boys were killed by an illegal  immigrant in a drunk-driving car crash. He was a ``got-away.'' He came  across the border, and he literally got away. He was able to take  advantage of lawless open borders to enter the United States  undetected.

The victims were 12-year-old Dereon James Robinson and 9-year-old  Mikhail'Lee Smith--killed by somebody who shouldn't have been here to  begin with, an illegal drunk driver.

In April 2025, a University of South Carolina student was killed in a  hit-and-run crash by an illegal alien. Fernandez-Cruz, a native of El  Salvador, illegally crossed the U.S.-Mexican border on an unknown date  but was arrested by the Border Patrol in Hidalgo, TX, on December 24,  2016. He was released the next day, which I guess was Christmas, and  issued a notice to appear as DHS initiated removal proceedings. The  victim was 21-year-old Nathaniel Baker. They had him and let him go.

In March 2025, a mother of two was murdered in Rock Hill by a group  of six illegal immigrants. This heinous crime was committed by a gang  of six illegal aliens in a random robbery attempt that ended deadly.  The victim was Larisha Sharell Thompson, 40 years old, a mother of two.

On and on and on--I can read you too many of these things.

Laken Riley was a young lady killed in Georgia. The man was detained  at the border--her killer, Jose Ibarra--and was released because they  had no bedspace in 2022. He went to New York, found his way back to  Georgia, and killed this young lady. He was loose because of the lack  of detention space.

All I can tell you is that--what are we trying to do to make sure  this never happens again? It happens over and over and over. So we are  here tonight to do something Democrats won't let us do that must be  done.

Seventy billion dollars will be allocated to fully fund the Border  Patrol and fully fund ICE through the entire term of President Trump's  second term, for 3\1/2\ years--one and done. I wish we could do more,  but we are going to do for 3\1/2\ years. We are going to give DHS--the  Border Patrol and ICE--the money to pay their people and to conduct  operations to make sure what I described never happens again.

Why are we here? We passed everything in the appropriations bill in a  bipartisan manner except this. Our Democratic friends wanted to pick a  fight about this. No money for the Border Patrol. No money for ICE. No  reforms of ICE; just no money.

We are not going to let that stand. We are going to fix that. So  Republicans, starting today and hopefully by the 1st of June, will  create a process so that we can get the money that ICE and the Border  Patrol need to keep your families safe, to enforce illegal immigration  violations--ICE--to have money and people on the border at a time when  terrorism is through the roof.

We are having to do this through reconciliation because the  appropriations process failed only here. These are the two accounts we  couldn't get money for. It says a lot about the state of play where our  Democratic colleagues are. In their world, not paying the Border Patrol  seems to be an acceptable outcome. Really? With terrorism rampant all  over the world, a war with the largest state sponsor of terrorism,  Iran, heated up and fully running? Really?

ICE. We tried to have--we had reforms, but you said no to the  reforms. You said no money at all. Putting these people out of business  really is dangerous when you have millions of people still in this  country illegally.

So, tonight, we are going to start the process to pass a budget  resolution that will instruct two committees--Homeland Security and  Judiciary--to report back to us a reconciliation bill that will be $70  billion in spending. That will allow the Border Patrol and ICE to be  fully funded through the rest of President Trump's term so we can be  safe.

I am sad we are having to do this, but you gave us no choice. The day  that you said no to funding the Border Patrol and the day you wanted to  put ICE out of business is the day that, as the Budget chairman, I and  my colleagues acted. We are not going to let this happen. We can fix  this with Republican votes, and we will.

Every Democrat has opposed money for the Border Patrol and ICE in a  time of great peril and we are going to fix that and it starts tonight.  And in the coming weeks, we are going to get it done.

We are going to make sure that the Federal Government honors its  obligation to protect the American people.  And there is no bigger responsibility of the Federal Government than to  secure our own border, to enforce our laws that have been on the books  for decades. This is the primary job of the Federal Government. We will  be talking about everything but this over the coming days, tonight, and  into the future.

This needs to be done. And I am not saying other things don't need to  be done. But this has to be done. It will be done. We are going to get  this right. We are going to fully fund for 3\1/2\ years the Border  Patrol so they have money they need to pay their people to protect us,  and we are going to continue to enforce immigration law by fully  funding ICE. We are going to do that, and we are not going to fail. We  cannot fail. The world is too dangerous to fail.

So to my Democratic colleagues, you have taken a path that blows my  mind in this regard. Don't you see the same world we do? Reform makes  sense. We had reforms. You threw them out because, I guess, the hardest  of the hard on your side insists not one dime for the Border Patrol,  not one dime for ICE.

The American people are not where you are at, and I hope the American  people will understand tonight that we, the Republicans, fixed this  problem, and we couldn't find a partner on the other side. Sad but  true.

We are going to succeed. We are going to fix this problem. Working  with the Trump administration, we are going to secure that border. It  is the most secure I have ever seen it in my life. What President Trump  has done is amazing.

We are not going backward. What the Democrats want us to do is not  fund ICE, not fund the Border Patrol, to go back to the policies that  reigned during the Biden years. We are not going back to the Biden  years. We are going forward.