Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, today I would like to rise in opposition  to Senator Kaine's War Powers Resolution, S.J. Res. 68. 

  I have had a longstanding opposition to the War Powers Act. I think  it is an unconstitutional intrusion on the ability of any Commander in  Chief to defend the Nation and to direct military operations. 

  This statute passed, I think, in the 1970s. It was a way to deal with  the Vietnam war. 

  I have always believed the best thing Congress can do when it comes  to dealing with military operations--longstanding conflicts that it  disapproves of--is to cut off funding. I think that is what the Framers  had in mind. 

  The inherent authority of any Commander in Chief to defend the Nation  is part of our constitutional checks and balances. The President is the  Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. You cannot have 535 people  planning and implementing military operations. That 535 would be  Congress. Can you imagine what would happen if our Nation had to  respond in real time and we had to get 535 Members of Congress to agree  on anything? 

  This resolution is designed to prevent actions against the Islamic  Republic of Iran without congressional authorization. It does  acknowledge in the law that we can take defensive action. We can always  defend ourselves. I think that is inherent to putting people in harm's  way. 

  I have been consistent over time. I have opposed the War Powers Act  being used against all Presidents, Republican or Democratic. I will  continue to do so because I do believe, from a national security point  of view, this will create a nightmare for our country's ability to  defend itself. Every Commander in Chief has to have the latitude and  the flexibility to engage enemies of this Nation in real time and to  send messages that are clear. 

  When the President decided to withdraw from the Iranian nuclear  agreement early on in his Presidency, I supported that action. We are  trying to find a way to replace it with something that is more  sustainable and acceptable to the region and the world. Without boring  everyone with the flaws in the Iran nuclear agreement, I thought it was  a bad deal. It gave the Ayatollah and his henchmen a bunch of money  without their having to change their behavior. It was tied to their  nuclear program and had nothing to do with their missile program or  their being the largest state sponsor of terrorism.  

  Now you see Iran has been acting out since this agreement has been  signed. Iran has been involved in operations in Yemen, Lebanon, and  throughout the entire region. It has captured American sailors on the  high seas and humiliated them. Its efforts in Lebanon put Israel's very  existence at risk by its flooding Lebanon with weapons that could be  used to destroy our friends in Israel, and it is the largest state  sponsor of terrorism. 

  I applaud the President for standing up to the Iranians. They have  attacked the largest oilfield in the world in Saudi Arabia, and they  have attacked international shipping in the Strait of Hormuz. 

  The President decided to use military force against Soleimani, who  was a member of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard and a commander who was  on the international no-fly list--for lack of a better term--who was  sanctioned by the U.N. I think he was a legitimate target of war  because he had been pushing war against the United States for decades. 

  We have had at least 500 to 600 soldiers killed in Iraq from IEDs  that had been developed in Iran and had been used inside Iraq. They  have been very, very lethal to American forces. 

  Now we find ourselves in a position wherein Iran is getting more  provocative, and the worst possible thing Congress could do would be to  send a mixed signal. 

  I want the Iranians to know that the Trump administration would like  a new deal and a better deal but that it has to occur through  negotiations and that if they continue to dismember the region and  develop technology that could destroy our friends in Israel or that  could one day come to our homeland, they will be met with all options  on the table. 

  The authors of this resolution are friends. Senator Kaine has had a  longstanding concern about the original AUMF that had come right after  9/11. It is one thing to try to rewrite it; it is another thing to use  the War Powers Act to tie the hands of the President at a time when our  Iranian enemies--and they are the enemies of the United States and the  region and the world--are becoming more provocative. The Iranian people  could be a great ally one day, but the Ayatollah is a religious Nazi,  in my view, and I can't imagine why we are doing this now. It makes  conflict more likely, not less. 

  If this passes, the President will never abide by it. No President  would. It will be vetoed, if that is the appropriate way to do it, but  it is going to have no effect on his ability to conduct military  operations. It will have an effect on our enemies' perception of the  will of the United States to stand up to Iranian aggression. It will  have an effect on our allies: Can you really trust America? Our friends  in Israel are watching with great concern about this debate. 

  I will oppose this resolution--the fundamentally flawed concept of  having a statute that would restrict military  operations based on the view of 535 Members of Congress. We can only  have 1 Commander in Chief, not 535. I think the War Powers Act, as it  has been written, is blatantly unconstitutional. 

  Having said that, we find ourselves at a time of choosing in the  Middle East, for the Iranians are making calculations every day of how  hard to push: What would the Americans do if we did this or that? I  want the Iranians to understand that when it comes to their provocative  behavior, all options are on the table. 

  Let me tell you the scenario that I fear the most. The Iranians are  now up against the wall because of sanctions. What if they reactivate  the centrifuges that have been dismantled or at least mothballed? They  have probably not been dismantled. What if they began enriching uranium  at 20 percent? What if they went from 3.5 to 20 percent? Going from 20  to 90 takes months, not years. What would be the appropriate response?  Would that be a hostile act under the War Powers Act? 

  I know this: It would be an unacceptable outcome for the United  States. 

  I hope the Trump administration is communicating to the Iranians that  any effort to have a nuclear breakout--a dash to a bomb--would be  considered a threat to the United States, our allies--particularly  Israel--and would be met with military force if the provocation were to  continue. I can't think of a more dangerous scenario in real time than  the Iranians' making a miscalculation that the international  community--particularly the United States--will sit on the sideline as  they try to ramp up enrichment and have a breakout toward a bomb. 

  The regime believes that if it can ever get a nuclear weapon, it will  be home free, that the world will back off. All I can say to the world  is that containing the Ayatollah with a nuke is a non-option for me. If  you are in Israel, it is not even close to being an option. What you  have to understand is that the Iranians are wanting to make a bomb, not  build powerplants for peaceful purposes. They want a bomb for a  reason--not as an insurance policy to guarantee the regime's  survivability but to enact a religious agenda that is very dangerous,  very radical, and very real. 

  People don't want to believe things like this. After World War I,  nobody wanted to believe that Hitler had a plan that included killing  all of the Jews. People just thought he was bluffing and talking,  rhetoric-wise, just to grab more land and that he would be appeased if  you just gave him one more thing. It is hard for peace-loving people to  imagine that folks like Hitler actually exist and will do the things  they say they will do. It is hard for us here, in the safety of the  United States, to imagine that someplace in the Mideast, there is a  regime that is bent on our destruction because of our religious  differences. 

  Here is what I do believe: If the Ayatollah had a nuclear weapon, he  would use it, and it would be a competition for the first use. Would  the Iranians go after the Sunni Arabs, who are the mortal enemy of the  Islamic faith and the regime? Would they go after Israel? There is no  spot on the planet for a State of Israel in the radical Shiite  theology. Would they come after us, the greatest of all infidels? I  don't know where we would be--No. 1, 2, or 3--but we would be in the  top three. I do know this: Our Arab allies and our Israeli friends can  never let that day come. 

  The best way to prevent the Ayatollah from having a nuclear breakout  is for Congress and this administration and every other administration  to make it clear what will happen if you try. We were able to win the  Cold War because all parties and every President adhered to the idea  that we would stand up to the expansion of communism. 

  This is one of those moments in history in which I hope we do not  miscalculate. The Iranians are watching. North Korea is watching. The  world is watching. I am hoping that Congress will not miscalculate  because, if we pass this resolution, the chance of war goes up, not  down. The chance of a nuclear breakout becomes almost inevitable. 

  I ask all of my colleagues to think long and hard about how they will  vote today. You may think nothing will really happen if this passes  because it will never become law as we know law to be in the United  States. You are right about that. Yet you are wrong about the signal it  will send. It will send a signal that will be picked up by the most  dangerous people on the planet that we really don't mean it when we  say: When it comes to Iran's getting a nuclear weapon, it will never  happen. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT