Graham, Feinstein Bipartisan Bill to Keep Dangerous Drugs Off the Streets Signed into Law


Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein (D-California) today made these statements after their legislation to keep dangerous drugs off the streets was signed into law by President Trump.

The Temporary Reauthorization and Study of the Emergency Scheduling of Fentanyl Analogues Act (S. 3201) is also cosponsored by Senators Dick Durbin (D-Illinois), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Maggie Hassan (D-New Hampshire), John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Bob Menendez (D-New Jersey). 

"I very much appreciate the bipartisan effort that went into ensuring that fentanyl analogues stayed a Schedule I drug because it is one of the most lethal drugs on the planet," said Graham. "This legislation will prevent a resurgence of fentanyl analogues in a way that would have been devastating to America. This is truly a good day for those who want to fight against the scourge of fentanyl and fentanyl-like substances. I appreciate my colleagues for working with me on this legislation and I appreciate all those who worked with the Trump Administration to make this a reality."

"We cannot sit idly by while 32,000 people die a year from fentanyl-related substances. This is a public health crisis and fentanyl is the leading culprit. While not permanent, I'm hopeful this extension of DEA's temporary order will allow us to find a bipartisan fix to this epidemic of overdoses. Fentanyl must be treated as the deadly hazard it is," said Feinstein.

Background:

-In January, the bill was unanimously passed by the Senate and approved by the House of Representatives.-Working with Senator Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin), lead sponsor of the Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues Act, Graham, Feinstein and Durbin reached an agreement to temporarily extend the emergency scheduling order for fentanyl analogues for 15 months.-In June, officials testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee that the simplest solution to this crisis would be to codify the emergency scheduling order.