H.J. Res. 20


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the following Senators join me in this  statement: Tim Scott, Bill Hagerty, Marsha Blackburn, Thom Tillis, Ted  Budd, and John Boozman. The day after Christmas, when both Houses of  Congress were in recess, the Biden administration released a final rule  setting new energy efficiency standards for tankless water heaters.  Like any last-minute rule from the previous administration, this effort  was ill-advised and ill-timed. It should not, and cannot, stand.

However, the enactment of H.J. Res. 20, which provides for  congressional disapproval of the rule titled Energy Conservation  Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired  Instantaneous Water Heaters, will create a structural imbalance. This  imbalance results from the Biden administration's issuance of an  efficiency rule for commercial tank and tankless water heaters in  October of 2023, as well as residential tank-filled water heaters in  April 2024, neither of which could be overturned by the Congressional  Review Act because it was unlikely to achieve a veto-proof majority in  the Senate. Through rulemaking, the Department of Energy should write  new rules to address this regulatory imbalance, whereby traditional  tank water heaters and commercial gas-fired instantaneous and tank  water heaters continue to be subject to regulatory standards.

This structural imbalance, if not addressed, will result in an uneven  competitive marketplace for water heater manufacturing and sales. While  the enactment of the resolution may limit the Department of Energy from  issuing a substantially similar rule, there remains a need to rectify  the regulatory misalignment. Accordingly, we strongly encourage the  Department of Energy, with input from congressional leaders and  affected industry partners, to use its rulemaking authority to ensure  that regulatory standards for consumer and commercial gas-fired water  heating equipment are aligned, thereby removing any market imbalance.