Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700468/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I want to associate myself with the  remarks of my colleague from Nebraska Senator Fischer, and I thank the  Presiding Officer for all the leadership you have provided in this  crucial time.

What I would like to do to start with is read a letter that was sent  by Admiral Cooper to all of those participating in Epic Fury. As a  commander, he wanted to let everybody know, in these operations, sort  of what is at stake. If I can, I will read it:

To America's extraordinary sons and daughters deployed       around the Middle East,

By order of the President of the United States, we are       embarking on a mission of profound consequence. The time for       preparation is over. The time for action has arrived.

As we move from deterrence into active combat, I write to       tell you how honored I am to serve with you--the most       exceptional Soldiers, Sailors, Marines, Airmen, Guardians and       Coast Guardsmen on this earth.

Some of you are stationed in the Middle East. Many of you       have deployed overseas on short notice. Others have been       extended on deployment for this [crucial] mission. You       represent the strongest, most lethal warfighting force the       world has ever known. You all selflessly serve our . . .       country and make us . . . very PROUD.

Since 1979, the Iranian Regime has killed and wounded       thousands of Americans . . . and continue to threaten       Americans and our friends. Today, by your courage and grit,       you will change the course of . . . history.

My guidance for you is simple:

Be Relentlessly Lethal. In the heat of conflict, remember       who you are. Let your conduct be as professional as your aim       is precise.

Take Care of Your Teammates. The men and women on your       flanks, in front of you and those at your [side] are your       Guardian Angels. Be [there].

Steady Your Resolve. Combat is inherently chaotic. The       hours, days and perhaps weeks ahead will challenge you. There       will be noise and confusion. Fall back on your training. It       is the best in the world.

You are the shield of the free world, and today, you are       its sharpest sword.

As the eyes of the world fix upon [you], stay safe, and       GODSPEED.

To America's extraordinary sons and daughters deployed       around the Middle East.

By order of the President of the United States, we are       embarking on a mission of profound consequence. The time for       preparation is over. The time for action has arrived.

As we move from deterrence into active combat, I write to       tell you how honored I am to serve with you--the most       exceptional Soldiers, Sailors, Marines, Airman, Guardians and       Coast Guardsmen on this earth.

Some of you are stationed in the Middle East. Many of you       have deployed overseas on short notice. Others have been       extended on deployment for this critical mission. You       represent the strongest, most lethal warfighting force the       world has ever known. You selflessly serve our great country       and make us so very PROUD.

Since 1979, the Iranian Regime has killed and wounded       thousands of Americans, and they continue to threaten       Americans and our friends. Today, by your courage and grit,       you will change the course of human history.

My guidance for you is simple:

Be Relentlessly Lethal. In the heat of conflict, remember       who you are. Let your conduct be as professional as your aim       precise.

Take Care of Your Teammates. The men and women on your       flanks, in front of you and those at your six are your       Guardian Angels. Be theirs.

Steady Your Resolve. Combat is inherently chaotic. The       hours, days and perhaps weeks ahead will challenge you. There       will be noise and confusion. Fall back on your training. It       is the best in the world.

You are the shield of the free world, and today, you are       its sharpest sword.

As the eyes of the world fix upon us, stay safe, and       GODSPEED.                                                    C.B. Cooper II.

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, that letter was sent to everybody involved  in Epic Fury. Six people received this letter that have been killed in  action.

This letter is a statement by the commander that what you are doing  is righteous, what you are doing is long overdue, what you are doing  will make your country safer, and the eyes of the world are upon you.

I would like to say this: I have never been more proud of our men and  women in the military than I am now. That is true every day but  particularly now. They have been tested by the sting of battle. Six  have fallen, and God bless them.

The best thing you can do for a military unit when they suffer losses  is to make sure the struggle continues and the sacrifice is not in  vain. That is what they want. They accept the risk of injury and death;  they cannot accept and should not have to accept anything less than  victory.

So a couple of days into this conflict--3 or 4--we have lost six, and  more may follow.

To the families of the fallen: Your loved ones died nobly in the  service of their country.

The enemy that we are facing, Iran, is the largest state sponsor of  terrorism on the planet. They have been killing Americans by the  thousands since 1979.

In 1983, 220 marines, I think 18 sailors, and 3 members of the Army  were killed in Lebanon by Hezbollah, a proxy of the Iranian regime, in  a bombing against the Marine barracks. We withdrew. We never held those  responsible accountable. I love Ronald Reagan. He was a great  President. But that was his biggest mistake.

So we are here to settle the account with the Iranian regime, after  months of trying to negotiate an outcome to avoid conflict that would  prevent Iran from ever having a nuclear weapon, would lessen their  ability to produce missiles that could hit our homeland and terrorize  the region, and to stop their funding of terrorist organizations like  Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthis. It was clear during those  negotiations that Iran is wedded to its agenda.

The Ayatollah is a religious Nazi. He is no more likely to give up  his agenda than Hitler was. What does he want? Listen to what he says,  not what I am saying. He says ``Death to America,'' and he means it.  Well, he can't say it anymore because he is dead, but there are others  in Iran who keep saying it. He wants to purify Islam--the regime does.  They are radical religious fanatics that believe there is only one way  to worship God, and that is through the Shia way. The Sunnis in Saudi  Arabia are the worst offenders in their eyes.

So they have a goal to purify the faith of Islam, to create an  international caliphate built around an extreme ideology. That extreme  ideology will allow a 16-year-old girl to be taken off a bus and beaten  to death because she didn't wear her headscarf right. That happened.  There are cameras all over Iran--particularly Tehran--making sure that  as a car goes by, the woman is covered.

These people are fanatics. They throw gay people off buildings. They  will not tolerate any other form of religion. They killed 32,000 people  in the last couple of months who have had it with the Ayatollah.

People are tired of living the way they have to live. They are tired  of having daughters killed for just not wearing their headscarf right.  They are tired of an economy that is broken and a regime that just  wants to destroy the region and is built around a cult of death.

People ask me what happens next. There is zero chance that the  Ayatollah and his henchmen would ever be our friends. There is zero  chance they would give up their religious fanatical ways. We tried for  months, to no avail.

Those that follow, I think, will be better for us. Why do I say that?  If you look at the protesters and consider them no different than the  Ayatollah, then that is an affront to them. They are out in the streets  risking their lives not to have more oppression but to have less. Do  you really think these people who have taken to the streets want to  continue this regime as we know it? Isn't that an offense to them?

But when the regime falls--and it is not if; it is when--the people  of Iran will have a new chance, I hope, to start anew. I don't know  what will happen, but I know it will be their decision. It is not our  decision.

America is not going to go in and run Iran; we are going to try to  take down a terrorist regime that is bent on our destruction. They have  been building missiles--100 a month. The goal is to hit us. They have  been supporting Hamas, Hezbollah, and the Houthis since 1979 to kill  Americans. The IEDs used in Iraq and Afghanistan, coming out of Iran,  maimed and killed thousands of American servicemen, and they were made  by the Iranians--the Iranian Revolutionary Guard and Quds Force. This  regime is a cult of death.

October 7 was designed to stop Israel and Saudi Arabia making peace-- the biggest change in 1,000 years. I worked with President Biden and  his team to build on the Abraham Accords, to have Saudi Arabia  recognize Israel, which would end the Arab-Israeli conflict. We were  close, but the October 7 attack that killed 1,200 innocent Israelis,  slaughtered people, raped women, and  cut children's heads off in front of parents was designed to stop that  process.

Since October 7, Israel has been a state of constant war and  conflict. Hamas is just about done, and President Trump, after trying  through diplomacy, made a decision to call the question on Iran. I talk  to him a lot.

Midnight Hammer was a very successful military operation to degrade  and obliterate the nuclear ambitions of the Iranian regime, and it  worked. But it wasn't very long after that they were right back at  trying to restart it.

I think President Trump came to conclude that there is nothing he can  do; there is no deal to be had with the religious Nazis. And thank God  he concluded that. Can you imagine, a year from now, if we had left  this regime intact--100 missiles a month, more capability?

The money from the JCPOA agreement with Obama and Biden was used to  fuel their war machine, not roads, bridges, and hospitals. The regime  couldn't care less about the people. They have a religious agenda to  dominate the world.

Hitler wanted a master race, believing the Aryan race was superior to  everybody else, and he literally wrote a book about killing all of the  Jews. Nobody believed him. They should have.

This regime, since 1979, has openly embraced a cult of death, and  they have acted on that cult of death.

President Trump, after a sincere effort to bring this conflict to a  peaceful conclusion, concluded that to continue to allow this regime to  move forward would put America at unacceptable risk, and he was right.

So here is where we find ourselves. Operation Epic Fury is off to a  great start. The Ayatollah and his inner circle are dead. They are dead  because they chose not to negotiate. There was no deal to be had with  Hitler in World War II, and there is no deal to be had with the  religious Nazis.

Everybody in Iran is not a religious Nazi--quite the opposite. Most  people in Iran are dying for a better life, and some have literally  died to have a better life.

So this operation is ahead of schedule. Its goal is to make sure this  regime now and in the future cannot produce missiles to hit America,  continue to hold the region hostage, that this regime will no longer be  the largest state sponsor of terrorism, being able to keep Hamas,  Hezbollah, and the Houthis up and running.

So that is the goal, is to take their capability off the table, and  the ultimate capability they want is a nuclear weapon. My goal is to  have people in charge of Iran who don't want a nuclear weapon to blow  the world up, who don't want a bunch of missiles to terrorize America,  who want to live in peace.

When this regime collapses, the Prime Minister of Israel said, a  gateway to peace will be open. I talked with him this morning.

So the big payoff for taking this regime down now before they get  more lethal and about imminent threats--do you really want an imminent  threat before we act? If somebody is threatening your family--to kill  your family, to burn your house down--do you want to wait until they  get to the gas station or the gun store?

Since 1979, they have told us who they are and what they believe. It  is now time to deal with who they are, what they believe, and what they  have done.

So this operation will continue. Every day, Iran grows weaker, and we  grow stronger. The ability to generate missile attacks is going down,  not up. There will be pain before this is over. The likelihood of more  casualties is real. But the reason our men and women are over there is  to protect us over here.

When you take the eye off the ball in the Mideast, they will come  here--9/11. You had 19 people trained in Saudi Arabia, of all places,  that were able to generate 9/11.

When you ignored what happened in Afghanistan, you did so at your  peril. The Taliban gave al-Qaida a safe haven in Afghanistan, and from  there, they trained, and they attacked us on 9/11. I made a promise to  myself that I will do everything I can to never let that happen again.

So if you want to stop radical Islam from blowing you up over here,  you need to fight them over there, and you need to have partners if you  can. There is no better partner on the planet than Israel. They hit  above their weight, they do everything we ask them and then some, and  they ask very little in return.

I do believe the Arab nations in the region that have been viciously  attacked by the Ayatollah's regime--that they are soon going to get in  the fight--at least I hope they will. You will have a coalition of  regional countries, the United States--some support from Europe-- sinking the ship, the largest state sponsor of terrorism. The mother  ship of terrorism is Iran. That ship is sinking, and the captain is  dead.

It is just a matter of time. Israel is committed. President Trump is  committed. This is a righteous cause that makes us safer here at home.  And the big benefit from bringing this regime down, ending this reign  of terror, is that we can get back to the peace table, that we can  renew our effort to try to bring peace to the region in a historic  fashion.

If the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia under Crown Prince MBS would go back  to the table to try to find a peace deal with Israel, it would be the  biggest change in a thousand years. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is the  keeper of the two holy mosques, Mecca and Medina--the most holy of the  holies in Islam. For that country to move forward consistent with  conservative Islamic principles but embracing the world and recognizing  the Jewish State as a legitimate member of the region would be  breathtaking. I think it will happen the day this regime in Iran falls,  that there can never be another October 7 undercutting peace.

So to my Democratic colleagues: This operation is working, is ahead  of schedule, and you should all pray that it is successful.

President Trump for months tried to negotiate, with no results--not  for lack of effort. I have known this for a long time. The Ayatollah is  not a man you can deal with. The Ayatollah is a man you need to make  sure can't kill you and your family. He is Hitler on the religious  side. What he wants for the world is a master religion. Well, his  dreams are going to be denied, and the Iranian people are going to have  a chance to start over. If they want to start over being a friend to  America, we will be their friend. If they want to continue to threaten  us, we will continue to push back.

So why am I here on the floor. There is an effort by my good friend  from Virginia Senator Kaine to terminate the operation.

The War Powers Act was passed years ago by the Congress saying that  after 60 days, any military operation not approved by the Congress must  come to an end. That is just blatantly unconstitutional. That creates  535 Commanders in Chief.

The Constitution designates the President as the Commander in Chief  not for 60 days but for however long it takes to be Commander in Chief.

The Congress can stop military action by cutting off funding. If you  don't like the war in Iran, say: We will not pay for it. We have the  constitutional power of the purse. We can't become the Commander in  Chief after 60 days. You will ruin the country. Can you imagine  Congress being the Commander in Chief? Can you imagine the debate we  would have about what ships to send and what troops to send? It would  be a nightmare. The Founding Fathers understood that. They designated a  single entity in the Constitution--the President--as the Commander in  Chief. They gave power to Congress to declare war.

Does it mean that you can't have military conflict unless Congress  declares war? No. We have declared war five times in the history of the  country: World War II, World War I, the Spanish-American War, the  Mexican-American War, and the War of 1812--five conflicts where  Congress said: We are in a state of war. We have had over 130 conflicts  since the War Powers Act where Congress never authorized anything.

The norm in this country is not to declare war by Congress. But for  the military to be used by the Commander in Chief, sometimes  authorization from Congress is requested, sometimes it is not. More  than not, it is not requested.

The President, as Commander in Chief, has the ability to use our  Armed Forces to protect our Nation, and Congress, if we disagree with  that choice,  has the ability to terminate the action by taking the money away. That  is the check and balance that was created a long time ago. The Founding  Fathers never envisioned that after passage of 60 days, the President  would be replaced by 535 people.

So the War Powers Act, back during the Vietnam era, was an  unconstitutional, in my view, infringement on article II power. I said  that for Obama. I said that for Biden.

When President Biden thought about going into Syria after the  chemical weapons attack, I, along with Senator McCain, said: Do it. You  don't need congressional authorization. You have all the power you  need.

Clinton went into Haiti. I mean, there are just a lot of examples of  Democrats and Republicans using military force. President Bush 41 went  into Panama to take down a drug kingpin.

The norm is not declaration of war; the norm is for the President,  the Commander in Chief, to use military force as they believe  appropriate. The role of the Congress is to check and balance that  decision by cutting off funding if you choose to.

We are going to have a vote at 4 o'clock. The reason I want my  colleagues to reject the War Powers Act is that you will set in motion  a system where 535 people, after 60 days, become the Commander in  Chief, grinding this Nation's ability to defend itself to a halt.

If you want to stop this war, say: We will not pay for it.

I will not agree with you, but at least it would be constitutional.

So I will end where I began. The letter written by Admiral Cooper to  those serving in harm's way reminded them of the history the Iranian  regime has toward us, the American people, our men and women in  uniform.

Since 1979, they have been killing Americans. They have been killing  their own people. They have been slaughtering people in the name of  religion. It is time for that to end. It is time for this regime to  fall. It is time to open the gateway to peace.

To my Democratic colleagues: What you are proposing would create  chaos for every Commander in Chief that follows. You had a chance to  deal with Iran. You gave them money. You were fooled by who these  people are.

President Obama gave them billions of dollars, believing that they  were normal people.

To my Democratic colleagues: The Ayatollah was never a normal person.  Those who are around him are not normal. These people are nuts. These  people are religious fanatics. If you don't get that, you are going to  continue the cult of death.

To those in World War II who thought Hitler was normal: Boy, were you  wrong. How many chances did you have to stop Hitler, and you just blew  it because you thought he really didn't mean to kill all the Jews, that  he could be reasoned with. About 100 million people later, you got it  wrong. We are not going to do that again.

To my Democratic colleagues: You have misjudged Iran from day one,  and in your world, you give them money, hoping they will do better. In  my world, we are going to bring them down. We are going to destroy this  regime to protect America, to free the Iranian people, and to open the  gateway to peace.

To those who argue that we shouldn't do this: What solutions have you  offered? What have you done to bring down this regime, to stop it? You  have done nothing but fuel it, give it money, thinking they would use  it wisely. Boy, were you wrong, were you foolish to give this group a  bunch of money, thinking they wouldn't use it to build a war machine.

This foolish behavior is over. We now have a President--Donald J.  Trump--who understands that the people we are dealing with in Iran--the  regime--are a bunch of religious fanatics; they are religious Nazis. We  are about bringing them down with our Arab partners.

The Arabs in the region have been terrorized by the Iranian regime,  and they are going to join the fight, I hope, soon.

The biggest thing going for us are the Iranian people. We finally  have boots on the ground--them.

Three things have happened, and I will conclude. The Iranian economy  is in shambles because of the sanctions and because President Trump put  a tariff on anybody buying Iranian oil, and their money is drying up.

Midnight Hammer--us, Israel--in the past has depleted and degraded  the Iranian military to the weakest they have been.

Finally, the people have risen up, and you turned your back on them.  You talk about Gaza. You talk about what has happened to the  Palestinians. I understand. Innocent Palestinians being killed--I know  it is hard to watch. I think Israel had to do what they had to do.

Not one word. Have any of you said anything about the protestors?  Have any of you come out and said: I hope you win. I hope you are  successful.

If I were you, I would keep doing--what would you do in Iran? Would  you be out there with them? I hope I would. I don't know if I would be  that brave.

What they are doing today is what we did a long time ago. We rose up  and said: Enough of tyrants.

These people, the protestors, are the best among us all. What have  you done to have their back? What have you done to encourage them?  Nothing. All you want to do is talk about what we can't do. You want to  make sure the oppressor stays in power. If we have to depend on you to  fight evil, it never will be fought.

So the differences between us and our Democratic colleagues could not  be starker. They want to stop this. I want the regime to collapse. I  want to get behind Admiral Cooper and give him and his people what they  need to take this regime down, working with our allies in Israel,  because if we don't do it now, we will regret it.

When it comes to the Ayatollah, you pay now or you pay later. He is  gone, but the regime has not yet collapsed--but it will.

This is the biggest decision I think we can make as a country--to  finally take on this evil in Iran.

Like World War II, you ignored evil to your own peril. You thought  Hitler was normal. He wasn't.

This guy and those around him--the Ayatollah and the cult of death-- they are not normal. They will only be stopped when better people are  risking everything to stop them. That is how it always works. Bad  people are taken down because good people finally have had enough.

So let it be said when they write the history of these times that I  am with the protestors.

You are righteous in your demands. America is here to help you. Help  is not on the way anymore. It has arrived.

Vote no to this War Powers Resolution. It is an affront to our  constitutional democracy.

And to my Democratic friends, you should be ashamed of yourself, not  embracing the righteous nature of the Iranian people's demands.