Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, let me just begin with a note of optimism.  You are going to get to pick the next President, not a bunch of  politicians driven by sour grapes. I don't say that lightly. I didn't  vote for President Trump. I voted for somebody I wouldn't know if they  walked in the door. But I accepted the fact that he won. That has been  hard for a lot of people to do. And it is not like I am above the  President being investigated. 

  I supported the Mueller investigation. I had Democratic colleagues  come to me and say: We are afraid he is going to fire Mueller. Will you  stand with us to make sure Mueller can complete his investigation? And  I did--2 years, $32 million, FBI agents, subpoenas, you name it. The  verdict is in. What did we find? Nothing. I thought that would be it. 

  But it is never enough when it comes to President Trump. This sham  process is the low point in the Senate for me. If you think you have  done the country a good service by legitimizing this impeachment  process, what you have done is unleashed the partisan forces of Hell.  This is sour grapes. 

  They impeached the President of the United States in 78 days. You  cannot get a parking ticket, if you contested it, in 78 days. They gave  out souvenir pens when it was over. 

  If you can't see through that, your hatred of Donald Trump has  blinded you to the obvious. This is not about protecting the country;  this is about destroying the President. 

  There are no rules when it comes to Donald Trump. Everybody in  America can confront the witnesses against them, except Donald Trump.  Everybody in America can call witnesses on their behalf, except  President Trump. Everybody in America can introduce evidence, except  for President Trump. He is not above the law, but you put him below the  law. In the process of impeaching this President, you have made it  almost impossible for future Presidents to do their job. 

  In 78 days, you took due process, as we have come to know it in  America, and threw it in the garbage can. This is the first impeachment  in the history of the country driven by politicians. 

  The Nixon impeachment had outside counsel, Watergate prosecutors. The  Clinton impeachment had Ken Starr, who looked at President Clinton for  years before he brought it to Congress. The Mueller investigation went  on for 2 years. I trusted Bob Mueller. And when he rendered his  verdict, it broke your heart. And you can't let it go. 

  The only way this is going to end permanently is for the President to  get reelected. And he will. 

  So as to abuse of Congress, it is a wholesale assault on the  Presidency; it is abandoning every sense of fairness that every  American has come to expect in their own lives; it is driven by blind  partisanship and hatred of the man himself. And they wanted to do it in  78 days. Why? Because they wanted to impeach him before the election. I  am not making this up. They said that. 

  The reason the President never was allowed to go to court and  challenge the subpoenas that were never issued is because the House  managers understood it might take time. President Clinton and President  Nixon were allowed to go to article III court and contest the House's  action. That was denied this President because it would get in the way  of impeaching him before the election. 

  And you send this crap over here, and you are OK with it, my  Democratic colleagues. You are OK with the idea that the President was  denied his day in court, and you were going to rule on executive  privilege as a political body. You are willing to deal out the article  III court because you hate Trump that much. 

  What you have done is you have weakened the institution of the  Presidency. Be careful what you wish for because it is going to come  back your way. 

  Abuse of Congress should be entitled ``abuse of power by the  Congress.'' If you think Adam Schiff is trying to get to the truth, I  have a bridge I want to sell you. These people hate Trump's guts. They  rammed it through the House in a way you couldn't get a parking ticket,  and they achieved their goal of impeaching him before the election. 

  The Senate is going to achieve its goal of acquitting him in  February. The American people are going to get to decide in November  whom they want to be their President. 

  Acquittal will happen in about 2 hours; exoneration comes when  President Trump gets reelected because the people of the United States  are fed up with this crap. But the damage you have done will be long- lasting. 

  Abuse of power. You are impeaching the President of the United States  for suspending foreign aid for a short period of time that they  eventually received ahead of schedule to leverage an investigation that  never happened. You are going to remove the President of the United  States for suspending foreign aid to leverage an investigation of a  political opponent that never occurred. The Ukrainians did not know of  the suspension until September. They didn't feel any pressure. If you  are OK with Joe Biden and Hunter Biden doing what they did, it says  more about you than it does anything else. The point of the abuse of  power article is that you made it almost impossible now for any  President to pick up the phone, if all of us can assume the worst and  impeach somebody based on this objective standard. He was talking about  corruption in the Ukraine with a past President.  

  And the Bidens' conduct in the Ukraine undercut our ability to  effectively deal with corruption by allowing his son to receive $3  million from the most corrupt gas company in the Ukraine. Can you  imagine how the Ukrainian Parliamentarian must have felt to be lectured  by Joe Biden about ending sweetheart deals? 

  What you have done is impeached the President of the United States  and willing to remove him because he suspended foreign aid for 40 days  to leverage an investigation that never occurred. 

  And to my good friend Dick Durbin, Donald Trump has done more to help  the Ukrainian people than Barack Obama did in his entire 8 years. If  you are looking for somebody to help the Ukrainian people fight the  Russians, how about giving them some weapons? 

  This is a sham. This is a farce. This is disgusting. This is an  affront to President Trump as a person. It is a threat to the office.  It will end soon. There is going to be an overwhelming rejection of  both articles. We are going to pick up the pieces and try to go  forward. 

  But I can say this without any hesitation: I worry about the future  of the Presidency after what has happened here. Ladies and gentlemen,  you will come to regret this whole process. 

  And to those who have those pens, I hope you will understand history  will judge those pens as a souvenir of shame. 

  Mr. President, this is my second Presidential impeachment. My first  was as a House manager for the impeachment of President Clinton. I  believe President Clinton corruptly interfered in a lawsuit filed  against him by a private citizen alleging sexual assault and  misconduct. It was clear to me that President Clinton tampered with the  evidence, suborned perjury, and tried to deny Paula Jones her day in  court. I believed then and continue to believe now that these criminal  acts against a private citizen by President Clinton were wholly  unacceptable and should have cost him his job. However, at the end of  the Clinton impeachment, I accepted the conclusions of the Senate and  said that a cloud had been removed from the Presidency, and it was time  to move on. 

  During the Clinton impeachment, I voted against one Article of  Impeachment that related to lying under oath regarding his sexual  relationship with  Monica Lewinsky. While the conduct covered by that article was  inappropriate, to have made such conduct impeachable would have done  grave damage to the Presidency by failing to recognize that, in the  future, the office will be occupied by flawed human beings. It was  obvious to me that President Clinton's lying under oath about his  relationship with Monica Lewinsky, while wrong, was not a high crime or  misdemeanor and that many people in similar circumstances would be  inclined to lie to protect themselves and their families. 

  As to the impeachment of President Trump, I feel compelled to condemn  the impeachment process used in the House because I believe it was  devoid of basic, fundamental due process. The process used in the House  for this impeachment was unlike that used for Presidents Nixon or  Clinton. This impeachment was completed within 78 days and had a spirit  of partisanship and revenge that if accepted by the Senate will lead to  the weaponization of impeachment against future presidents. 

  President Trump was entirely shut out of the evidence gathering stage  in the House Intelligence Committee, denied the right to counsel, and  the right to cross-examine and call witnesses. Moreover, the great  volume of evidence gathered against President Trump by the House  Intelligence Committee consists of inadmissible hearsay. The House  Judiciary Committee impeachment hearings were, for lack of a better  term, a sham. And most importantly, the House managers admitted the  reason that neither the House Intelligence Committee nor the House  Judiciary Committee sought testimony in the House from President  Trump's closest advisers, including former National Security Adviser  John Bolton, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and Acting Chief of Staff  Mick Mulvaney, is because it would have required the House to go to  court, impeding their desire to impeach the President before the  election. It was a calculated decision to deal article III courts out  of President Trump's impeachment inquiry due to a political timetable.  The Senate must send a clear message that this can never, ever happen  again. 

  As to the substance of the allegations against President Trump, the  abuse of power charge as defined by the House is vague, does not allege  criminal misconduct, and requires the Senate to engage in a subjective  analysis of the President's motives and actions. The House managers  argued to the Senate that the sole and exclusive purpose of freezing  aid to Ukraine was for the private, political benefit of President  Trump. It is clear to me that there is ample evidence--much more than a  mere scintilla--that the actions of Hunter Biden and Vice President  Biden were inappropriate and undercut American foreign policy. 

  Moreover, there was evidence in the record that officials in Ukraine  were actively speaking against Candidate Trump and were pulling for  former Secretary of State Clinton. Based on the overwhelming amount of  evidence of inappropriate behavior by the Bidens and statements by  State Department officials about certain Ukrainians' beliefs that one  American candidate would be better than the other, I found it eminently  reasonable for the President to be concerned about Ukraine corruption,  election interference, and the behavior of Vice President Biden and his  son Hunter. It is hard to believe that Vice President Biden was an  effective messenger for reform efforts in Ukraine while his son Hunter  was receiving $3 million from Burisma, one of Ukraine's most corrupt  companies. 

  As Professor Dershowitz described, there are three buckets for  examining allegations of corrupt motive or action with regards to  impeachment. The first is where there is clearly only a public,  national benefit, as in the analogy of freezing aid to Israel unless it  stops building new settlements. The second is the mixed motive category  in which there is a public benefit--in this case, the public benefit of  exposing the Bidens' conduct in the Ukrainian energy sector--and the  possibility of a personal, political benefit as well. The third is  where there is clearly a pure corrupt motive, as when there is a  pecuniary or financial benefit, an allegation that has not been made  against President Trump. 

  It is obvious to me that, after the Mueller report, President Trump  viewed the House impeachment inquiry as a gross double standard when it  comes to investigations. The House launched an investigation into his  phone call with President Zelensky while at the same time the House  showed no interest in the actions of Vice President Biden and Hunter  Biden. The President, in my view, was justified in asking the  Ukrainians to look into the circumstances surrounding the firing of  Ukrainian Prosecutor General Viktor Shokin, who was investigating  Burisma, and whether his termination benefited Hunter Biden and  Burisma. 

  It is clear to me that the phone call focused on burden-sharing,  corruption, and election interference in an appropriate manner. The  most vexing question was how the President was supposed to deal with  these legitimate concerns. The House managers in one moment suggest  that President Trump could not have asked the Attorney General to  investigate these concerns because that would be equivalent to  President Trump asking for an investigation of a political rival. But  in the next moment, the House managers declare that the proper way for  President Trump to have dealt with those allegations would have been to  ask the Attorney General to investigate. They cannot have it both ways.  I believe that it is fair to criticize President Trump's overreliance  on his private attorney, Rudy Giuliani, to investigate alleged  corruption and conflicts of interest regarding the Bidens and Burisma.  However, I do not find this remotely an impeachable offense, and it  would be beneficial for the country as a whole to find ways to deal  with such matters in the future. 

  Assuming the facts in the light most favorable to the House managers,  that for a period of time the aid was suspended by President Trump to  get Ukraine to investigate the Bidens and election interference, I find  both articles fail as nonimpeachable offenses. I find this to be the  case even if we assume the New York Times article about Mr. Bolton is  accurate. The Ukrainians received the military aid and did not open the  requested investigation.  

  The abuse of power Article of Impeachment is beyond vague and  requires a subjective analysis that no Senator should have to engage  in. It also represents an existential threat to the Presidency.  Moreover, the obstruction of Congress article is literally impeaching  the President because he chose to follow the advice of White House  counsel and the Department of Justice and he was willing to use  constitutional privileges in a manner consistent with every other  President. This article must be soundly rejected, not only in this  case, but in the future. Whether one likes President Trump or not, he  is the President with privileges attached to his office. 

  The House of Representatives, I believe, abused their authority by  rushing this impeachment and putting the Senate in the position of  having to play the role of an article III court. The long term effect  of this practice would be to neuter the Presidency, making the office  of the President only as strong as the House will allow. 

  The allegations contained in this impeachment are not what the  Framers had in mind as high crimes or misdemeanors. The Framers, in my  view, envisioned serious, criminal-like misconduct that would shake the  foundation of the American constitutional system. The Nixon impeachment  had broad bipartisan support once the facts became known. The Clinton  impeachment started with bipartisan support in the House and ended with  bipartisan support in the Senate, even though it fell well short of the  two-thirds vote requirement to remove the President. In the case of  President Trump, this impeachment started as a partisan affair with  bipartisan rejection of the Articles of Impeachment in the House and,  if not rejected in the Senate, will lead to impeachment as almost an  inevitability, as future Presidents will be subject to the partisan  whims of the House in any given moment. 

  My decision to vote not guilty on both Articles of Impeachment, I  hope, will be seen as a rejection of what the House did and how they  did it. I firmly believe that article III courts have a role in the  impeachment process and that, to remove a President from office, the  conduct has to be of a nature  that would shake the very foundation of our constitutional system. The  impeachment of President Trump was driven by a level of partisanship  and ends justify the means behavior that the American people have  rejected. The best way to end this matter is to allow the American  people to vote for or against President Trump in November, not to  remove him from the ballot. 

  These Articles of Impeachment must be soundly rejected by the Senate  because they represent an assault on the Presidency itself and the  weaponization of impeachment as a political tool. They must fail for a  variety of reasons. First, the conduct being alleged by House managers  is that there was a temporary suspension on military assistance to  Ukraine, which was eventually received ahead of schedule to leverage an  investigation that never occurred. This is not the constitutional  earthquake the Founders had in mind regarding bribery, treason, or  other high crimes and misdemeanors. Second, the articles as drafted do  not allege any semblance of a crime and require the Senate to make a  subjective analysis of the President's motives. Third, the record is  abundant with evidence that the President had legitimate concerns about  corruption, election interference emanating from the Ukraine, and that  Vice President Biden and his son undercut U.S. efforts to reform  corruption inside Ukraine. 

  The second article, alleging obstruction of Congress, is literally  punishing the President for exercising the legal rights available to  all Presidents as part of our constitutional structure. This article  must fail because the House chose their impeachment path based on a  political timetable of impeaching the President before Christmas to set  up an election year trial in the Senate. The Senate must reject the  theory offered by the House managers with regard to obstruction of  Congress; to do otherwise would allow the House in the future to deal  article III courts out of the impeachment process and give the House  complete control over the impeachment field in a way that denies  fundamental fairness. 

  Because it took the House 78 days from start to finish to impeach the  President of the United States and, during its fact-gathering process,  the House denied the President the right to counsel, to cross-examine  witnesses against him, and the ability to introduce evidence on his  behalf, the Senate must reject both Articles of Impeachment. 

  I am compelled to vote not guilty, to ensure impeachment will not  become the new normal. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT