MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, may I just add to what Mr. Cotton from  Arkansas just said. It is dangerous. I think it is disgraceful. It is  irresponsible, and it is not going to work. We are not going to do  this. 

  I think people on our side are willing to go big. For Republicans, it  is not so easy in 1 day to spend all we are going to spend in a single  year. We are going to spend in 1 day about $1.8 trillion--probably  closer to $2 trillion when it is over with. That is as much as we would  spend in an entire year for discretionary spending. That is big. I  would like to go smart. If you are going to go big, you need to be  smart, right? You don't need to go crazy. 

  The only reason we are not voting on this bill is because the House  hijacked this process. Nancy Pelosi tried to control impeachment. She  tried to set the terms of the debate for the U.S. Senate in the  impeachment trial before she would send over the impeachment articles.  Do you remember that whole debacle? And as we were dealing with this  impeachment garbage, China was on fire. You will hear more about that  later in the year. 

  I guess what I would say is that we need to get on with it. You are  not going to be successful. We are not going to let this happen to the  American people. 

  Rahm Emanuel, whom I actually like, said: For every crisis is an  opportunity. This is not your opportunity to impose same-day voting. In  the House bill, they are requiring every State in the Union, whether  you like it or not, to allow same-day registration and voting. I  personally would like to do that in South Carolina but not to combat  the coronavirus. That is a dream they have. This is not the time to  enact that dream. 

  If you are on a ventilator or if you are a nurse at a hospital and  are waiting on medical supplies, please tell them you can't get your  stuff until the Republicans agree to same-day voting. They are  literally holding hostage the relief for doctors and nurses, for towns  and cities, and for businesses that have had to lay off their workers  for same-day voting, for corporate diversity, for $15-an-hour minimum  wage. If you get a dime of money in your business under the House bill,  you will have to pay your employees $15 an hour. 

  Literally, they are using this sad day in America to enact policies  that wouldn't have a snowball's chance in hell of getting through the  U.S. Senate. They see this as a moment for them. We see this as a  moment for you. They see this as an opportunity to do things they  couldn't do without the country's being on fire. 

  To my Democratic colleagues, I will work with you to make sure that  the money going to American corporations goes to the right people. All  of us don't want stock buybacks. All of us want to make sure that the  money is lent and not given as a grant to the big companies in this  country. All of us are willing to do more to help the States. We are  willing to work on the problem. We are willing to take your legislative  wish list and allow you to use this moment of crisis to turn the  country upside down. 

  I don't know why you want to do this, but I know this: If we were  doing this, the media would be eating us alive. If there were a House  bill that the Republicans were writing that did away with the right to  unionization, every major paper and TV station in this country would be  talking about how the Republican Party is going nuts in its trying to  take an ideological agenda and attach it to a national crisis that we  haven't seen since World War II. 

  So two things are going to happen. We are not going to give in,  because it is wrong. It corrupts everything about  why we are here. We worked with the House-passed bill that we didn't  like because we needed to get something done that was relevant to the  problem. 

  To the Speaker of the House, you see this as an opportunity to do  things you couldn't do otherwise. The Republicans see this as an  opportunity to do things that have to be done now in order to save  lives. 

  I have never been more disgusted since Kavanaugh. You tried to  destroy a good man's life just to keep the seat open. Close friends of  mine in the House have publicly said that this is an opportunity to  reshape the country in ``our image.'' It is not going to happen. We  didn't let you destroy Brett Kavanaugh's life to keep the seat open,  and we are not going to let you turn the country upside down to shape  it in your image. We will work with you, in a very generous fashion, to  help people who have lost their jobs and to help doctors and nurses who  have run out of supplies. 

  Shame on you. Shame on you for coming in at the eleventh hour and  taking good faith negotiations and throwing them in an ideological  ditch. 

  To the American people, they are going to give in because what they  are wanting to do should make you as mad as hell. If you have a family  member who is suffering, do you really think now is the time to impose  same-day voting? 

  With regard to student loans, a $10,000 loan forgiveness for every  student loan in the country is a debate we will have but not on this  bill. Let me tell you what it would cost to forgive $10,000 on every  student loan in this country--about $500 billion. Here is the question:  If you are going to spend $500 billion, wouldn't you want to spend it  on the virus? Wouldn't you want to spend it on hospitals that are under  siege? Wouldn't you want to spend it on businesses that are shut down  and have no hope of opening up anytime soon? 

  So we are going to hold our ground to focus on the people who need  the help the most. We are going to say no to an ideological agenda. I  can't believe that we are having to do this. What the hell has  happened? How could we get here as a nation? We have come a long way  from ``we are all in it together'' to this. 

  To my colleagues on the other side, I am more than willing to work  with you on unemployment insurance and on all of the things that are in  this bill. I am not going to give in to the hijacking of the  legislative process by the most partisan people in the country at a  time when people are dying. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT