Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693122/motion-to-discharge-sj-res-59


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this is a debate worthy of the body, and I  would like to give my belief about what we are doing here--my opinion.

Senator Kaine has introduced a resolution that basically requires  President Trump to come to the Congress before any other military  actions can be taken against the Islamic Republic of Iran. I think that  would be a disaster for the country. You can only have one Commander in  Chief, not 535.

Mr. President, you have been in it. You have been right close to the  face of the enemy, and you, probably above all others, know what  warfare is like dealing with radical Islam, and I applaud your service  as a Navy SEAL.

So it says in the Constitution:

The President shall be [the] Commander in Chief of the Army       and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the       several States, when called into actual Service of the United       States.

Well, they left out the Air Force because, back then, we didn't have  one.

Since the founding of this country, it has been understood that the  Commander in Chief can act as the Commander in Chief to protect our  Nation from threats; that he is in charge of the military. He sits atop  of the--he is the civilian in charge of the military, and it is his  decision to use military force.

It is Congress's decision to declare war. How many times do you think  we have declared war since the founding of our Nation?

I will give you the answer: Five.

Just think about all of the military conflicts that have existed in  the history of our country, and we have only declared war five times:  the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War, the Spanish-American War  against Spain, World War I, and World War II.

So to my colleagues, if Congress has only declared war five times,  does that mean all of these other military operations are illegal? No.  That is ridiculous.

Because we have power to declare war--us, the Congress only--it  doesn't mean the Commander in Chief can't be Commander in Chief.

This country cannot be put in a legal state of war unless the  Congress decides to do that, but to suggest that means the Commander in  Chief can't do anything without our approval makes all of us Commanders  in Chief.

Do you think they had that in mind? Do you think they really meant  for the Congress to be the Commander in Chief, not the Commander in  Chief?

The logic of this is as follows: Because we have the ability to  declare war, therefore, the President can't act unless we agree. You  have taken his power to be Commander in Chief away.

The War Powers Act of 1973, referenced by Senator Sanders, is not  worth, in my view, the paper it was written on. It was an effort by the  Congress back then to limit President Nixon's involvement in the  Vietnam war.

The way you do that constitutionally is that Congress has the power  of the purse. If we don't like what a President is doing in terms of  military engagement, we can stop the funding for that engagement.

Just think of the chaos that would ensue in this country if there  were not one Commander in Chief but 535, and we had to sit down and  talk among ourselves and debate as to whether or not we should go  forward with the military operation in question. That would paralyze  this country.

And this leak of the defense intelligence assessment tells you  exactly what would happen if they brought this problem over to us to  solve.

So it has been clear to me that only five times in the history of the  country have we declared war, and we have had hundreds of military  operations that the Founders never envisioned. The ability to declare  war means the President of the United States, as Commander in Chief,  cannot act unless we agree because that makes us the Commander in  Chief. And that is not what they were trying to do.

They were trying to make sure the country could not go into a legal  situation involving war without the body as a whole making that  decision. But when it comes to how to use the military, when to use the  military, we have a single person who does that. That is the Commander  in Chief, and that person can be limited by Congress's ability to cut  off funding for military operations they don't approve of.

So the War Powers Act, I think from its very founding, is  unconstitutional, but this is a case study of the chaos that would be  created if we accepted the proponents' version of this: that President  Trump would have to come to the Congress as a whole before he decided  to strike the next nuclear facility that maybe we don't know about, or  there is some imminent threat to our troops in the region.

That is just not practical, and that is not what the Founders meant.  They put a single person in charge of the military, and that was the  President of the United States. They made sure that going to war was a  group decision. And in this country, we have used that process five  times in 250 years.

So not only did President Trump have the constitutional authority to  engage in Operation Midnight Hammer; it was an incredible success.

If you look up ``obliterate'' in the dictionary, it means to destroy  utterly and wipe out. These three facilities were destroyed utterly,  and they were wiped out. They were obliterated.

Now that doesn't mean that the threat from Iran is over. The desire  of the regime still exists, and we will have to deal with Iran down the  road. But on this vote, I think, we all need to vote no because what we  are doing here, if we don't watch it, is having 535 Commanders in  Chief. That would paralyze this country.

But something, maybe, we can agree on very quickly: Since the attack,  the Iranian regime has gone on a terror campaign against their own  people. They have arrested at least 700 people for ties to Israel.  Dozens of people been hanged. They were basically drug out of their  houses and hanged.

``Iran turns to internal crackdown in wake of 12-day war.''

I will be doing a resolution condemning this regime's action. What  they are doing is they are trying to maintain power over their people  after this attack. People in Iran are getting fed up with the  Ayatollah. Instead of listening to the people and changing the behavior  of the regime, the regime is engaged in a terror campaign of  extrajudicial killings, imprisonment, and beatings to suppress the  people. And I think this body and the civilized world should condemn  what is going on in Iran right now.

As to negotiations to solve the Iranian nuclear ambitions, to try to  get a deal with Iran that we can all live with, count me in for that.  But you have got to remember, the people you are negotiating with, as  you talk to them, are killing their own people to try to keep them in  control.

I have got one idea. Before we negotiate with Iran, they need to say  one thing: We don't like Israel. We don't agree with Israel. But we  recognize the right of the State of Israel to exist.

The policy of the Iranian regime is to destroy the State of Israel,  purify Islam, and come after us, the infidels. Until they change that  policy, nothing is really going to work.

So what I want to hear, before we sit down and talk to the Ayatollah  and his henchmen, is that, for the first time ever since the founding  of the Iranian regime, they recognize Israel's right to exist. Is that  too much to ask?

Finally, this is the 80th anniversary of the end of World War II.  Eighty years ago this past month, the Nazis surrendered. And one of the  hallmarks of the Nazi regime was to kill all the Jews. Eighty years  later, we are having a debate about a regime that wants a nuclear  weapon to kill all the Jews, and we are wondering what to do.

You know what we should do? We should make sure they can't kill all  the Jews. We should make sure that this homicidal maniac, the  Ayatollah, who is a religious Nazi, is not allowed  to get a nuclear weapon and reign havoc on the region and come after  us.

It is hard to believe that 80 years later, we would be having this  debate: What should we do?

To my good friend Senator Sanders, your solution will lead to World  War III. You will appease evil.

World War II happened because people like Senator Sanders did not  stand up to Hitler. They did not choose wisely, and they did not stop  him when they could. That is exactly what is going on now.

Until this religious Nazi regime gives up their desire to destroy the  State of Israel, to wreak havoc on the region, and to come after us,  chanting ``Death to America,'' then we should stand up to them. I am  not advocating invading Iran, but I am advocating being tough--no  sanctions relief and don't reward this behavior.

Vote no to Senator Kaine's proposal. Stand up for the Constitution as  it has been implemented for over 250 years. And all of us pray for the  Iranian people and for our friends in Israel that better days are  ahead. And these better days only come with sacrifice.

And as I speak, people in Iran are sacrificing because they just want  to live free.