Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698616/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-air-plan-approval-south-dakota


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this is an important debate we are having,  and I will give you my view on how all of this works.

Under the Constitution, two things occur: The President of the United  States is designated as the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, not  Congress. So the Commander in Chief is one person, the President.  Declaring war is a duty of the Congress. In the case of modern times,  it requires 535 people to vote.

The question is, Can you use military force as the Commander in Chief  without a declaration of war?

The answer is yes.

There have been five declarations of war in the history of the  country: the  Spanish-American War, the Mexican-American War, the War of 1812, World  War I, and World War II. Only five times in the history of our Republic  has the Congress exercised its responsibility and right to declare  war--five times.

Now, does that mean that other actions taken by the Commander in  Chief don't exist where there were no declarations of war?

The answer is no. They do exist. We have been able to find 130  examples of a Commander in Chief using military force without a  declaration of war by the Congress and also without congressional  authorization under the War Powers Act.

One example is in 1989, when President Bush 41 literally invaded the  country of Panama. He sent ground forces in, sustaining casualties, to  take down Noriega, who was the leader of Panama, who was a drug  kingpin. Panama was being used as a drug safe haven when President Bush  41 authorized the military without having congressional approval to go  in and take him down--take him out of Panama and put him in an American  prison. We used ground forces, and we lost people in that endeavor.

Things like this, President Clinton used and threatened military  force to take a military coup in Haiti down and returned power back to  the elected leader of Haiti.

I could go on and on and on about how different Presidents have used  military force that has sometimes involved casualties without their  having congressional approval. So I don't want to hear anybody tell me  that this has never been done before. It is actually the norm.

What is odd in America is to declare war by the Congress. The norm is  for the Commander in Chief to use military force as he or she deems  necessary to protect the national interests.

The 1973 War Powers Act is a congressional statute, not a  constitutional provision, that has a series of reporting requirements  when military force is used, crescendoing with an approval process by  the Congress, and if that approval is not given, the operations must  cease.

In my view, it is patently unconstitutional. You are creating,  through the War Powers Act, 535 Commanders in Chief. The Members of  Congress sit in judgment over the Commander in Chief, and under the War  Powers Act, they have a veto under the law. I think that violates the  constitutional structure that has been around since the founding of the  Republic.

Now, what can Congress do?

If Congress doesn't like a military operation, the Constitution says  that it is Congress that appropriates money, not the President. So, for  instance, in Venezuela, if you don't want any American boots on the  ground, I think you could come forward and pass through the  appropriations process a prohibition of funds to be used to have  American ground forces in Venezuela. If you don't like the seizing of  the oil for the mutual benefit of Venezuela and the United States, you  could say that no money could be used on behalf of the American  Government to seize the oil. We would win the day because that is the  way you check what you think is an out-of-line action by the President  when it comes to using military force. You can do those two things.

What we can't do is substitute our judgment for the decision itself.  We can't all sit around up here and say: You know, I don't know if we  should use troops here or troops there. I don't like the way this thing  is shaping up.

That is chaos.

President Trump is well within his legal rights under article II to  use military force to advance the national interest, which is to end  the drug trafficking dictatorship of Maduro, which every Republican and  Democrat condemned, and President Trump finally did something about it.  He was flooding our country with drugs, and it was a safe haven for  Hezbollah and other drug cartels. Everybody said he should go. Well,  President Trump made those words real. He used military force in the  advancement of a national security interest of this country: to stop  Venezuela from being a safe haven for drug dealers and international  terrorists.

He has a plan to rebuild the country and eventually transition it,  through an election, to a new regime. Regime change will come to  Venezuela through the ballot box. In the meantime, he is threatening  military force to people who want to undercut this effort.

He is taking the oil and selling it and creating an account for the  benefit of Venezuela, which is basically out of money. He is telling  those people who are holdovers from the regime: I want to work with you  to get to where we need to go, which is to rebuild the country and have  a free and fair election, but if you don't work with me and you try to  undercut what I am doing, then you can meet the same fate as Maduro.

Maduro was an indicted drug guy. He had indictments for being a drug  trafficker. The argument is that this operation was to enforce the  warrant. It was more of a law enforcement activity because he was the  President of the country--not legitimate, by the way, and everybody  pretty much denied that he was the legitimate President when he stole  the election.

So the bottom line here is--the theory that some of my colleagues are  hanging their hats on is that this is legitimate because it is actually  a law enforcement function. I respect what you are saying, but I don't  agree. This is clearly beyond issuing a warrant. This is clearly beyond  using law enforcement power. The game plan is not only to take the  indicted leader of the country--who is a horrible person--and put him  in jail but to change the country in a way that doesn't threaten  America in the future, in that it will not, in the future, be a drug  haven for cocaine to be dumped into our country, and it will not be a  safe haven for Hezbollah and other drug cartels.

That is the goal. Well, that is going to take a while. That is not  about the warrant; that is about our national security interests.

People ask about ``America First.'' What does it mean?

Here is what I think it means: ``America First'' means that we are  not going to tolerate--in Venezuela, Colombia, Cuba--countries in our  backyard that are run by international drug cartel leaders, who are not  legitimate in terms of being elected, to poison this country; that we  are going to clean up the drug caliphate in our backyard; and that we  are going to use a combination of tools to do that, including military  force.

So there will probably be another one of these War Powers Act  resolutions. I want to tell my colleagues where I am going to be on  that: If you don't like what you see coming about threatening force in  the future to have a transition to make Venezuela free and fair and if  you don't like taking the assets of the country and selling them to  prop up a failing economy, then limit the President's ability to do  that by denying funding for those operations. That would be lawful.

The War Powers Act, in my view, is unconstitutional because you are  not denying funding; you are basically vetoing the decision of the  President to enact a national interest, and the national interest is  far beyond taking Maduro down and putting him in jail. It is about  transforming the country so we will never live again with Venezuela  threatening America by dumping cocaine into our country--killing tens  of thousands of people--and being a safe haven for international  terrorist groups like Hezbollah. They are aligned with Russia. The goal  is to make sure that it never happens again, and that will be a process  that involves military force, potentially, and diplomatic engagement.

What the Congress, I fear, is going to do is to limit the President's  ability to achieve that national interest by misapplying the War Powers  Act--by substituting our judgment for his when it comes to how to  change Venezuela.

The bottom line is, if you don't want troops on the ground--right  now, there is no need for them--and if you think that is a bad idea,  then let's pass an appropriations bill that denies funding for that. If  you don't like taking the oil, selling it, and putting the money in an  account to get Venezuela back on its feet and to help pay us for the  operations, then say through the appropriations process: No money can  be spent to do that.

That is within our lane.

The idea that we are going to reject the plan of transforming  Venezuela that has been drafted by the Commander in Chief because you  don't  agree with it means that he is not the Commander in Chief; we are. So,  if a congressional enactment can veto the Constitution, then we are  really off script here.

A congressional statute has to give way to the Constitution. The  Constitution names the President as the Commander in Chief--only the  President. The Constitution says that Congress and only Congress can  declare war.

After 250 years, what have we learned?

There have been five declarations of war. They are unusual. There  have been over 130 military actions without congressional authorization  that have used military force to advance the national interests. That  is the norm. The War Powers Act throws that into chaos.

So I look forward to future debates. President Trump has all the  constitutional authority he needs to execute the game plan against  Venezuela and to advance our national interests.

Again, if you don't like what he is doing, there is a constitutional  process available to you, and that is to cut off funding. The other  process would be impeachment. If you think he is doing something  unlawful under international law, you can impeach him. Those are your  two options.

So I will be voting against this idea, and I will be voting against  this idea in a new form in perpetuity because I think it creates a  constitutional imbalance of where the Congress, over time, becomes the  Commander in Chief, not the President, and we cannot run this country  having 535 Commanders in Chief.