Recognizing the Significance of Community College Month in April


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702124/recognizing-the-significance-of-community-college-month-in-april


Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am not on the Rules Committee. That  deals with the dummy thing.

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I yield back all debate time on the  Republican side.

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I call up my amendment No. 5281, and I ask  it be reported by number.

The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

The Senator from South Carolina [Mr. Graham] proposes an       amendment numbered 5281.

The amendment is as follows:   (Purpose: To establish a deficit-neutral reserve fund relating to the  apprehension and deportation of adult illegal aliens convicted of rape,  murder, or sexual abuse of a minor after illegally entering the United                                  States)

At the end of title III, add the following:       SEC. 3003. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RELATING TO THE                     APPREHENSION AND DEPORTATION OF ADULT ILLEGAL                     ALIENS CONVICTED OF RAPE, MURDER, OR SEXUAL                     ABUSE OF A MINOR AFTER ILLEGALLY ENTERING THE                     UNITED STATES.

The Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate       may revise the allocations of a committee or committees,       aggregates, and other appropriate levels in this resolution,       and make adjustments to the pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or       more bills or joint resolutions reported by the Committee on       the Judiciary or the Committee on Homeland Security and       Governmental Affairs of the Senate, amendments or motions       offered thereto, or conference reports submitted thereon       relating to immigration enforcement, which may include       legislation funding U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement       personnel to conduct apprehension, mandatory detention, and       expedited deportation of adult illegal aliens who have been       convicted of rape, murder, or sexual abuse of a minor after       illegally entering the United States, by the amounts provided       in such legislation for those purposes, provided that such       legislation would not increase the deficit over the period of       the total of fiscal years 2026 through 2035.

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, this amendment would create a deficit- neutral reserve fund relating to ICE conducting apprehension, mandatory  detention, expedited deportation of adult illegal aliens who have been  convicted of rape, murder, sexual abuse of a minor after illegally  entering the United States.

Over 4 million people, illegals, who came in during the Biden years  were released into the United States. Jose Ibarra was one of them who  killed Laken Riley. We have arrested 380,000 illegal aliens with  criminal records over the past 12 months.

President Trump has prioritized detaining and getting out of our  country or putting in jail illegal immigrants who rape, murder, and  abuse minors, and this would give us more resources. Everybody in this  body should be for this. These people need to be caught, put in jail,  or kicked out of our country.