Statement From Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina)


Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements.

Committee Oversight:

"The Judiciary Committee will begin holding multiple, in-depth congressional hearings regarding all things related to Crossfire Hurricane starting in early June.

"Our first phase will deal with the government's decision to dismiss the Flynn case as well as an in-depth analysis of the unmasking requests made by Obama Administration officials against General Flynn.  We must determine if these requests were legitimate.

"Our next area of inquiry, later this summer, will be oversight building upon the Horowitz report about FISA abuses against Carter Page.  My goal is to find out why and how the system got so off the rails.

"Finally, we will look at whether Robert Mueller should have ever been appointed as Special Counsel.  Was there legitimate reason to conclude the Trump campaign had colluded with the Russians?"

On Presidents Testifying Before Congress:

"As previously stated, there will be oversight of all things related to Crossfire Hurricane.

"I am greatly concerned about the precedent that would be set by calling a former president for oversight.  No president is above the law.  However, the presidency has executive privilege claims against other branches of government.

"To say we are living in unusual times is an understatement. 

"We have the sitting president (Trump) accusing the former president (Obama) of being part of a treasonous conspiracy to undermine his presidency.  We have the former president suggesting the current president is destroying the rule of law by dismissing the General Flynn case.

"All of this is occurring during a major pandemic.

"As to the Judiciary Committee, both presidents are welcome to come before the committee and share their concerns about each other.  If nothing else it would make for great television.  However, I have great doubts about whether it would be wise for the country."