-9999


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleague from Maryland  for his passionate advocacy for IDEA. IDEA is a critical program of the  U.S. Department of Education.

Let me tell you what is happening to the U.S. Department of Education  under President Trump.

We have a regime--that is what I call the Trump administration. It is  a regime hell-bent on dismantling the Federal Government. From  withholding billions in Federal funding to conducting mass firings of  Federal workers and shuttering critical Agencies with hardly any notice  at all, to implementing countless, harmful Executive actions, the Trump  regime has sown chaos, corruption, and cruelty from day one. It is no  wonder that there are now over 300 lawsuits to stop Trump's illegal  actions.

It is clear Trump doesn't give a rip about our government or the  millions of Americans who rely on the services it provides. That  includes the U.S. Department of Education, which does critical work to  ensure our country's more than 50 million--50 million--public school  students can get a quality education.

Instead of trying to strengthen the Department of Education's support  for our Nation's public schools, Trump and his allies are trying to  eliminate the U.S. Department of Education completely. This has always  been part of  his plan. He began his second term by summarily firing nearly half of  the Department's workforce. He did this in one fell swoop. These  committed people at the Department of Education were told: You don't  have to come to work tomorrow. So this followed the plan laid out,  basically, for President Trump and Project 2025. Then, just this week,  his Secretary of Education laid out plans to slash and dismantle the  Department even further.

Education is foundational. It certainly was for me. As an immigrant,  I came to this country not knowing any English. I didn't read or write  English. It is the education system that this country afforded me that  provided me the opportunities that resulted in my standing here, giving  these remarks.

So, while we can all agree that there are ways we can improve our  education system, we should also be able to agree that there is a role  for the Federal Government in helping to ensure that all students--50  million--receive a quality education. For decades, the Department of  Education has played that role of working to protect students against  discrimination and ensure equal opportunities in our schools.

Of course, one of the ways it does this is by supporting students  with disabilities. Signed into law in 1975, the Individuals with  Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA, protects the rights of more than 7  million students with disabilities across the country--7 million. The  IDEA helps to ensure these students receive free and appropriate public  education that meets their needs. It also provides funding--yes, we  need to fund the IDEA to the extent that is required--to help support  these students and ensure the oversight of services for students with  disabilities.

Before the IDEA was enacted, we did not have these kinds of Federal  protections for students with disabilities. As a result, there was no  way to ensure that students with disabilities were not denied access to  education or were not neglected in our schools. As noted by my  colleague from Maryland, many of these students didn't even get to go  to school. They didn't have IDEA.

So, later this month, we will celebrate the 50th year of IDEA--the  landmark law that has provided millions of young people with access to  a free and appropriate public education.

Despite the success of the IDEA and programs like it, this regime is  accelerating plans to dismantle the Department of Education and roll  back the progress it has enabled by moving important programs to other  Departments with no education expertise.

Recently, for example, Trump tried to take advantage of the shutdown  to illegally fire hundreds more workers from the Education Department,  including the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services  and the Office for Civil Rights.

Education Secretary McMahon--herself one of Trump's billionaire  buddies--has made the preposterous claim that the shutdown proved the  Education Department is unnecessary. This is the kind of  unsubstantiated--I can hardly believe that she would consider this  proof of any kind, but this is the kind of stuff that the Trump  administration always claims. The regime makes these kinds of  unsubstantiated claims on a regular basis to justify its ill-conceived  and often illegal acts.

In reality, I had constituents reaching out to my office during the  shutdown to share concerns about how furloughs of the Department of  Education were impacting Hawaii's public schools and the students they  serve, including the students with disabilities.

I heard from the mother of a 4-year-old boy who attends a title I  school in Hawaii. She was concerned about how the mass firings of  special education staff threatened the services her child received.

Every public school child who receives special education must have,  as mentioned, an individualized education program, or IEP--a plan to  help meet the unique needs of each student. But without the necessary  trained staff to support oversight of these programs, there is no one  to help guide teachers or schools in developing these plans and  ensuring that they are implemented or followed.

As mentioned, just yesterday, Secretary McMahon released a detailed  plan for reorganizing the Department of Education by moving dozens of  programs and services to other Agencies that do not have the necessary  staffing, funding, or expertise to oversee these programs. We can  expect that she will try to move IDEA too.

I heard from a middle school teacher on Hawaii island who emphasized  just how unrealistic Trump's plan is to move oversight of IDEA to  another Agency outside of the Education Department. He rightly pointed  out that other Agencies have ``no expertise in the complex education  law that is I-D-E-A.''

Education specialists, officers, and analysts within the Office of  Special Education programs are trained to best support IDEA. It is not  as though you can just move this program to Homeland Security or Human  Services and expect them to be able to provide the kind of support that  IDEA requires. Moving this program would mean a loss of expertise that  will not be rebuilt quickly, leaving our most vulnerable students to  pay the price.

As another example of moving programs out of the Department of  Education as part of the dismantling of the Department--I could not  resist this example--President Trump proposes to move the student loan  portfolio to the Small Business Administration, which has neither the  capacity nor the expertise needed to handle this massive program. The  SBA is one of the smallest Federal Government Agencies. How is it  supposed to handle a Department of Education program with over 40  million borrowers and over $1.5 trillion in loans? It can't.

Clearly, neither Trump nor Secretary McMahon see a Federal role in  education because they are just moving programs without figuring out  how these programs are even going to be continued. In fact, that is not  their intention. Their intention is to get rid of the U.S. Department  of Education, and they can't do that because only Congress can do that.  So what do they come up with? These alternative ways to dismantle the  Department.

Shouldn't supporting our public schools and our children's education  be a national priority? I mean, obviously President Trump and Secretary  McMahon don't think it is a national priority. Certainly, it is a  national priority in other countries. Why? Because these other  countries know, as I said earlier, that education is foundational and  that an educated populous is an engaged populous.

By gutting staff and funding that students rely on and attempting to  eliminate the Department altogether--a plan that will inevitably hurt  our students, no question--this regime's actions make it abundantly  clear that they don't want an engaged populous. One can't help but  wonder why.

This regime is not committed to public education. They are not  committed to public education. They don't see a Federal role for public  education, and that is the long and short of it.

We can and must do better to support the education of 50-plus million  children in our country.