Hawaiian History Month


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, earlier this month, the State of Hawaii  officially designated September 2025 as Hawaiian History Month.  Designated on September 2, 2025, the 187th anniversary of the birthday  of Hawaii's last ruling monarch Queen Liliuokalani, Hawaiian History  Month aims to recognize, reflect, and share Hawaii's true history. I  had the honor of recognizing the accomplishments of two pivotal Native  Hawaiian leaders, Edith Kanakaole and Mary Kawena Pukui. Both women  were chosen to be included in the U.S. Mint's American Woman Quarters  Program and Native American $1 Coin Program, respectively. Having  celebrated these pioneering women in their respective fields of Native  Hawaiian education and culture, I come to the floor to celebrate  Hawaiian History Month by highlighting three more Native Hawaiian  leaders that shaped Hawaiian history. These biographies are necessarily  brief, and I encourage my colleagues and all Americans to take the time  to learn more about these revered leaders.

Hawaii's last reigning monarch Lydia Liliu Loloku Walania Wewehi  Kamakaeha--Liliuokalani--was born in Honolulu on September 2, 1838.  Liliuokalani was an avid scholar and a talented musician, eventually  composing more than 150 songs throughout her lifetime including the  beloved ``Aloha Oe.'' When her brother, King David Kalakaua, was  appointed to the throne in 1874, Liliu--then granted the title  Liliuokalani--was named his heir.

Upon King Kalakaua's death in 1891, Queen Liliuokalani assumed the  throne and sought to amend the Bayonet Constitution--a document King  Kalakaua was forced to sign under threat of violence from a group of  predominantly American and British businessmen, which significantly  reduced the monarchy's power and disenfranchised most Native Hawaiians.  Fearing the Queen's desire to restore power to the monarchy and the  Hawaiian people, those same businessmen--supported by U.S. marines-- orchestrated an illegal overthrow of the Queen in 1893 and formed a  provisional government.

All the while calling for peace among her people, Liliuokalani  traveled to Washington, DC, to seek assistance in undoing the overthrow  from President Grover Cleveland. Despite her efforts, President William  McKinley signed into law a joint resolution of Congress annexing Hawaii  as part of the United States. Through the adversity she faced, Queen  Liliuokalani continued to petition Congress and advocate for the  restoration of the Hawaiian monarchy. Her commitment to the people of  Hawaii and her dignified resistance serve as examples of courage and  resilience for all Native Hawaiians.

Prince Jonah Kuhio Kalanianaole was born into royal lineage on March  26, 1871. After his parents' death, his uncle King Kalakaua took him in  as hanai son and gave him the title Prince. An avid scholar during his  youth, Prince Kuhio was also a notable athlete in football, rowing,  track, cycling, horsemanship, and marksmanship. He later studied abroad  in California and England. During his travels, he was hosted as a guest  of the Japanese Government. Following the illegal overthrow of the  Hawaiian Kingdom in 1893, Prince Kuhio joined an unsuccessful attempt  to restore the monarchy.

Years later, Prince Kuhio entered public service, representing Hawaii  in the House of Representatives from 1902 until his death in 1922.  Despite his nonvoting status, Prince Kuhio played a significant role in  shaping Hawaii's future and was a tireless advocate for the  Native Hawaiian community. He secured Federal dollars for the dredging  and construction of Pearl Harbor, helped establish Hawaii Volcanoes  National Park, and laid the foundation for Hawaii's modern government  structure and its county system, which remain in place today. Prince  Kuhio also established Hawaii's Hawaiian Civic Club, beginning a  movement of advocacy within the Native Hawaiian community which had  been literally decimated from a pre-contact number of 800,000 to 1  million, to 40,000 by 1920.

Most notably, Prince Kuhio championed the Hawaiian Homes Commission  Act, HHCA, landmark legislation that serves as the first expression of  the United States trust relationship with the Native Hawaiian  community. Enacted in 1921, the HHCA set aside approximately 200,000  acres of land to create a permanent homeland for Native Hawaiians, who  had suffered from diseases, the overthrow of their kingdom, and the  loss of their lands. Through the HHCA, Prince Kuhio sought to return  Native Hawaiians to their land and promote self-sufficiency through  homesteading on these leased, trust lands.

Prince Kuhio's persistence and effectiveness in advocating for the  Native Hawaiian community continues to impact the Native Hawaiian  community, especially through the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act. His  legacy lives on in the many Native Hawaiian families who have  benefited--and will continue to benefit--from his vision and  leadership.

Daniel Kahikina Akaka was born in Honolulu, HI, on September 11,  1924. Senator Akaka graduated from the Kamehameha School for Boys in  1942. Upon completing high school at the height of World War II, he  served in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from 1943 to 1945 and the  U.S. Army from 1945 to 1947, with deployments to Saipan and Tinian.  Following his military service, Mr. Akaka earned both a bachelor's and  master's of education from the University of Hawaii. He went on to  serve as a teacher, vice-principal, principal, and chief program  planner within the Department of Education. He later became the  director of the Hawaii Office of Economic Opportunity and served as a  special assistant for Human Resources, as well as director of the  Office of Progressive Neighborhoods Program.

Mr. Akaka was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1976,  where he served until May 16, 1990. He was appointed to the U.S. Senate  in 1990 to fill the vacancy caused by the passing of Senator Masayuki  ``Spark'' Matsunaga. After winning a special election later that year,  Senator Akaka became the first and only Native Hawaiian to serve in the  U.S. Senate, where he represented Hawaii until his retirement. During  his tenure, Senator Akaka served on the Committee on Armed Services,  Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, Committee on Homeland  Security and Governmental Affairs, Committee on Veterans' Affairs,  Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, Committee on Indian Affairs,  and Committee on Ethics.

Throughout his distinguished career, Senator Akaka was a tireless  advocate for Native Hawaiians and worked to ensure that the U.S.  Government fulfilled its trust responsibilities. In 1993, he helped  pass the Apology Resolution, which acknowledged the U.S. Government's  role in the illegal overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii and issued a  formal apology to Native Hawaiians. The resolution also committed the  United States to a process of reconciliation. Senator Akaka also  championed the Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act, which  sought to establish a pathway for Federal recognition of Native  Hawaiians and their right to self-governance, based on their unique  political and historical relationship between the United States.  Although the bill did not pass, it laid critical groundwork for ongoing  discussions about Federal recognition and justice for Native Hawaiians.

Senator Akaka's unwavering commitment to the people of Hawaii and the  Native Hawaiian community serve as an inspiration. His legacy reminds  us of the importance of humility, service, and steadfast dedication to  the communities we are called to represent.

Every day, but particularly during this month, we honor and thank  Queen Liliuokalani, Prince Kuhio, and Senator Akaka for their  extraordinary vision, leadership, and commitment to the Native Hawaiian  community.