Teacher Appreciation Week


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I rise in recognition of educators in  Hawaii as well as across the Nation who are dedicating--have  dedicated--their lives to the benefit of the children of our country.

This week is Teacher Appreciation Week. And as this administration  attacks education and educators, it is more important than ever that we  recognize our educators and thank them for all that they do on behalf  of our children.

I have spoken before on the floor of this body on the fundamental  importance of public education in my own life, having come here as an  immigrant speaking no English from very humble beginnings.

I thank my teachers at Kaahumanu Elementary School, Koko Head  Elementary School, and especially the librarian at Koko Head Elementary  School who awakened my love of reading. They helped me to learn English  and helped set me on a course that ultimately led to the U.S. Senate.

Today, teachers like Chayanee Brooks, an English teacher at Ka'u High  School and Pahala Elementary on Hawaii Island, continue to educate and  inspire Hawaii's youth. Chayanee, a Thai immigrant, is a nationally  board-certified teacher. And, believe me, to become a nationally board- certified teacher, one must go through a lot of steps. But this  certification indicates what an exceptional teacher she is.

She has been recognized as her complex area's Teacher of the Year, as  Hawaii State teacher fellow, and as a Pulitzer Center teacher fellow.  Just last month, she was recognized by the Hawaii State Teachers  Association for her work to engage with and uplift the work of the  voices of her students in her rural community.

Chayanee has said that her philosophy as an educator is simple:

Empower students to connect with their community and their       own potential through storytelling.

Chayanee has created a welcoming space for her students to express  themselves and share their stories through creative avenues like  journalism and documentary storytelling, where they highlight topics  such as family separation and mental health. You know that these are  areas that the students not only care about but have experienced in  their own lives.

In addition to supporting her own students, Chayanee helps train  other teachers to use storytelling as a tool to engage students in  their own classrooms.

She is just one of the many teachers in our country who go above and  beyond for their students and their communities. Teachers like Chayanee  do more than educate students. They are role models and mentors,  providing a safe, nurturing space for our children to learn and to  grow. That is why it is so important that we support teachers and the  vital--often underappreciated work--that they do.

We all remember during the COVID times that suddenly all our kids  were at home. Believe me, there were a lot of people appreciating  teachers particularly during that time. But it shouldn't just be at a  time such as COVID. It should be all the time that we appreciate the  exceptional work and commitment that so many of our teachers have to  our students' education.

But Trump and his administration are hell-bent on doing everything  they can to eliminate the U.S. Department of Education and undermine  public education in our country. He and his Republican buddies want to  take away Federal support for local schools, hundreds of millions of  dollars--in fact, billions of dollars--money that provides services for  students and parents, supports students with disabilities, and helps  keep our children fed.

Trump is also threatening to cut funding from schools that won't  comply with his draconian Executive orders--his obsession to stamp out  diversity, equity, and inclusion in our public schools; Executive  orders that direct our schools to stop teaching entire chapters of our  Nation's history like the Civil War, African-American history, and the  history of immigrants in our country.

That is just a part of the obsession that this administration has to  stamp out diversity, equity, and inclusion in every arena.

We heard from teachers, parents, and students in Hawaii and across  the country about the consequences of Trump's actions--the firing of  people, what they are trying to get our schools to not teach--and they  have told us in two words: ``It's chaos.'' Much like everything else  Trump touches and does, chaos follows.

Just this week, Homeland Security agents terrorized a group of  teachers from the Philippines living and working on Maui. They were  invited to come to Maui to teach in our schools for a period of time.  And despite these teachers being here legally in our country, the  teachers were detained by Homeland Security and targeted before being  allowed to go about their business. That is called terrorizing people,  plain and simple. So instead of supporting teachers, Trump is making it  even harder for them to do their jobs, and our children will be the  ones stuck paying the price.

A strong education system is fundamental to building a strong  democracy, a strong economy, and a strong middle class. At the heart of  our education system is, of course, our educators. That is why I and my  Democratic colleagues are committed to supporting our educators,  strengthening our schools, and ensuring every child--every child--has  the opportunity to  learn and grow regardless of where they come from, their income, their  disability--whatever their background. Every child should have that  opportunity to grow and, you know, really seek their dreams.

Teachers can make a lasting impression in the lives of their  students. In fact, I just had lunch with some of my interns in my  office, and one of them said that she will never forget the  encouragement from one of her college professors when she expressed  some doubts about her success at her school, which happened to be  Berkeley. This teacher said: You have a lot of years ahead of you. You  know, believe in yourself. You can take risks, but go forward. She had  a lot of years ahead of her to determine what she wanted to do with her  life. So this intern in my office found this to be very encouraging.

That is what I mean about teachers having a profound impact on the  life choices that their students make and how they think about  themselves in this world. So I extend my gratitude to every teacher in  Hawaii and across the country who continues to provide the kind of  teaching experience that enables our students to have faith in  themselves, to learn, and to understand that, you know, life has a lot  in store for them.

I hope that a lot of these students will become teachers themselves,  will become educators, and will be the kinds of teachers who will  provide the kind of support that every student needs and deserves.

So ``mahalo'' to all of our educators across our country for all that  you do both in and out of your classrooms and for the commitment that  you have to our Nation's children, our families, and our communities.