Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700513/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, the Islamic Republic is a barbaric, corrupt  regime that has murdered, imprisoned, and terrorized its own people for  decades.

As the daughter of Iranian immigrants who fled this regime, I know  personally what its violence means. Members of my family and friends  have been brutalized and murdered by the Islamic Republic. My  grandfather was imprisoned by the regime, and my family member  was beheaded by them. The horror stories go on.

Let me be very clear: I have spent my entire life opposing the  Islamic Republic and its brutality, and I celebrate  the death of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei.

At the same time, as an American Congresswoman, who swore an oath to  the United States Constitution, I am deeply concerned by President  Trump's decision to launch an illegal war--because it is, in fact,  illegal--against Iran without congressional authorization and without  presenting a clear plan to the American people.

War carries profound and deadly consequences for our troops, for the  American people, and for the entire world. It is the most serious  decision that a nation can make. The American people deserve debate,  transparency, and accountability before that decision is made.

The Constitution is clear: the power to declare war rests with  Congress. I want nothing more than a free Iran and safety and security  for innocent Iranians. That requires more than force. It requires  seriousness, accountability, and a real plan to support the Iranian  people in determining their own future.

Donald Trump has shown at every instance that freedom for the people  of Iran is not his priority. Every few hours the administration jumps  to a new justification or objective for this war, but never is a  democratic transition and self-determination for Iranians a part of the  discussion. This was echoed last night by senior administration  officials at the briefing to Members of Congress.

Ultimately, this vote is about the legitimacy of our democracy and  our Constitution, and that is why I will be voting ``yes'' on the War  Powers Resolution.