Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702168/harnessing-energy-at-thermal-sources-act-of-2026


My constituents and Americans across the country are struggling under  the rising costs of gas, groceries, and electricity from President  Trump's tariffs and endless wars. We should be spending our time  finding ways to lower costs for families. Instead, we are moving on  legislation that is just another chapter in the Republican playbook to  gut commonsense safeguards for energy development.

I am a strong supporter of geothermal energy. Geothermal is a clean,  reliable, affordable, and abundant form of electricity. Unfortunately,  I have to oppose H.R. 5587, the HEATS Act, on the floor today.

This is a complex issue. The bill waives the requirement for a  Federal drilling permit if a project starts on private or State lands  and then drills underground into Federal lands, provided the total  project is made up of less than 50 percent Federal subsurface land.

The bill says these projects don't need to do any analysis under the  National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA. They don't need to comply  with the Endangered Species Act. They don't need to comply with the  National Historic Preservation Act so long as the State has any law  that vaguely ``addresses the preservation of historic properties.''

The majority says that this is about reducing duplicative reviews,  but I see it as an irresponsible waiver of the Federal Government's  obligation to steward our Federal resources.

In practice, this means that in areas where the Federal Government  owns the underground mineral rights but a rancher owns the surface  rights to graze their cattle, or a farmer to grow their crops,  underground development could take place without that landowner  even knowing and without sufficient protections in place.

The permit to drill process is the process surface landowners use to  work with developers to make sure their lands and resources, like  groundwater they depend on for their wells or springs, are protected  when developers are drilling into Federal minerals.

We are not talking about developers just tapping into a few feet of  underground Federal lands. Geothermal wells can extend horizontally for  kilometers.

While geothermal energy is exponentially safer than oil and gas  development, that doesn't mean that developers should just skip their  environmental reviews altogether.

Landowners and communities have the right to provide input into how  public lands are developed, whether that development is on the surface  of the land or below it.

Again, I am a strong supporter of geothermal energy. It provides 24/7  carbon-free energy and creates good jobs in the clean energy economy.

For decades, geothermal energy was confined to naturally occurring  hot water reservoirs, but recent technological breakthroughs have  created next-generation geothermal systems that can be deployed in a  wide range of conditions at competitive prices.

At this rate of innovation, low-cost, next-generation geothermal  could soon be possible all across the country, not in decades but in  the next few years.

This could be truly transformational for our energy system. Paired  with wind and solar, geothermal can help us break free from fossil  fuels and build a reliable, homegrown energy system that we need to  fight climate change and tackle the affordability crisis.

I have a bill, the Geothermal Gold Book Development Act, that is part  of the package of six bills, three from Democrats and three from  Republicans, that the Natural Resources Committee passed out of  committee by unanimous consent.

These bills, including my own, would all help make permitting easier  for geothermal through commonsense ways like increased coordination at  BLM field offices, cost-recovery authority, and some categorical  exclusions that already exist for oil and gas development on previously  disturbed lands.

Those are the kinds of things that we should focus on that will  actually help move the needle on projects.

I have heard arguments that we should provide these waivers so that  the Bureau of Land Management's limited staff can focus on bigger  problems. I agree that staff in BLM field offices are overworked and  understaffed.

However, let's be honest about the situation. The Bureau of Land  Management doesn't have enough staff because the President continues to  try to zero out the budget for renewable energy, and former  Presidential aide Elon Musk kicked off across-the-board staff cuts.

You cannot break the system, then blame the broken system as your  excuse to waive the law. When we waive  those Federal review obligations, we end up relying on a patchwork of  State laws.

Under State laws, what happens to the government-to-government  consultation responsibilities required by the National Historic  Preservation Act or federally protected endangered species? What if a  State doesn't provide opportunities for public input or even public  notice?

Again, I strongly support geothermal energy development on our  Federal lands. It is a very promising and growing source of energy. But  instead of spending floor time on geothermal legislation that everyone  supports and could help stop skyrocketing electricity bills, we are  debating a bill to solve a problem that may not even be a burden on the  industry.

I am happy to continue to work across the aisle to advance geothermal  legislation, but, unfortunately, I must oppose this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, even good energy sources need good  permitting policy. I am a strong supporter of geothermal energy, but  the HEATS Act could undermine the on-the-ground support and good  environmental track record geothermal currently enjoys.

The HEATS Act empowers one set of landowners at the expense of their  neighbors. This bill allows developers to skip Federal permitting when  drilling from their property into federally owned subsurface minerals  which often sit under a neighbor's private property.

The Federal permit process gives surface landowners who happen to  live above Federal minerals a say in what happens beneath their homes.  What happens underground doesn't always stay underground. Drilling can  cause earthquakes and sinkholes or accidentally contaminate drinking or  irrigation water.

State laws do not always require the same protections for surface  landowners, especially if they are not the ones doing the drilling.  Without a Federal drilling permit, the Federal Government can't require  financial assurances from developers to cover the costs of cleanup if  surface damages do happen. That means landowners or Federal taxpayers  will be on the hook to pay for the cleanup.

This bill would eliminate real, meaningful protections for  landowners, not just red tape.

I am disappointed that this is the bill that the majority has chosen  to bring to the House floor rather than the bipartisan package of real,  commonsense permitting solutions for geothermal that the Natural  Resources Committee unanimously supported.

That package includes my own Geothermal Gold Book Development Act to  standardized best permitting practices across the Bureau of Land  Management to responsibly speed up geothermal development. I hope to  keep working across the aisle to advance geothermal energy, but this  particular bill is a step in the wrong direction.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption, and I yield back the balance of my  time.

Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 231,  nays 186, not voting 12, as follows:                               [Roll No. 137]                                 YEAS--231       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Buchanan      Budzinski      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Correa      Costa        Crane      Crank      Crawford      Cuellar      Davidson      Davis (NC)      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Fuller      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gillen      Gimenez      Golden (ME)      Goldman (TX)      Gonzalez, V.      Gooden      Goodlander      Gosar      Gottheimer      Graves      Gray      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Harder (CA)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Himes      Hinson      Houchin      Hoyer      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luttrell      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Massie      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDonald Rivet      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Moulton      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Panetta      Pappas      Patronis      Perez      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Riley (NY)      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Spartz      Stauber      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Van Epps      Van Orden      Vasquez      Vindman      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NAYS--186       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Bynum      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Gomez      Green, Al (TX)      Grijalva      Hayes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Mejia      Menefee      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Pelosi      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Sewell      Sherman      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Suozzi      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Veasey      Velazquez      Walkinshaw      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)                               NOT VOTING--12       Brownley      Crenshaw      De La Cruz      Dunn (FL)      Garcia (TX)      Goldman (NY)      Kean      Luna      Mace      Stefanik      Williams (TX)      Wilson (FL)

Mr. LEVIN changed his vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

Mr. GOTTHEIMER changed his vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''

So the bill was passed.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

Stated for: