Protecting Healthcare for Millions of Americans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698672/protecting-healthcare-for-millions-of-americans


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Rivas and Randall  for hosting this Special Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, I represent Phoenix, Glendale, and Guadalupe,  communities where families are working hard every single day to stay  afloat. Across this country, including throughout Arizona, millions of  families are struggling to afford basic healthcare. With costs rising  on everything that they need to live, housing, food, and childcare,  they have been through enough.

The ACA enhanced premium tax credits were a lifeline for these  families, but Republican inaction allowed these tax credits to expire  on December 31 because they don't care about regular people.

The consequences were immediate. For many families in Arizona, ACA  marketplace premiums have already more than doubled as a result of  Republican negligence. That means parents are skipping doctors'  appointments for their babies, seniors are reconsidering prescriptions,  and families are facing the very real possibility of going uninsured.

Take Cricket, for example, a constituent in my district. At 63,  Cricket is self-employed and not yet eligible for Medicare. She has  relied on ACA coverage for 8 years, paying $350 a month.

Last year, she suffered a head injury that required emergency care,  and ACA kept her bill around $1,000 instead of $10,000, saving her from  potential bankruptcy. She fears rising premiums. The ACA is her  lifeline, and without it, she could lose her home and everything else  that she has built.

Today, the House of Representatives finally voted to extend these  enhanced premium tax credits for 3 years. Despite 17 Republicans  standing up to Donald Trump and to their own leadership, I want to  point out that not a single Republican from Arizona's delegation chose  to put their constituents first and extend the lifesaving subsidies.  That is egregious, and that is unacceptable.

There is still so much more work to do, even after today's passage in  this House. We must apply pressure to the United States Senate to pass  a clean 3-year extension of these ACA tax credits.

Arizonans cannot afford any more delays. Let's be clear: Extending  these tax credits is necessary, but it is certainly not enough. We need  to pass Medicare for All. We are the richest country in the world, and  we pay more for healthcare per person than any other developed nation.

On average, we spend at least double per person as countries like the  United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and Japan spend on healthcare, so we  should be the healthiest. We are not. We are 48th in the world for life  expectancy.

Do you know, Mr. Speaker, what most of the countries doing better and  paying less than us have in common? They have universal healthcare.  Americans' physical and financial health depend on us doing the same.

It is time to take real action to bring down healthcare costs for  Arizonans and for people all across the United States. That means  Medicare for All before more Americans lose their healthcare or go into  medical debt.