Providing for Consideration of H.R. Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695106/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-stop-illegal-entry-act-of-2025


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, this week I offered four commonsense  amendments, several with bipartisan support, that would have made the  fiscal year 2026 National Defense Authorization Act stronger and more  responsible.

I want to specifically highlight two of these important amendments  for you all in the limited time that I have.

The first amendment would have included a penalty in law for using  artificial intelligence to impersonate Federal officials. This  provision is identical to a bipartisan bill I introduced early this  year titled: the AI Impersonation Prevention Act. I introduced this  bill to safeguard national security from the clear danger of the misuse  of AI to impersonate Federal officials.

There have been multiple recent incidents of AI being used to falsely  impersonate Federal officials, posing a very serious threat to our  national security.

Recently, an imposter using AI attempted to contact high-level U.S.  security personnel pretending to be Secretary of State Marco Rubio.

AI will only continue to be more powerful and accessible, so we must  act now to establish strict guardrails and accountability. That is why  we need this amendment.

As AI continues to become more widely adopted and more sophisticated,  measures such as this amendment will ensure that we have critical trust  in the messages and content we all receive on a daily basis and that  there are penalties for the abuse of this very powerful technology.

The second amendment I want to highlight speaks to a deeply  disturbing issue that we all, both Republicans and Democrats, should be  horrified by. This is about the Trump administration's deportation of  veterans and servicemembers, including an Iraq war veteran detained by  ICE in my district, Arizona's Third.

Veterans are the best of us, our most patriotic Americans. This  amendment to the NDAA would have required a study by the Defense  Department and other relevant agencies on the procedures in place to  assist noncitizen servicemembers with their citizenship applications.

Ultimately, this disregard for the welfare of veterans and  servicemembers stems from the top. I am disappointed but not surprised  that none of my important amendments were allowed to be considered on  the floor by House Republicans.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.