Pushing Back Against Ice's Authoritarian Overreach


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, I want you to imagine for a moment that a  person is going to the grocery store, grabbing coffee, or picking their  child up from school.

Instead of running errands or waiting for the school bell like usual,  that individual is surrounded by masked men who scream at them, shove  them to the ground, threaten them with weapons, and throw them into the  back of a car.

People are calling out for help, asking where that person is being  taken. Authorities refuse to answer. The person has no idea where they  are going, who these people are, or when or if they will ever see their  family again.

Mr. Speaker, imagine if you, or worse, your child, experienced the  terror, the fear, and the blind pain of being kidnapped off the street.

For many of my constituents, this is a horrific reality that they are  dealing with every single day. ICE is terrorizing our communities. They  are kidnapping people off of the streets, tearing families apart,  and destroying futures to meet insane daily quotas enacted by Donald  Trump.

Just a few weeks ago, Republicans in Congress passed a massive budget  that funnels billions of new dollars to ICE. This money makes ICE the  largest domestic police force in the United States with more resources  than dozens of militaries around the entire world.

This funding is unprecedented, and it is a free pass for ICE to ramp  up Trump's cruel and inhumane mass deportation policies.

They are already building concentration camps in Florida where they  are threatening to lock up legal immigrants and Latinos from across the  country. I have visited facilities like this.

On May 29, I went to the Eloy Detention Center just outside my  district. I met with women who wanted to and, frankly, were desperate  to share their stories with me.

One was a green card holder who had been pulled over for a traffic  stop. When they learned of her status, they stripped her of her green  card and threw her into ICE detention without another thought. She had  been trying to reach her family for months.

Another woman told me a story about a guard taking all of the women  out into the blazing Arizona heat. He forced them to march in circles  for hours without water. One woman fainted and needed medical  attention.

While they marched, the guard yelled at them: This is the price of  the American Dream.

It should not matter who these women are. It should not matter  whether they are citizens, legal residents, or undocumented people  trying to make a life for themselves.

It is shameful and embarrassing for our country that we would treat  any human being like this. The detention centers and the facilities in  this country are atrocious. They have absolutely zero oversight  mechanisms in place.

More than a month later, after formally inquiring to the Department  of Homeland Security and ICE about the conditions that I saw firsthand,  I have yet to receive a response.

People are being harassed. They are being dehumanized. They are being  abused.

Last weekend, I tried to return to Eloy to meet with several  constituents of mine who are detained there.

I wanted to meet with a woman named Yari who has chronic lymphocytic  leukemia. She has been detained at Eloy since February and has lost 55  pounds while in detention. She needs help.

I also hoped to meet with a man who has been coughing up blood for  weeks.

Lastly, I wanted to meet with a 35-year-old woman with a kidney  infection who says her antibiotics are not working and her condition is  worsening.

Even after ICE put in place new protocols to make it more difficult  for us to do our job and our oversight work, we tried to follow their  new rules. I gave them ample notice of my visit and a list of  constituents that I hoped to meet with. They let us know that our visit  was approved.

Then less than 24 hours before I was supposed to make the trip, they  changed their minds and said that my meeting with my constituents was  denied.

ICE is leaving families without answers and human beings without  care. They are doing it, regardless of whether people are undocumented,  legal residents, or even American citizens.

They are splitting up parents by sending them to different detention  facilities and then making children navigate the funds for a lawyer and  basic survival.

If I cannot get answers as a U.S. Congresswoman, how is anyone else  in my district supposed to? Any one of us could be next.

I will always stand with and fight for our immigrant communities. I  will do everything I can to push back against Trump's authoritarian  overreach.