Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691213/stock-trading-ban-for-members-of-congress


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of long-overdue  legislative measures to prevent Members of Congress from trading stock.

The original STOCK Act passed in 2012 bars a Member of Congress, the  President, Vice President, and high-level staff from engaging in  insider trading or otherwise using nonpublic information for their own  benefit. The bill also included important updates to financial  transparency by requiring these high-ranking government officials to  quickly disclose financial transactions to the public.

In fact, it is because of this bill's provision that we know that  Members of both parties are still consistently able to use nonpublic  information to benefit their own stock portfolios.

Incidents like these break our trust with the American people, with  our constituents. That is why I am so proud to cosponsor Congressman  Magaziner's TRUST in Congress Act. This bill would require Members of  Congress and their immediate family members to divest from individual  stock holdings or place them into a qualified blind trust during their  entire tenure in Congress.

In practice, it would ban Members of Congress from trading stocks.  This is just common sense. Members of Congress should be prohibited  from using nonpublic information for our own benefit.

Polling has shown that nearly 86 percent of Americans support barring  Members of Congress from trading stock, so this should be easy and it  should be bipartisan. The TRUST in Congress Act and bills like it would  prevent corruption and restore trust in Congress.

Before I was sworn in to Federal office, I made a personal effort to  sell stocks that I had and to ensure that my financial future would not  and could not be dependent on information that I might become privy to  as a Member of the House of Representatives.

It is about more than following a set of rules. It is about acting  ethically and respecting the power of the offices we hold.

In a time where the President of the United States is expected to  accept a plane worth hundreds of millions of dollars from a foreign  nation, respecting a moral code and setting a strong example could not  be more important. I am heartened to see my colleagues on both sides of  the aisle standing in support of this issue.