Big, Beautiful Bill


Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to talk on  such an important issue that faces our country.

Our country has been ailing since 2020, but, thankfully, President  Trump is back, along with Republicans in both the House and the Senate,  and we are ready to govern responsibly.

The prescription that will help heal our country and get us back on  track is the beautiful reconciliation bill that Republicans have been  working on diligently to get to President Trump's desk. It cannot be  overstated. Our debt crisis is out of control.

When I was first sworn into office in 2010, our Federal Government  had $9 trillion of debt. When I left temporarily in 2017, despite our  efforts to curb spending, it had doubled to $18 trillion of debt, and  now today in 2025, we are staring down the barrel of $36 trillion of  debt.

This is only going to hurt our children, grandchildren, and, frankly,  it is going to hurt us today.

Republicans' big, beautiful bill was passed out of our Budget  Committee just under 3 months ago and is already well on its way to  being approved by this body by Memorial Day.

The legislation that committees are marking up this week and next is  going  to usher in the new golden age of America by prioritizing a  revolutionary, conservative agenda that will improve the efficiency of  government and finally get a handle on runaway spending that has gone  unchecked for far too long.

This bill is going to lower taxes. This bill is also going to  increase border security and restore fiscal sanity back to the greatest  country on Earth. Gone are the days of prioritizing wokeness, frivolous  spending, and the leftist dream of open borders. Here to stay is a new  era of putting America first.

The American people spoke loud and clear in November. They are ready  for Washington to operate in a new patriotic and responsible way, and  our reconciliation package is the first step in that direction.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to be a part of such a  historic opportunity, and we as Republicans cannot let this opportunity  slip by. I appreciate our Speaker and the leader in the Senate working  together well and this body working together to make sure that our  country is strong, not only for our generation but for generations to  come, and continue to keep America great.