Rescissions Package is First Step


Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is no secret that Congress has a  spending problem. We continue to spend taxpayer funds despite our $36  trillion debt. This level of debt is massive, equaling over $323,000  per taxpayer when split up among the taxpayers of this country.

If that wasn't bad enough, when we look at this spending, billions of  taxpayer dollars are wasted on frivolous efforts to support programs  that have no benefit to taxpayers themselves.

I was excited to see President Trump taking an unprecedented approach  to curb excessive spending by our Federal agencies by establishing the  Department of Government Efficiency. Since established, DOGE has  illuminated the billions of dollars being drained on pointless projects  that do nothing to help the American people.

For example, DOGE has exposed million-dollar contracts, including $3  million to support ``Sesame Street'' in Iraq and $6 million for net- zero cities in Mexico. Funding for USAID programs is also frequently  going to NGOs that work to promote their liberal agenda in the most  conservative parts of the world.

Just imagine $1 million going to one of the cities in our  congressional districts and the impact that it could have there. It is  a disgrace that Americans' hard-earned tax dollars are being used to  support these programs and organizations under the guise of necessary  foreign aid.

In addition to this, Congress continues to prop up the Corporation  for Public Broadcasting to promote public media stations like PBS and  NPR. Taxpayer dollars should not be used to promote a narrative that  demonizes one side of the aisle or another. Yet, that is exactly what  these media stations continue to do. NPR and PBS have continued to have  an ideological bias, promoting things like critical race theory and the  LGBTQ agenda.

From foreign aid to NPR, massive amounts of taxpayer dollars are  wasted every day with little to no government oversight. Congress  cannot continue to let blank checks go out the door without revisiting  the way that these funds are used to help the American people.

This is why I am proud to support the rescissions package sent to  Congress by President Trump. This package will claw back $9.4 billion  of wasteful government spending, including $8.3 billion allocated to  dozens of wasteful programs at USAID and $1.1 billion to prop up the  Corporation for Public Broadcasting.

This rescissions package is the first step in ensuring that taxpayer  dollars are used to promote everyday Americans in very real ways.

I look forward to passing this first rescission package and look  forward to continuing to support the work of President Trump and the  DOGE team to identify and eliminate wasteful government spending.                       End Misuse of Emergency Spending

Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, speaking of spending, outside of wasteful  spending on international aid and public media, Congress has another  problem contributing to the national debt: emergency spending.

Over one-third of our current national debt, about $12 trillion, can  be attributed to emergency spending. This is an addiction that needs to  be remedied. Shockingly, money used on emergency spending is rarely  paid back and most is never used for actual emergencies.

For example, emergency spending during the COVID-19 pandemic spent  $70 million on tourism marketing campaigns in Puerto Rico and another  $6 million to replace irrigation systems at two golf courses. Other  emergency spending bills have dished out $140 million for  infrastructure improvements for Gulf Coast shipyards and $9.7 million  for an assistance program to compensate eligible orchard tree losses.

We cannot continue to use emergency spending to fill gaps in funding  that weren't properly appropriated to begin with. This spending not  only contributes to the national debt but furthers a spiral of spending  for the next fiscal year.

I am proud to have introduced my bill, the Emergency Spending  Accountability Act, to correct this gross misuse of emergency spending.

My bill will ensure that every taxpayer dollar spent on emergency  spending is fully paid back and accounted for over the following 5  years once the bill passes. Additionally, my bill would restore  integrity to the term ``emergency spending'' by requiring committees to  justify why these funds qualify as necessary, sudden, urgent, and  unforeseen and are not permanent.

These provisions will help to put Congress back on track toward  fiscal responsibility and prevent further abuses of this funding  mechanism.

I thank all Members who support this legislation, and I am looking  forward to seeing its progress through this body.