-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698823/9999


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I rise today because the United States,  once again, stands on the brink of a dangerous and unnecessary war, one  that neither the American people nor the elected representatives whom  they sent here to Washington have authorized and one that risks yet  another endless conflict that will drain our coffers and cost American  lives.

President Trump took military action against Venezuela without the  express consent of Congress. The Constitution is clear: The power to  declare war belongs to the people through their elected Representatives  in Congress. That authority is not optional; it is not symbolic. It is  actually a pillar of democratic accountability when it comes to matters  of war and peace, to life and death.

The Senate has now spoken with a clear bipartisan voice: Trump must  end his dangerous and illegal military action in Venezuela now. This  Senate must speak with a bipartisan voice, especially if there is no  prior congressional authorization. It must stop today.

If the Trump administration believes military force against Venezuela  is necessary, the Constitution provides a clear and lawful path  forward: go to Congress and make the case to the American people. If  President Trump cannot make that case, then he has no business  launching military strikes, killing civilians, and putting American  servicemembers in harm's way.

Even after yesterday's classified briefing from ``Secretary of War  Crimes'' Pete Hegseth, we all left with far more questions than  answers: What will this unending occupation cost the American people?  Why did the administration, led by Secretary Rubio, lie about regime  change? Which is next: Greenland? Cuba? Colombia? Mexico?

But one answer is perfectly clear: the answer to the question of why  Trump and Rubio did this. It is obvious. This is not a war for the  Venezuelan people. It is not a war for democracy. This is an illegal  war for oil. It is a coup for crude on behalf of big oil companies in  our country. It is just like ``The Godfather Part I.'' Trump made  Venezuela an offer it couldn't refuse. Capturing Maduro is the head in  the bed. We are holding their country hostage for the foreseeable  future until Venezuela gives up its resources. We are stealing their  oil at gunpoint.

Trump told Big Oil CEOs that he would help them if they paid his  campaign $1 billion just a year ago, and he has already given them  countless tax breaks and nearly unlimited access to our public lands  and waters, killing wind, killing solar, killing all-electric vehicles,  killing anything that gets in the way of the agenda of the oil and  natural gas industry in our country, and now--now--he is giving them  Venezuela. We know he told oil execs before and after the invasion  about his plans for Venezuela, not Members of Congress and not the  American people.

He said to the oil companies: Get ready. Something is going to  happen.

So the oil companies knew, but the American people did not. The  President would not brief the U.S. Senate before the invasion.  Secretary Rubio said that you can't trust the U.S. Senate, but they  trusted oil companies to know; that they should get ready and that  something was going to happen. On top of that, he is promising these  very same oil companies that stand to get rich by selling the oil that  they will get reimbursed by the American taxpayers whom they already  charge through the nose for their products.

This war is not for the American people. It is for oil CEOs to profit  off of instead of the American people. Chevron's stock? It is up.  Americans' stock? It is down. Their bill will be paid by everyday  Americans during the days to come as Trump tries to get us in a new war  without end.

The Trump administration must immediately halt further military  strikes in Venezuela, whether it is at sea or on land, and come to  Congress if it believes force is justified. If President Trump cannot  make his case to the American people and our elected representatives,  then he has no business using military force and putting American  servicemembers in harm's way.

So it is absolutely imperative that the Members of the U.S. Senate go  on record. We are going to uphold our constitutional obligation before  we commit our military to further operations in Venezuela. We must put  them on record before they commit our military in Greenland. We must  put them on record on the Republican side before our troops--our  military--are committed in Cuba or in Colombia or in Mexico. This body  must go on record. We must reclaim our constitutional prerogatives that  are built into article I of the U.S. Constitution. That is the job  which we must do, and that is what the American people expect from us.

Mr. President, I want to thank Dan Ohlstein for all of the great  service which he has given to our country.