50th Anniversary of Individuals with Disabilities Education Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697522/50th-anniversary-of-individuals-with-disabilities-education-act


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, this past Saturday marked 50 years since  the passing of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act in 1975.

Before IDEA, children with disabilities were often institutionalized  or excluded from classrooms, deprived of the support needed to achieve  their God-given potential. IDEA changed that by guaranteeing every  child, regardless of ability, the right to a free and appropriate  public education.

The IDEA said that every child--every child--is worthy of reaching  their full potential and that the Federal Government ought to provide  the resources to make that possible.

Massachusetts, the birthplace of public education, first passed a  State law, section 766, which established the high legal standard that  would be adapted  and expanded federally as IDEA. I was proud to vote for that bill,  section 766, as a State representative--one of my first votes in my  career. That bill then became the law for the entire country.

In the decades since the IDEA became Federal law, students, parents,  educators, administrators, and support staff have worked tirelessly to  deliver the promise of a world-class education to millions of students  with disabilities. But far too many students with disabilities are  still waiting for their shot at a meaningful education.

The Federal Government committed to funding 40 percent of the cost to  school districts of implementing the IDEA, but Congress has never fully  funded special education. Right now, the Federal Government is only  covering 12 percent of the tab, and that is unacceptable.

Now President Trump and Education Secretary Linda McMahon are  threatening the very foundation of public education. They are slashing  education funding, stealing from children to give tax breaks to CEO  billionaires and millionaires. It is Robin Hood in reverse. They are  trying to destroy the Department of Education. When the Department  first opened its doors, fewer than one in three students with a  disability graduated from high school--only one in three. Today, that  number is over 70 percent of kids with disabilities who graduate from  high school. But instead of fighting to make that 100 percent, Trump  and McMahon are attempting to send education for students with  disabilities back to the Stone Age.

In their ``Big Ugly Bill,'' Trump and the MAGA Republicans doing his  bidding also slashed Medicaid, which covers over $8 billion of school- based health services delivered to students. Medicaid funding is the  fourth largest Federal funding stream for public schools.

Two weeks ago, I visited the Campus School in Boston, which is a  school for students with complex disabilities and extensive support  needs. During my visit, I met Natalie, a middle school student, and her  mom Julia. Natalie has Dup15q syndrome, which causes serious  developmental, behavioral, and medical needs, such as frequent  seizures. Natalie requires 24-hour caregiving support.

Natalie's story demonstrates how crucial the IDEA is and how  devastating Trump and MAGA Republicans' cuts will be to families around  the country.

In April of 2023, Natalie and her mom moved to Massachusetts to seek  out a safe, accessible education for her, which she was not receiving  in her home State. The implementation of IDEA and outcomes for students  with disabilities vary dramatically across State lines. Now Natalie is  receiving the support she needs to flourish. Her school has set up an  individual education plan with goals for her academic achievement,  occupational therapy, communication, and motor skills. Her home school  district is able to access funding from the State of Massachusetts, the  IDEA, and Medicaid to cover Natalie's educational costs.

Her school pays $18 million each year to allow students like Natalie  to receive the highest quality and best-fit school placements out of  district. In turn, her school receives $1.7 million from IDEA funding  and $500,000 in Medicaid funds to offset those costs--around 10  percent. If this Federal funding is jeopardized, the school, Natalie,  and her peers, their educators, and their families will have no idea  how to continue providing the level of education that these students  not only deserve but are legally entitled to.

That includes the nurses, the teachers, the occupational therapists,  and the school staff who work with Natalie. It includes the assistive  technology that Natalie uses to communicate. Federal health and  education funding give Natalie her voice. It also includes the  transportation that Natalie receives to and from school each and every  day.

Natalie's disability does not preclude her ability or deny her the  right to receive an excellent education. At school and at home, Natalie  radiates joy because she is given the support she needs to flourish.  Every student with a disability is worthy of that same support,  inclusion, and joy.

Natalie's mom Julia, with whom I spent a couple of hours talking, is  among the strongest amongst us. Natalie's mother navigates a world that  is not yet designed for her daughter to thrive without ceaseless  advocacy and effort. Yet Julia says what keeps her up at night is  thinking of the thousands of children just like Natalie who don't have  the extensive support that her daughter has. I will tell you that Julia  needs that help. It is 24 hours a day. She needs that help that is  going to be slashed.

There are millions of students across America who are still fighting  for what Natalie has and what is promised by the IDEA: an education  that allows them to thrive. Because of Donald Trump, Linda McMahon, and  MAGA Republicans, that promise is moving further and further out of  reach.

At the same time, the education that Natalie currently receives is  under threat. Natalie, her mom, her teachers, her school  administrators--they all want to ensure that Natalie receives a world- class education, but a vision without funding is a hallucination. If  the Federal funding and protections backstopping education for students  with disabilities stop flowing, as insufficient as they may be right  now, we will see a nationwide regression. We cannot let that happen to  Natalie or to any child in our country. They deserve our Nation's  support.

As we look ahead to the next 50 years of the IDEA, our moral  obligation to students with disabilities must not waver. We must,  finally, fully fund the IDEA. We must forcefully reject the Trump  administration's continued attacks on public education. Ultimately, we  must make sure that every child in America--no matter what State they  live in--is given the opportunity to excel and to thrive.

This anniversary is a call to action. Children are only 25 percent of  our population, but they are 100 percent of our future. We must fight  for them every single day. Natalie's is a story that all of us must be  aware of.