Addressing the Homework Gap Through the E-Rate Program


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690803/addressing-the-homework-gap-through-the-e-rate-program


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I rise this evening in strong opposition  to S.J. Res. 7, the Congressional Review Act resolution that would  repeal the Federal Communications Commission's commonsense rule  allowing schools and libraries to use E-Rate funds--``E-Rate'' stands  for ``Education Rate funds''--to ensure that there is access to the  educational tools of a school or a library to every child in America,  and that would occur by extending out the way in which we view this  program so that Wi-Fi hotspots can be provided to students and to  educators so that they can use them even when they are not in the  school, even when they are not in the library.

If we pass this resolution--the resolution which the Republicans are  malevolently bringing out onto the floor--we are not simply undoing a  regulation; we are pulling the plug on progress in our country; we are  abandoning millions of students who lack the internet access needed to  complete their homework, to attend class, to reach their full  potential.

This repeal will widen educational disparities in our country, it  will deepen the digital divide, and it will slam shut the doors of  opportunity for millions of children in our country.

We should be doing everything in our power to close the homework gap  that exists between rich and poor in our Nation, not reopen it, not  make that homework gap even larger, making it more difficult for poor  kids to get access to these educational tools they need. In this modern  era, that absolutely meets the definition of a Wi-Fi hotspot. That is  the society of 2025. You have to move to that era.

That homework gap is the cruel chasm that separates students who have  reliable internet access at home from those who don't. It is a gap that  existed long before the COVID-19 pandemic, but it was laid bare when  schools closed and kids were forced to learn from kitchen tables and  living rooms. For some, the transition was difficult; for others, it  was impossible. For too many children, especially in low-income, rural,  and Black and Brown communities, they were locked out of virtual  learning because, simply, they lacked a basic internet connection.

You didn't have to worry about the families that had a good income.  Those kids had internet at home when their schools were shut down  during COVID. But you had to create some kind of a solution for kids  who didn't have that at home.

We saw the stories of the students sitting in parking lots outside  fast-food restaurants just to pick up a Wi-Fi signal strong enough to  complete their assignments. We saw families choosing between paying  rent and paying for broadband. We saw the urgent, indisputable need for  action.

In that moment of need, Congress stepped up. We passed, at my  request, $7 billion to help provide hotspots and other connectivity  tools to students and educators. Demand was overwhelming in our Nation.  We had a COVID shutdown. Schools were closed, and there was going to be  a huge digital divide which would open up because kids in the suburbs,  for the most  part, had access, but kids who were poorer--and, disproportionately,  they were Black and Brown--in our Nation did not. And we are still  reeling from the effect that period of time had upon young people in  our Nation.

The program, as it was implemented, however, helped nearly 18 million  students at 10,000 schools and libraries connect to the internet. I am  very proud of that. It was a big difference in the lives of those kids.  But that funding ran out, leaving millions of students across the  country at risk of falling back into the digital divide.

That is why, last year, the Federal Communications Commission took  steps to extend the reach of the E-Rate Program--a program that I was  proud to author in 1996 in the Telecommunications Act of 1996.

If I can take you back to that period of time, not one home in  America had broadband. We still lived in an analog world, not a digital  world. We lived in a world of dial-up internet technology. Broadband  had not been deployed.

So the legislation, which I am proud to have been the House author  of, along with Senators--what we did was we broke down every monopoly  that existed. The telephone monopolies, the cable monopolies--they all  were eliminated. Telephone companies could do what cable companies do.  Cable companies could do what telephone companies do. All of a sudden,  Comcast can offer phone service, and Verizon and AT&T can offer cable  service. So they need to deploy broadband in order to accommodate all  this information.

We are going to move very rapidly into a digital era, into a  broadband era, and it happened pretty much in the blink of an eye for  about 80 percent of our country. We are still working on the final 10  percent of our Nation, but for the most part, it happened by the year  2000, 2001. It was done. People had it. Broadband was deployed.

But what we did was we said to ourselves: We have got to take care of  the poorest kids in our country as we move rapidly on a technological  revolution. Yes, the economy is going to be absolutely exploding. In  fact, about $1.5 trillion worth of private sector investment was put  into that broadband expansion in just a 5-year period. It was  incredible. It transformed our Nation.

A 14-year-old girl today thinks that she has an entitlement to a 65- inch screen in her living room and a little digital device on her lap  at the same time. That didn't exist in the year 2000. It all happened  in the blink of an eye.

Now, what would happen, though, to the kids that didn't come from  suburban or wealthier families? So what I suggested was that we have a  program, an education program, so that every time someone made a little  phone call, there would be a little tax on it, and that tax would then  create a fund. I called it the education fund, the Education Rate, and  it ultimately just had a nickname called E-Rate. That is what helps to  provide for internet service in schools--in schools in Harlem or  Roxbury, MA, inner city, Washington, DC. That is what helps to  supplement that, to make it possible for every kid to have access to  the internet.

That program works, and so far, it has spent about $70 billion. It is  still the largest educational technology program in the history of the  United States--$70 billion, very profitable. But times change, and we  learn about what has to happen as we are changing the way in which our  country operates and new technologies get developed.

So, yes, we had that revolution from the 1996 act. I am very proud of  it. We called the companies that got created Google, eBay, Amazon,  Hulu, YouTube. I am very proud of that. We wanted a Darwinian,  paranoia-inducing revolution out in the marketplace. We would no longer  be tied to this old telecommunications system that Alexander Graham  Bell would have recognized. No. We were moving on to the future, but  with it, we had to bring along the young people in our Nation, and I  mean every young person had to have access to it in their school, at  their desk. So it was ensured to make sure that the schools and  libraries had the connectivity which they needed. That is essentially  what the E-Rate Program is all about.

But as the technology evolved, so too did the nature of education in  our Nation, and today, learning doesn't end when the school bell rings.  Learning follows students home, and so should internet access for  everybody--everybody.

The Federal Communications Commission's decision to allow schools and  libraries to lend Wi-Fi hotspots was not a radical idea; it was a  responsible idea. It recognized that in the 21st century, a student's  ability to succeed should not depend on whether their parents can  afford a broadband subscription. It helped ensure that millions of  students that relied upon the Emergency Connectivity Fund during the  pandemic wouldn't suddenly lose access to crucial connectivity at home.

In other words, the Federal Communications Commission learned from  what happened during the pandemic, learned from what happened when I  was able to move over the $7 billion for these Wi-Fi hotspots to help  kids at home get it, and they said: Well, do you know what we should  do? We should just make sure that no student is left offline. We will  make it a permanent program. And they passed that regulation.

You don't have to take my word for this. In study after study, it has  been shown that students without access to broadband internet at home  performed worse than their better educated, better connected  classmates. It is not that these kids are smarter in the suburbs than  the kids in the inner city. Those kids are just as smart. But you can't  allow an education gap because the kids who have access are going to  get a better education because they have access to the technology by  which young people in our Nation get their education in the 21st  century. So you have to make sure everyone gets access to it;  otherwise, without access to broadband internet at home, those kids are  going to perform worse than their better connected classmates. It is  not that their intelligence is less than the kids in the suburbs. It is  not that they wouldn't study as hard. They would. It is just that they  don't have access.

The Department of Education's National Assessment of Educational  Progress, for example, has repeatedly shown that high-performing  students had much better access to the internet at home. I don't think  you have to be Horace Mann--the founder of the public school system in  the United States--to think that that makes sense. Of course it does.

In 2023, a study of Michigan students found that a student without  access to home internet earned significantly lower grades--actually,  0.6 lower on the 4.0 scale--than their connected classmates. Not  because they weren't as intelligent. Not because they wouldn't have  learned equally well on their device. But you need the device. You need  access. You need a Wi-Fi hotspot. You need internet at home. You need  something that is going to help you to compete.

By the way, we have another word for those kids. We call them the  future of the 21st century in the United States of America. Kids that  are 20 percent of our population, they are 100 percent of our future.  We are living in a digital world, and it is a portable skill set that  every child should be able to take to anywhere they want to go in the  world for the rest of their lives. It will be a skill set that employs  them, educates them, makes them better citizens. But you can't reach  that stage if you are denying it to them when they are 6 years old, 8  years old, 10 years old, 12 years old, and expect them to be able to  compete with the kids that come from wealthier families. That is what  this vote is all about. It is all about that one issue.

When I was a boy, I had my books. I could take them home. My father  drove a truck for the Hood Milk company. I would take my books home.  The school superintendent's kids would bring their books home. I could  compete against them. Books are equal. That is not the world we live in  anymore. If you don't have the internet at home, the other kids  essentially have their books in their knapsack. It is called their  iPad. They have their home computer. They have access.

I am only here because it was books and I could compete against any  kid in Malden, MA, in a blue-collar community. That is why I am a  Senator. I had never even been to Washington before I got elected to  the U.S. House of Representatives. That was my first visit to  Washington. I am 29, 30 years old, but I have been competing because  you give me the books you give the kid  whose father is the school superintendent, and I will compete against  him.

As a matter of fact, I actually sit here at the desk which Jimmy  Stewart--``Mr. Smith Goes to Washington''--had in the movie ``Mr. Smith  Goes to Washington.'' He had never been to Washington. I had never been  to Washington.

But it didn't mean you couldn't do a good job if you had access to  the same tools that young people had in the best school systems in  America. That is what this debate is all about. It is about ensuring  that every child has access to the internet through a Wi-Fi hotspot if  they need it.

If the school, the library, says we have got to help them at home,  they don't have it--because that kid will fall behind the kids who have  it. And it won't have anything to do with their ability, won't have  anything to with their desire to be a full participant in this great  American experiment.

A study using Census Bureau data estimated that individuals with  greater access to the computer and internet at home spent 28 percent  more hours learning than those kids without that access. I mean, do we  really need a study of this? Of course not. We know that is the truth.

So as this evidence on home connectivity piles up, there is no  debate: Students without access to internet at home are seriously  disadvantaged compared to their classmates, plain and simple.

I identified with this because my father was a truck driver. We  didn't have trips to the Himalayas. We didn't have some kind of summer  school at universities to help out my brothers and me when we were 15,  16, or 17. But we didn't feel deprived because we had the same books as  the kids in the suburbs, in the private schools. We had the same books;  and I am going to study as hard as I can.

Today, that is not possible. If you don't have a Wi-Fi hotspot, you  can't do it. If you don't have internet at home, you can't do it. You  might want to do it, but you can't do it. And by the way, they know  they don't have it. They can see the kids on the other side of town who  have it. They know it. They are 9; they are 10; they are 11; they are  12. They know it. That is what this program is all about. It is just to  say: You have got it; you have got it at home. Go to it. Be whoever you  can be.

These Republicans, they are going to vote this program out of  existence. This is the great equalizer. This is the access to  opportunity. This is democratization of access to opportunity through  education, which is supposed to be the foundation of our country.

You know, when I grew up, I would look at Abe Lincoln and his story.  I would look at the movies about Abe Lincoln. He would be reading books  by candlelight in his house on the prairie. That is all you needed, was  the light, because the book was there. You could do it.

Well, without a Wi-Fi hotspot, there is nothing to read. Your device  is not working. You are denying that ambitious, hard-working,  imaginative, creative young person--by the way, disproportionately  Black and Brown in our Nation--from having the same opportunities that  we have provided for 250 years since the dawn of our country.

So we are putting these young people at a serious disadvantage  compared to their classmates. So now my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle, they want to just take that tool away. They want to rip the  hotspots out of students' hands. Why? Let's just listen to a few of  their arguments.

First, the Congressional Review Act supporters say: The hotspots rule  is illegal.

This is simply untrue. It is not illegal.

In section 254 of the Communications Act, Congress provided the FCC  with flexibility to adapt the E-Rate program for changing times and  educational conditions. How do I know? I am the author of that  provision. So when people tell me it is illegal, it is not illegal. I  wrote the provision which says the Federal Communications Commission  can do this for the children of our Nation.

Second, the Congressional Review Act supporters argue that the  hotspots rule endangers students by allowing them to access  inappropriate content, including on social media.

False. That is also not true. Under the Children's Internet  Protection Act, schools and libraries receiving E-Rate dollars must  ensure that hotspots block or filter images that are obscene or harmful  to minors.

By the way, with all the crocodile tears coming down from my  colleagues on the other side about their concern for children, I have  had a children's online privacy protection act pending here in the  Senate for years that gives total privacy protection to children under  the age of 17 in our Nation, and we can't get it passed.

Why can't we get it passed? Because too many Republicans are  concerned about what the big social media companies might say to them.

Well, where is their concern, then, for the poor child being exposed?  Not there. They should be more concerned about what Meta is doing to  them, what Google is doing to them, what those big companies are  doing--because, under the law, it can't happen under the E-Rate  dollars. It can't happen. It is illegal. We need another law to pass  that makes it illegal to let the big social media companies in our  country do the same thing.

If my colleagues are really so concerned about children's online  privacy and safety, I urge them to support my legislation--if they care  about it--because that would block it.

Third, they say that the program is wasteful.

That is false. Again, the hotspots rule limits the amount of money  that can be requested by an E-Rate applicant and prohibits the  duplication of the funding. It is all written into the law.

Let me be clear: This repeal will not save the taxpayer a dime. What  does the resolution really do? It doesn't make our schools stronger. It  doesn't make our libraries better. It doesn't improve student outcomes.  It doesn't lower your taxes. It doesn't save the government money. All  it does is strip away a lifeline for the children in our Nation who  need it the most, that they can take it home with them, that they can  study at home. That is it.

So this E-Rate expansion didn't just connect students; it connected  futures. It helped make good on the promise that every child,  regardless of their income, their race, their geography deserves a fair  shot at learning, and that promise is worth defending. It is worth  defending.

Education is a great equalizer. It is the foundation of our  democracy, the engine of our economy, and the heartbeat of our shared  American dream that any child, regardless of where they come from,  regardless of who their mother and father is, can dream the great  dreams. But we have to give them access to the tools they need in order  to maximize all of their God-given abilities.

In today's world, to be cut off from the digital world is to be cut  off from education. And that means that broadband is not a luxury; it  is a necessity. It is an essential tool as much as a textbook or  schoolbus or a lunch program. This is not a partisan issue. It is not a  liberal issue. It is not a conservative issue. It is a children's  issue. It is an American issue. It is who we should be. It is a  fairness issue.

I urge my colleagues to not vote to deepen inequality. Instead, vote  to affirm our values. Vote to defend every child's right to learn, to  thrive, to reach for the stars. Let's reject this resolution and  recommit ourselves to closing the homework gap so that all children  have equal access to learning.