H.R. 5100


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698329/hr-5100


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I was prepared to come to the floor today  to seek unanimous consent to pass H.R. 5100, a bill to temporarily  extend the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business  Technology Transfer Programs until September 30, 2026.

However, because Senator Ernst is unavailable to state her objection  to the bill, I have decided not to call for unanimous consent at this  time.

I want to express my condolences to Senator Ernst, a combat veteran  who served in the Iowa National Guard, for the tragedy in Syria that  killed two and injured three Iowa National Guard members.

The bill I would have brought to the floor today would have re-opened  the SBIR and STTR programs, which have been shut down now for more than  70 days. The bill was unanimously passed by the House, led by the  Republican chairs of the House Small Business Committee and House  Science Committee.

Since the SBIR and STTR programs closed their doors, I have heard  from hundreds of small businesses across the country that are being  forced to lay off employees, cease critical research, and may soon have  to close their doors for good. Passing H.R. 5100 is not just a matter  of policy; it is about whether small innovative companies can survive.  This is the only real path that will immediately reopen this program  while we continue to negotiate. Each day the program is shut down, the  further behind our innovation economy falls.

The fate of this program lies in the hands of six negotiators: the  chair and ranking member of the Senate Small Business Committee, the  chair and ranking member of the House Small Business Committee, and the  chair and ranking member of the House Science  Committee. Five of these six negotiators agree that the best path  forward is to temporarily extend the SBIR and STTR programs, to keep  them running while we continue to negotiate reforms and a longer  reauthorization. We have been working to try and find a path forward  for a long-term reauthorization and will continue to do so, but we have  yet to find a solution that does not irreparably harm innovative small  businesses, nor have we found a solution that meaningfully addresses  foreign due diligence concerns. The SBIR and STTR programs have  produced technologies that have changed Americans' lives: the world's  smallest heart pump, new cancer therapies, Alzheimer Disease  treatments, GPS, and Qualcomm wireless communications systems.

I am disappointed that these programs have been forced to shut down,  ending funding for the most cutting-edge technologies being developed  by our most nimble allies, small businesses. I am disappointed that a  company in Pennsylvania may have to cease scaling their patented brake  technology due to the lapse in the programs. I am disappointed that a  company in Virginia producing the next generation of energy  technologies is being forced to put their research on hold until these  programs are re-opened. And I am disappointed that a company in Texas  must put its progress towards unlocking unprecedented spacecraft  maneuvering for our Agencies on hold.

Just because we are unable to come to a long-term solution today does  not mean we should decimate a critical part of our innovation ecosystem  by keeping these programs closed. In May, I introduced a 52-page bill  with my long-term vision for the programs. I want to provide small  businesses with the certainty they deserve by making the programs  permanent, ensuring we do not watch the clock hit zero like this again.

I want to increase how much Agencies are required to allocate for  these programs to maximize our innovation potential. I want to  strengthen our commercialization efforts through allowing direct to  phase II authority for all Agencies, as well as better data collection,  better training, and specifically designated commercialization  officers. I want to increase the number of new entrants by  reauthorizing and codifying new programs that aim to reach underserved  populations. And, like all of my colleagues, I want to make sure that  our technology never falls into the hands of our adversaries.

That is why I want to continue the bipartisan foreign due diligence  program enacted in 2022, which has already successfully identified and  mitigated foreign risk in its short period of implementation. If it  were just up to me, I would want my bill to pass tomorrow. However, I  understand that is not possible. That is why I have joined the four  House negotiators in supporting a temporary extension while we figure  out the long-term path forward that not only preserves our innovation  ecosystem but supercharges it.

As a long-time champion of the SBIR and STTR programs, I will  continue to fight to protect the innovation ecosystem and the small  businesses that support it.