Healthcare


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697772/healthcare


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, today, I rise in support of the  legislation that is going to be considered here on the Senate floor  tomorrow to extend the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax credits  so that we can lower the healthcare costs for 22 million Americans.

Those Americans get that protection today. If the Republicans do not  vote for that protection to be continued tomorrow, then 22 million  Americans and their families are going to see a dramatic rise in their  healthcare bills beginning the end of this year. This threat is looming  over those families. It is 22 million Americans.

By the way, it is 10 million Americans who either own small  businesses or work in small businesses. So we are talking about Main  Street America. Ten million of the 22 million people actually work for  small businesses in America, so for them, this is going to be a bill  that they are going to be receiving in the mail. And we are talking  Main Street America. We are talking Republicans turning Main Street  into ``Pain Street'' for 10 million small business employees and  owners.

Tomorrow is the Republicans' opportunity not to see this dramatic  rise, this skyrocketing price, be passed on to them. It is going to be  devastating to them. These are not rich people, these small business  workers and owners. They go week to week. They go month to month. These  aren't big businesspeople; these are small businesses. They are Main  Street people, and they are about to get crushed. That is the vote that  the Republicans are going to cast tomorrow.

It is going to lead to a $1,000, $2,000, $3,000, $4,000, $5,000,  $10,000 a year increase in the premiums they have to pay for the  coverage for their families. It is going to be devastating to those  families.

The very fact that President Trump and the Republicans are only just  allowing a vote on continuing these critical tax credits just 2 weeks  before all these families have to make their decision--it is only 2  weeks to go, and then they have to send the check in to get the  coverage for January 1. So the Republicans have waited until 2 weeks  left to go.

In Massachusetts, it is December 23. That is the last day, and people  have to send in the check to cover. It is 2 days before Christmas. Can  you imagine 22 million families all trying to figure out how they are  going to write that check for a dramatic increase in their healthcare 2  days before Christmas? That is what the Republicans are setting up  across our country--22 million people who are all going to have this  financial bomb go off on their kitchen tables. It is going to make it  harder to buy presents. It is going to make it harder for these  families actually to plan for 2026. And it is all because these  Republicans aren't willing to do it.

Honestly, it just shows how unserious the Republicans are about  addressing affordability for families at the kitchen table. The cost of  living in this country is skyrocketing. And it is not just the  healthcare bill for these 22 million people; healthcare across the  country is skyrocketing--just skyrocketing. Instead of trying to deal  with it, the Republicans are doing nothing--nothing--to solve the  problem.

It is no surprise because the Republicans have harbored an ancient  animosity toward all these Federal healthcare programs. The Republicans  voted no on Social Security in 1935. They voted no on Medicare. They  voted no Medicaid. They voted no on the Affordable Care Act. Today,  they are trying to destroy the vaccine regime we have in our country.  They are withholding by the billions research on cancer, Alzheimer's,  diabetes, Parkinson's, and other diseases that need more research. They  are pulling back the funding for that. That is what they are leaving as  a legacy for families this Christmas in our country. Ultimately, health  is the first wealth. That is what Ralph Waldo Emerson, the great  Massachusetts poet, said. That is what the Republicans are now trying  to loot on behalf of their billionaire buddies, because all the money  is just going to be shuffled off to billionaires.

So this is without question just a continuation of their efforts.  They tried to stop Medicare. They tried to stop Social Security. They  tried and they failed to kill the Affordable Care Act. Now they are  trying to eliminate the tax credits that help people afford their  health insurance.

In Massachusetts, for example, it is 60,000 small businesses and  their owners who rely on these tax credits to afford health insurance  for themselves and their families.

Here is what Trump says. Trump says affordability is a ``hoax.'' He  is saying to these families: What you are now saying is a hoax.

He has called affordability a ``con job.'' But the only hoax, the  only con job is Trump and the Republicans repeatedly promising a  cheaper alternative to the Affordable Care Act and instead offering  nothing--absolutely nothing. That is where they have been.

The Affordable Care Act went on the books in 2010. For 15 years, they  have been promising that they would have an alternative.

There used to be a television show, ``Perry Mason,'' and he was a  lawyer. He always had very difficult cases, and in the final 5 minutes  of each one of the shows, Della Street, his great associate, would show  up with the critical evidence that would then solve the case.

Well, it has been 15 years, and we have been waiting for the  Republican Della Street to show up with the paper, with the document  that is going to solve this healthcare crisis that the Republicans,  with crocodile tears, year after year say that they care so much about.  And they are not going to show up with a plan.

There is a great play, ``Waiting for Godot.'' Of course, at the end  of ``Waiting for Godot,'' Godot never shows up. And this healthcare  solution that the Republicans have been promising for 15 years--it is  not going to show up tomorrow. As a result, 22 million Americans are  going to lose their coverage. They are going to have to pay  exorbitantly higher prices for their healthcare coverage than they have  to pay today.

So this week, Trump, in a self-grading exercise, graded his economy  an A+++++. That is five pluses that Donald Trump gave himself. But I  think  most Americans right now are giving him an F. Why? I will tell you  simply. The cost of groceries is up. The cost of electricity is way up.  The cost of housing is way up. The cost of healthcare, because of  Republicans, is way up, and they are even going to complicate it more  tomorrow.

They are going to have their own scarlet letter for the next year  that they are going to have to walk around with--an ``H'' for  healthcare--on their forehead, because they are just going to be  branding themselves, as opposed to providing the healthcare for all  these hard-working families across our country.

And when the backbone of our economy, small businesses, can no longer  afford their premiums, they will make tough decisions about hiring,  about growing, or even closing their doors for good--turning, again,  Main Streets all across our country into ``Pain Streets.'' And it is  all going to be in the mail in just the next 2 weeks, right before  Christmas.

To me, it is almost unimaginable. It takes Scrooge, and it gives a  whole new meaning to it in terms of what they are about to deliver as  coal in the stockings of 22 million American families. They were  expecting a lot more, and that is not what they are about to receive.

And so despite the fact that these costs are going up under the Trump  administration, despite the fact that they plundered a trillion dollars  from Medicaid, just back in July, to give a tax break to CEO  billionaires, despite the fact that reckless tariffs are decimating our  small businesses to the tune of $38 billion a year, somehow, OMB  Director Russell Vought wants to fund the Department of Defense at more  than $1 trillion. Pete Hegseth declared it would be the Defense  Department's first trillion-dollar budget.

They are so proud. More nuclear weapons, more capacity just to blow  up the whole world. They are very proud of that. They are very proud of  the trillion dollars that they are now stealing from Medicaid, from the  healthcare of every family that needs it. They are very proud of the  tax breaks by the trillions that they are giving to millionaires and  billionaires in our country.

But when it comes to just making sure people in our country, this  Christmas, don't see a dramatic spike in the price of healthcare for  them and their families, they are going: Sorry, I don't have any money.

And there is good reason. They are giving it to the Defense  Department. They are giving it to millionaires and billionaires. Of  course, they don't have any money.

Somebody has to pay for it, and the bill is going to be one that 22  million American families write to get their healthcare coverage for  January 1, and it is going to be a skyrocketingly higher number than it  was just this week.

So Donald Trump and his congressional Republicans, they just can't  seem to find anything to help working families and grandma and grandpa,  but they can find it for the billionaires. They can find it for the  defense contractors.

And you want to talk about waste and fraud. Just look at the defense  budget. You just look at it. It is just loaded with waste and fraud,  but they aren't going to look there.

They are looking at the pockets of ordinary families in our country,  and they are going to tip them upside down and shake the money out of  their pockets, 2 days before Christmas, and make them pay more money in  order to get the health coverage that their families need.

So the Republicans just care more about ``wealthcare'' than they do  about healthcare. They care more about caring for the wealth of the  richest than they do about the healthcare for every family in our  country.

And at every opportunity, Republicans are looting healthcare from  families and small businesses in order to pay for tax breaks for people  who already have too much. They are robbing the American people, and  they are asking the Democrats to drive the getaway car--that we should  be voting to take away healthcare from ordinary families to pay for  these tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires.

But let me just say right now, the Democrats refuse to be accomplices  to this healthcare crime of destroying Americans' lives and their  livelihoods and their health.

The consequences are real, and they are happening right now. In the  face of skyrocketing premiums, 10,000 people in Massachusetts have  already dropped their affordable care coverage for next year. That is  unbelievable. And there are going to be tens of thousands more who will  be following them. That is just in Massachusetts. That is already  double the number of residents who typically drop coverage in a year.

And in Massachusetts, they have 2 more weeks to figure out whether or  not they can afford this healthcare coverage next year, and the same  thing is going to be true in 49 other States in our country and in the  District of Columbia.

They are going to have to decide if they are going to keep their  coverage at all, and for those who do keep it, it is going to  skyrocket. And we don't know yet the final number of how many people  are trading their good insurance for junk plans that have cheaper  premiums but also have unaffordable deductibles. But we do know that  working families will suffer while billionaires rake in the dough with  great healthcare. You never have to worry about the billionaires and  their healthcare. They are, in fact, giving money to build new wings on  hospitals--they have so much money--to make sure they and their  families get the care they need at that hospital.

But it is going to be unaffordable for the families who are going to  be left behind right now. Those families are going to be heading for  emergency rooms. They are not going to be getting the kind of help that  they need with their family's healthcare.

So Trump told families, last night, they should ``give up pencils''  to deal with his affordability crisis, but Americans just can't give up  health insurance when these tax credits expire.

Who is going to suffer from Republicans' dogged opposition to  lowering healthcare prices?

I am just going to tell you a few brief stories in Massachusetts-- people like Jeffrey. Let me tell you who he is. He is a small business  owner who is seeing his premiums increase by $8,400 next year. His wife  died of cancer a decade ago, and by the time she passed, his family's  medical bills had topped $1 million. They would have been crippled by  debt without the affordable care insurance policy, which they were able  to receive through the ACA plan. But his bill is now going up $8,400.  Jeffrey doesn't have that money.

Second is people like a couple out in Western Massachusetts, whose  annual premium is doubling, from $15,000 a year to $30,000 a year. They  are going to owe $1,000 more a month for their health insurance, which  is going to be bigger than their mortgage. Do you hear what I am  saying, Republicans?

For this couple, health insurance is going to double and be bigger  than their mortgage. Is that really what you want to say to families  across our country, when we have a plan in place already that protects  them and gives them the healthcare which they need for their families?

I give you a third one, people like a small business owner in  Auburndale, whose premium is more than doubling to over $19,000 next  year, and she cannot afford what she calls a ``painful blow to my  budget.'' So she is just going to opt for a cheaper plan with less  healthcare coverage for herself. She shouldn't have to make that  choice. We already have a plan in place that protects her. She  shouldn't have to go down in the amount of protection which she is  receiving.

And then we go to Jeff. Jeff lives in Natick, and Jeff has stage IV  lung cancer. And Jeff right now pays $30,000 a year to get the drugs  which he needs. Do you know where his bill is going to, as of December  31, in just 3 more weeks? I am going to give you a second to think  about it.

His bill is going to $300,000 a year, and Jeff does not have $300,000  a year for his stage IV lung cancer drugs.

By the way, even as I am telling these stories, there are 22 million  of these stories that are all about to unfold a couple of days before  Christmas, when people have to figure out how big that new check is  that they have to write to get the coverage which they need.

I will just tell you one final story, which is Laurie. She is from  Truro. The premium for her and her husband is  going from $6,000 a year up to $26,000 a year. And Laurie and her  husband can't get coverage through an employer and are a few years from  qualifying for Medicare. So they are in kind of a black hole. They are  going to be left out in no man and woman's land, OK. That is where they  are going to be.

And they are going without insurance next year. That is the decision  they are making. And they are hoping--they are hoping with fingers  crossed--that neither one of them is going to have an emergency next  year.

Well, that is the Republican plan for Laurie and her husband: Just  cross your fingers. Pray that no healthcare catastrophe hits your  family for a year--because they cannot afford $26,000 a year, up from  $6,000 a year.

So the Republicans are asking Americans to trade their health  insurance for hope, but hope is not a healthcare strategy. The only  thing that gives hope to families is the actions that are taken to  ensure that they have access to the healthcare which they need, and  they are not going to take any action on the Republican side.

And so Laurie and her husband are just going to forgo health  insurance next year because their $26,000 a year is just not affordable  for them.

So I will just tell you, in conclusion, what Democrats are going to  offer tomorrow. It is going to be a simple, straightforward extension  of the healthcare tax credits these families depend on, so that  families like this don't have to rely on hope alone.

And my Republican colleagues, they are going to have a different  plan. Instead of lowering people's premiums, they are going to give  everyone $1,000 for their healthcare expenses. And that sounds nice in  theory, but you already heard the stories of the people who are, right  now, trying to figure out what they are going to do on December 23,  because they actually are not going to be allowed to use that money-- the $1,000--to pay for their health insurance premiums. They actually  are not going to be able to use it for that purpose.

So how is this Republican so-called healthcare plan going to help  someone who works in a hardware store, who owes $12,000 a year in  premiums, and has a $7,500 deductible? How does that $1,000 help anyone  whose premiums will be $19,000 next year? How does $1,000 cover  $19,000, which would have been covered? How does that $1,000 help a  senior couple paying more for their insurance than for their mortgage?

That is not a healthcare plan. That is a ``they don't care'' plan,  and that is what the Republicans are offering them--a Republican ``we  don't care'' plan for 22 million American families, 2 days before  Christmas. That is their plan.

Their ``Make America Sick'' agenda does nothing to help the 337,000  residents of Massachusetts who are going to be confronting skyrocketing  premiums next year--22 million people across the whole country. The  only people that the Republicans' plan will help are the millionaires  and billionaires who already have the money to afford their premiums,  and, yes, their donations to Donald Trump and MAGA Republicans to  protect those billionaire tax breaks.

That is their plan. The ticking healthcare timebomb that Republicans  are setting off, that Democrats have been warning about all year long,  is about to go off. In Massachusetts, you have got to write the check  by December 23, and that check has to be written all across our country  to make sure you are covered on January 1.

And this is as families are trying to get ready for their Christmas  celebrations. There won't be any celebration in those homes. They are  going to be trying to figure out how to balance their budgets. They are  going to be trying to figure out how to deal with all that money that  is now going to be spent for that healthcare that they did not have to  spend this year.

So this is going to be an absolute disaster for families, and it is  avoidable. And the Republicans can avoid it, but, instead, Trump and  the MAGA Republicans have traded away healthcare for tax breaks for  corporations. And it is the cruelty--the absolute cruelty--- of the  Trump administration, which knows no limits. And just in time for the  Christmas holidays, ``President Grinch'' is stealing medication from  dad, inhalers for grandma, insulin for children, toys right out from  underneath the tree.

So it is absolutely essential that we vote to extend the Affordable  Care Act premium tax credits. We must listen to the American people who  are begging us to help lower costs. Tomorrow, we can do that on the  Senate floor.

I implore the Republicans to vote to extend these tax benefits for 22  million American families. Please do it for them.

This is going to be terrifying for 22 million people. It is going to  be a terrifying Christmas for these families, and it is going to be a  terrifying reality next year, when they have lost their health  insurance or they cannot afford their health insurance unless they do  so at the expense of all the other things which their families need.

So we have to vote to avert this crisis. We need some Republicans to  join us--not many, but just enough with a conscience this Christmas to  make sure that they are protected.

I just close, once again, by urging my colleagues to vote yea on our  bill to protect those 22 million families.