Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700448/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, the military strikes on Iran by the United  States and Israel are a reckless escalation of an illegal war.  Americans do not want another endless war in pursuit of regime change.  Americans want to fix the affordability crisis here at home. Americans  want to fund healthcare, not endless warfare. Americans want to reclaim  the tax breaks for billionaires and millionaires to spend it on  healthcare and education and environmental protections in our country.  This war is not helping America; it  is hurting America. This war is built on lies about nuclear threats,  and those lies are now costing American servicemembers' lives.

Senators got a classified briefing from the administration yesterday,  and it confirmed what we already knew: This is an unnecessary and  illegal war--of choice--by Donald Trump. Iran posed no immediate  threat, and there is no plan to end this catastrophe.

President Trump said yesterday that he started this war because ``he  had a feeling''--Donald Trump ``had a feeling,'' he said, that Iran was  going to attack. There is no evidence--zero--to back this up. He has  presented no evidence to back up his feeling, and that is outrageous.  We should never ever start a war based on a feeling but only on facts.  Donald Trump is risking the world on his whims and on his feelings.

There was a time for diplomacy and for Trump to seek congressional  approval. Instead, this war will be a wrecking ball through the Middle  East and must be stopped.

Any war should have the support of Congress and the American people.  Trump's war has neither. This attack has not been approved by Congress  and holds dangers for all Americans.

If Trump does not stop this war now, Congress must. I look forward to  voting later today to support the bipartisan War Powers Resolution to  stop this illegal war.

Let me be clear: This is a crisis of Trump's own creation. Iran's  nuclear program was under control, thanks to the 2015 nuclear deal  which severely limited Iran's enrichment program and was working to  prevent Iran from producing a nuclear bomb. But Trump tore up that deal  in 2018 and then bombed Iran last June. Trump claimed then that the  attack obliterated Iran's nuclear program. If it did, why is he  attacking now? Was he lying then or is he lying now? He was lying at  some point in this process. Either it was obliterated or it wasn't.

A diplomatic solution remains the best way to permanently and  verifiably prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. The more Trump  bombs Iran, the further we get away from diplomatic deals. We are going  backwards.

Now, with the death of the Ayatollah--a terrible, repressive leader  who no one will miss--there is a power vacuum in the country and more  chaos. There is no guarantee that there will be a change of regime at  all or that whoever replaces the Ayatollah will be any better. In fact,  the replacement could be much worse than the Ayatollah.

Trump clearly sought regime change in Iran, but it is unlikely we  will see it without sending ground troops, which we should not do.  History teaches us that air wars alone do not force regime change. In  Venezuela, we removed the leader but did not change the regime.

The future of Iran should belong to the Iranian people. I stand with  them. Before the attacks, they showed extraordinary courage by  peacefully taking to the streets to demand change.

As much as we all want to help and support the Iranian people, this  is not a moment to impose solutions or shape outcomes from the outside,  but that is what Trump is trying to do.

I left yesterday's classified briefing understanding that Trump had  absolutely no plan for this war or its endgame. It is not clear at all  as to whether or not their goal is to engage in regime change or not.  It is not clear at all when they plan to end this war and what their  goals are that will end the war. And it is very clear that they have no  idea what the successor government will look like in Iran.

They are making this up as they go along in Trump's Oval Office. I  know that because they clearly had no evacuation plan for the scared  Americans who are now struggling to leave the region, many without  answers still as to how they get out of the region. My office is doing  everything we can to help Massachusetts residents who are abroad in the  Middle East trying to get home. We are hearing that the State  Department has no plan to help them. This is a dangerous and reckless  approach to war, and these families do not deserve to be in the  crosshairs.

I am pressuring the State Department to act quickly and decisively to  help bring these families home safely. It is day 5, and it is  unacceptable that they still do not have a clear plan in the Trump  administration as to how to evacuate all of these Americans who are  caught in this Middle Eastern conflict. There was no plan.

The best way to protect people in the region is to end this war and  end it right now. President Trump is completely out of control, and  Americans have already lost their lives because of it. We need to end  this illegal and unnecessary war now, and I will do everything in my  power to make that happen.

No war with Iran.