Small Business Innovation and Economic Security Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700331/small-business-innovation-and-economic-security-act


Mr. MARKEY. Thank you, Madam Chair.

Mr. President, I am so happy to come to the floor today to reopen the  Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology  Transfer Programs. These programs deliver more than $4 billion to  thousands of innovative small businesses across our country every  single year.

But for nearly 5 months, these programs have been shuttered. That  never should have happened.

In September, I came to the Senate floor seeking unanimous consent to  pass H.R. 5100, a bipartisan bill sponsored by the chairs and ranking  members of the Small Business Committee and House Science and  Technology Committee to temporarily extend these programs while  negotiations continued. Unfortunately, my motion was blocked and the  programs abruptly shut down.

As a result, the smallest SBIR and STTR companies were hurt.  Important research and development was stalled, and jobs were lost.

While I am glad to have come to an agreement, I am disappointed at  the suffering that was caused by the longest shutdown in the program's  history.

But we did ultimately come to an agreement. That is what we bring to  the floor here today.

More than 40 years ago, Congress created the SBIR Program to serve  four purposes: one, stimulate economic innovation; two, use America's  small businesses to meet Federal research and development needs; three,  to foster and encourage participation by minority and disadvantaged  individuals in innovation; and, four, to increase private sector  commercialization from Federal research and development.

Ten years later, Congress created the STTR Program to promote  collaborations between small businesses and research institutions.

And since the creation of the SBIR and STTR Programs, 33,000 American  small businesses have won more than $77 billion in awards.

In my own home State of Massachusetts, more than $9 billion in SBIR  and STTR funding has been won by more than 2,600 small businesses in  Massachusetts. It has been the engine of growth out on our tech belt.

The SBIR, STTR Programs have been overwhelmingly successful in  supporting innovative small businesses and their technologies. This is  just great news here. Data shows that 60 percent of all awardees in the  past 5 years are first-time winners. The SBIR Program has returned  anywhere from $22 to $33 for every $1 spent by the program that is  pushed into our economy. And through SBIR and STTR funding, small  businesses have created cutting-edge lifesaving medical breakthroughs.  In fact--this is an unbelievable number--one out of every eight FDA- approved drugs is linked to the SBIR and STTR Programs.

SBIR funding ultimately led to the creation of a drug to treat COVID- 19 infections, a medication that treats HIV infections, new treatments  for Alzheimer's disease, a continuous glucose monitoring device for  type 1 diabetics, and even the world's smallest heart pump--SBIR, STTR.

These programs have also led to the creation of technologies we take  for granted, such as GPS, wireless communications systems, and even  self-automated vacuum cleaners.

Simply put, the benefits of the SBIR and STTR Programs touch our  lives far more than most people realize. It has unleashed a cornucopia  of innovation that now is a part of every American family's lives, and  we must keep this program funded and going.

The American people deserve to have access to the most innovative  technologies. Our brave men and women who defend our freedom deserve to  be equipped with the best available technology to keep themselves and  all of us at home safe as Senator Ernst said. Our families and our  friends who are battling illnesses deserve access to the most effective  breakthrough treatments that innovation can offer.

For the Federal Government to continue investing in the most  innovative technologies, SBIR and STTR funding must continue to be  based purely on the strength of an idea, the best ideas our country  has. That is the spirit of Darwinian paranoia-inducing competition,  which is the heart of our system in our country.

So now, after 5 months of the programs' lapse, I am proud that the  chair and I have negotiated a bipartisan agreement that does not  automatically eliminate any small business from the program. Unlike  previous proposals that would have automatically kicked out more than  50 successful small businesses across 20 States and severely curtailed  hundreds of small businesses, this reauthorization would allow small  businesses to continue innovating and creating groundbreaking  technology for our country.

In an attempt to preserve quality proposals, this legislation  requires each Agency with an SBIR and STTR Program to place a ceiling  on the number of proposals that any small business can submit. The  ceiling must be placed in one of three categories: one, a proposal  limit per fiscal year; two, a proposal limit per solicitation; or,  three, a proposal limit per topic.

This language provides Agencies the flexibility to administer these  programs in a manner that best promotes innovation.

I recently met with Agency officials across the administration,  including at the Pentagon, to ensure this language would not hinder the  development of cutting-edge technologies to protect our country. I  received assurances from the Pentagon--the largest awarding SBIR and  STTR Agency--that the provision would be implemented on a per-topic  basis and no company would be unfairly targeted. That means any small  business can take their best shot at solving any problem the  government--the NIH, the Defense Department--poses, and Agencies can  secure the most innovative solutions.

I will continue to hold this administration accountable and fight to  maintain the merit-based nature of these programs.

This reauthorization also includes several new improvements for the  SBIR and STTR communities.

The bill retains the bipartisan 2022 foreign due diligence program,  which requires Agencies to create a process to communicate with small  businesses if they have been flagged for a foreign risk, and explicitly  ends the blacklisting of companies. This transparency measure allows  small businesses the opportunity to address any foreign risk they pose,  likely unknown to them.

Two, the bill expands direct to phase II authority to the Department  of Energy and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. This  will fast-  track clean and cutting-edge technology.

Three, the bill preserves STTR Program funding for universities and  research institutions.

Four, the bill directs Agencies to train contracting officers so that  SBIR-STTR technologies can more effectively transition to  commercialization.

Five, it allows any unused fiscal year 2026 funding to be carried  over so that no SBIR or STTR funding is lost as a result of the  program's lapse. Therefore, that funding can be used next year.

Finally, the bill reauthorizes the program until 2031, giving some  stability, some reliability, some certainty to small businesses, which  they need after a tumultuous 5 months.

Throughout this process, I knew any agreement had to have broad  support, and that is why it was so important to get input from all  stakeholders and receive assurances from the implementing Agencies. So  while this legislation does not include every improvement--I would like  to see or make programs permanent--it is a bipartisan product that  resulted from a negotiation between the chair and myself as the ranking  member.

The agreement now immediately reopens the programs so that we can  once again stake our position on the world stage, empowering our most  nimble companies in our country and our nimble allies around the world  in the innovation ecosystem to partner with our brilliant small  businesses to make the technological breakthroughs to put us at the  cutting-edge of world leadership.

I thank you, Mr. President, and I thank you, Madam Chair, for our  work together.