Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696444/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Kaine for his  leadership on this issue, highlighting it, meeting on it, bringing it  to the attention of the American public. The same thing is true for  Senator Wyden and Senator Klobuchar.

Thank you so much for your leadership.

And I rise to join them in highlighting the devastating impact  President Trump's economic policies are having on small businesses  across our country. Small business owners are struggling in President  Trump's economy.

Let me just say this: 97 percent of all the companies in America that  engage in trade are small businesses, and those small businesses  represent one-third of all trade that our country engages in.

They are not big companies. They can't buy a year or 2 years'  inventory in advance. They live week to week. They live month to month.  And that is pretty much where they have been since April. They have  been trying to survive. They have been trying just to make it through  this hectic, unpredictable, roller coaster of tariffs, which the  President has been imposing.

And these small businesses, they are unbelievably struggling in this  economy right now. Thanks to President Trump, just this year,  electricity costs are up 11 percent. Food prices are up. The cost of  coffee is up 19 percent this year. Bananas are up 7 percent. Beef is up  13 percent. The cost of healthcare for millions of small business  owners will increase by an average of 114 percent.

This is going to be a massive hit on small businesses and small  business workers if the Affordable Care Act tax premiums expire. It is  going to be 10 million small businesses and small business employees in  our country that are going to see a spike that is going to be dramatic  for their healthcare.

And 42,000 jobs we have lost in manufacturing this year--42,000 down,  not up--not as promised. And that is supposed to be at the center of  his tariff policy? We are losing manufacturing jobs at an accelerated  rate after Joe Biden increased manufacturing jobs.

And I would like to, again, really point out what a great job you  have been doing, Senator Kaine, on this in putting a great big  spotlight on all of this, because this is absolutely central to the  economic well-being of our country.

So back in May, I introduced and tried to pass my Small Business  Liberation Act, a bill that would have protected small businesses from  Trump's tariff chaos, just saying: Get those 97 percent of all the  businesses engaged in trade--the small businesses--get them out of this  war. They can't survive that war. Big businesses, maybe, but not little  businesses. They just can't do it. But the Senate Republicans blocked  that proposal.

Then I did it again. Republicans blocked my proposal just to spare  the small businesses, and, unfortunately, Republicans have not shown  the courage yet on Trump's tariffs, just capitulation, as they do on so  many other issues.

By opposing my bill and preventing those sensible resolutions from  moving forward in the House, Republicans are allowing Trump to tax any  good from any country for any reason--no rules. And the only reason is  Trump doesn't have the legal authority to do that. He doesn't have the  legal authority to do what he is doing right now.

Trump claims to have authority under a 1977 law signed by Jimmy  Carter, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. This law was  so uncontroversial in 1977 that it was passed on a voice vote.

Now, can you imagine? Jimmy Carter is President. There is a bill that  is going to allow Jimmy Carter to become a dictator, to impose tariffs  on any country in the world, to jack up the price anywhere they want on  any product, at any time; anything that ticks him off, including some  little commercial about Ronald Reagan, and all of a sudden, boom, we  are smashing you, Canada.

Does anyone here really think the Republicans and the Congress, in  1977, at the height of Jimmy Carterism, were giving him unlimited  authority to be able to impose tariffs?

You know that did not happen. He doesn't have the legal authority to  do this, and I can tell you because I was there on the floor of  Congress when it happened in 1977. I know there was no debate on this.

And so that is what we are talking about right now. The Congress did  not give Jimmy Carter King-like powers--I can guarantee you that--on a  voice vote. But Trump, he thinks he can exercise these emergency powers  and tax any import for any reason. Our latest emergency? It is a  television ad, a Canadian-produced and featured audio of former  President Ronald Reagan denouncing the tariffs. And, in retaliation,  President Trump decided everyday Americans and small businesses should  pay 10 percent more on imports from Canada.

It is very clear, Trump is just making all of this up. He is making  it up as he goes along.

And, for Massachusetts, it is very important. Every fifth grader-- when I was in the fifth grade and all fifth graders in Massachusetts-- in the geography book there is one chapter entitled: ``Our Friends the  Canadians.'' And why is that? Because they are our leading trading  partner. It is only like a 3- or 4-hour ride to get up to Canada. It is  who we are. We trade with them every single day. We do $10 billion of  trade with Canada. That is whom we do business with.

And this 10 percent additional tariff, you know who it cascades down  onto? The small businesses of Massachusetts. Ordinary citizens, they  are going to be further crushed. That is whom we partner with.

And he knows he doesn't have this trade authority. Small businesses  have had enough of Trump's illegal actions and have successfully  challenged the tariff authority twice already. He lost in the district  court. He lost in the circuit court. And next week, this case is going  to be heard in the Supreme Court. So small businesses have already won  twice, and now they are going for the final round in the Supreme Court,  hoping that they won't engage in creative legislative history  reinterpretation of that Republican unanimous vote in 1977 that allowed  Jimmy Carter to become a King on tariffs.

So the President says it is ``enemies of the country'' who are suing  him. If that is how you view Main Street in America--Kiwanians,  Rotarians, small business, chambers of commerce all across the  country--they are the ones bringing the suit and have already won twice  and are now heading for the showdown on the Supreme Court.

For small businesses, this isn't about politics; it is about  survival. And right now, Trump's tariffs are taxes for them. So far, it  is $30 billion coming from small businesses that Trump then transfers  into tax breaks for the wealthiest people in our country or for the  Argentine Government, but it is not staying on Main Street. They are  not getting the rewards for the work which they have done.

A small business in Massachusetts that designs and manufactures and  sells outdoor recreation equipment told me that they have paid an extra  $500,000 this year because of Trump's tariff taxes. Earlier this week,  they received a $40,000 bill from imports from Taiwan. It is just a  small business.

And, meanwhile, big businesses have CEOs meeting directly with the  President and receiving generous exemptions.

It is Robin Hood in reverse. Trump is taking from hard-working,  regular people, and he is transferring the wealth to the millionaires  and billionaires in our country. It is absolutely economic craziness  that the President is engaging in. He is punishing Main Street. He is  turning Main Street into ``Pain Street'' in every single State in our  country.

And that extra increase in the tariffs from Canada puts a special  burden on Massachusetts and our small businesses, our workers.

So it is very clear this tax is not being paid by other countries.  American small businesses pay the tax. Main Street is paying this tax.  And President Trump is taxing food and clothing and toys and even tea.  And as a small business owner reminded me, the last time there was a  tax on tea, there was a revolution in our country that began in Boston.

Small businesses have no lobbyists, no Mar-a-Lago, no golden gifts  for President Trump, no margin for error. There will be no invitations  to the new ballroom, but I am not going to back down. I am going to  continue to stand up for small businesses across the country, across  Massachusetts, from red States to blue States, who are bearing the  burden of these tariffs, and I hope that our Republican colleagues will  join us today by voting to pass this resolution.

And, again, I thank you, Senator Kaine, for your leadership, and the  same to you, Senator Wyden and to Senator Klobuchar. This is a very  important moment in the economic history of our country.