Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696132/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-with-respect-to-energy


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, we are down here telling the Trump  administration that their energy emergency, as they call it, is the  emergency for our country. Trump, Secretary Chris Wright--this whole  administration is using emergency authorities to make up a crisis that  is resulting in our electric bills going sky high all across our  country, and our clean energy jobs are going up in smoke. This energy  emergency is just fossil fuel gaslighting of the American people.

Since Trump took office, electricity prices have gone up more than 10  percent--twice as fast as general inflation, which also remains  historically high thanks to the Trump administration running our  economy into the ground. Their tariffs and their healthcare policies  are leading to higher prices--the price of food, the price of clothing,  the price of electricity--because of the Trump policies.

So why is this happening? For starters, Trump and the Republicans are  failing Econ 101. On the demand side, Big Tech is demanding big amounts  of electricity for its data centers. Data centers are projected to  demand up to 130,000 megawatts of electricity load by 2030--as much  electricity as is used by more than 100 million American homes. Do you  want to hear that again? This is all going to happen in the blink of an  eye. They are going to be consuming as much electricity as 100 million  homes in our country.

On the supply side, well, Trump is cutting off our cheapest and  quickest-to-deploy sources of energy that can meet this demand. Trump's  sham energy emergency pushes fossil fuels as the solution, but those  fossil fuels are polluting, they are pricey, and they are getting  pushed abroad to the highest bidder as exports. These fossil fuel  exports actually increase energy costs here for Americans. This is what  Senator Kaine has been talking about, trying to raise the profile of  these issues.

Last week, the Trump administration announced that they are killing  nearly $8 billion in grants for grid development and energy innovation,  targeting States that did not vote for Donald Trump in 2024. This week,  rumors have been swirling about the impending cancelation of tens of  billions of additional energy grant dollars that would be out there  trying to create more electricity, more energy here in the United  States. These lawless terminations hamstring American competitors,  drive up energy costs, and hurt domestic manufacturing.

But this is nothing new for this chaos administration, which has  already prevented hundreds of thousands of clean energy megawatts from  getting onto the grid. That is more than $42 billion in private sector  clean energy projects and 80,000 clean energy jobs already wiped out by  Donald Trump in the first 9 months of his administration.

Wright, Vought, Burgum, Trump--it is a fossil fuel cabal. It is not a  Cabinet; it is a cartel that is now running the United States of  America right out of the Oval Office, killing all of the new energy  sources that we need from wind and solar, from batteries, all-electric  vehicles--this incredible transformation that was taking place in our  country that they are now just trying to completely and totally kill.

Republicans' ``Big Ugly Bill,'' which eliminated programs working to  lower household costs and get clean energy built, is expected to cause  wholesale electricity prices to rise by 74 percent over the next 10  years--that is just in one bill--while keeping 350,000 megawatts of  wind and solar off the grid over the next 10 years.

Just think about that. There are massive amounts of wind and solar  all lined up, ready to get on to the wires that go up and down the  streets of our country--the grid--and what the Republicans are doing is  saying: We are killing it all.

Of course, if you don't have all of that extra electricity and AI  consumes all of the remaining electricity, guess who is going to pick  up the tab? It is going to be residential homeowners. It is going to be  small businesses. They will have to pay much higher rates for the  remaining electricity. There will be a bidding war for the remaining  electricity in our country. Each individual family cannot compete  against these big AI companies. So the ``Big Ugly Bill'' is going to  mean a lot of big ugly bills arriving in mailboxes for pretty much  every American over the next 10 years for their dramatically  skyrocketed electricity.

Their crazed push to produce more fossil fuels, whether by cutting  pollution regulation, selling off our public lands, keeping retiring  coal plants online, will cost Americans billions more. We will see  blackouts and we will see bigger bills because Trump and the  Republicans want bigger profits for their fossil fuel buddies--buddies  who contributed to Trump's campaign and have gotten paid out big time  in return, with more than $4 billion in brandnew handouts from the  government this year alone.

Let's call Trump's energy agenda what it really is: oil above all,  not all of the above.

Trump's energy agenda is killing American energy, especially the most  affordable and the most ready-to-go energy out there because--here are  the facts: Last year in the United States, 94 percent of all new  electrical generation capacity was wind and solar and batteries. Let me  say that again so everyone can hear it. Last year, 94 percent of all  new electricity came from wind and solar and batteries.

You wouldn't know that if you listened to the White House. You  wouldn't know that if you listened to the Department of Energy or the  EPA because they are just lying about it. They are just flat-out lying  about the role that wind and solar can play in our system because they  are over here just doing the bidding of the natural gas and the coal  industry. That is who they are.

They are looking at the future in a rearview mirror while young  people are looking to the future. Young people want to have this  renewable energy revolution unleashed for their century, for the 21st  century.

Solar panels today cost 1 percent of what they cost just 30 years  ago--1 percent. That is how much it has dropped. Crazy.

They say it is not working, in the White House. What is happening to  them? It is working too well. The oil, gas, and coal industry--they are  afraid of the future competition that comes from the technologies of  this younger generation in our country. They can smell it coming, that  their future is in the rearview mirror. That is what this whole thing  is all about.

There is a way of now producing solar energy. Even solar plus storage  is cheaper than running any coal-burning plant in the United States of  America. But you wouldn't know that from listening to Donald Trump,  when he says: I love coal. I love clean coal.

Well, young people love clean solar, clean wind. It is cheaper, and  it doesn't lead to asthma, it doesn't lead to lung cancer, and it  doesn't lead to genetic damage that can hurt future generations of  those families who are nearby those coal-burning plants.

Trump and Republicans have taken aim at renewables because they are  just plain scared. Even with all the subsidies that Big Oil and Big Gas  get from our government, renewables are winning on the market.

Trump is doing his fossil fuel donors' dirty work and keeping  American-made competition off of the grid. These are Trump energy taxes  on the American people.

So let's shine a spotlight on this fossil fuel gaslighting. Trump's  declaration is the energy emergency. Trump's declaration is the energy  emergency. He is stopping the future from arriving. He is stopping this  generation from deriving the benefits of a revolution that can be led  by the United States and then spread around the world--a solar  revolution, a wind revolution, a renewables revolution.

We should be the leaders, so let's end his sham declaration so we can  get lower bills, not raise barriers to affordable, American-made, clean  energy.

I urge my colleagues to enthusiastically support Senator Kaine and  Senator Heinrich's resolution. This is a critical debate. This goes to,  yes, the prices for electricity for all American families, all American  small businesses, but it also goes to the future of our planet.

Are we going to reduce the greenhouse gases we are sending up? Are we  going to recognize that we have a generational responsibility to be the  leader? Because the planet is running a  fever, and there are no emergency rooms for planets. We have to engage  in preventive care. That is what the wind and solar and battery storage  technologies all represent. They represent that future--a healthier  future, a safer future for all generations of all children in all  countries of the world. The United States should be the leader and not  the lagger.

I thank you, Senator Kaine, and I thank you, Senator Heinrich, for  bringing this resolution onto the floor.