Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I am here today to defend the standards  for our appliances that save energy, that cut climate emissions. They  reduce costs for American families and businesses. Yet Trump and his  Republican allies are attacking these commonsense appliance efficiency  standards.

This morning's vote overturned the Department of Energy's updated  energy labeling rule that would have made it easier for appliance  manufacturers to test, to certify, and to label their products in a way  that consumers can understand.

Energy labels are like food nutrition labels but for your electricity  bill. They empower consumers to choose cheaper, more efficient  appliances. They drive competition. They create certainty. They help  the American people make informed choices and avoid confusion.

The rule that Republicans overturned was not a ban. It was not a  mandate. The rule didn't even change underlying efficiency standards.  This vote comes after two additional votes earlier this month where  Republicans repealed the Department of Energy's updated efficiency  standards for gas-fired water heaters and walk-in coolers and freezers.

Let's be clear: These votes are not about appliance freedom. They are  about fossil fuel fascism. This is about corporate lobbyists putting  profits over people and destroying decades of bipartisan energy  efficiency progress. Having the information to make an informed  decision about your appliance that your family wants to buy is about  choice--your choice. Not Big Oil's choice, not Big Gas's choice--your  choice.

Here is the information. Make up your mind. Do you want one that is  more efficient? There it is right in the middle of Best Buy, right  there in the middle of the store. Pick that one.

Donald Trump's ridiculous culture war against energy-efficient  appliances is a war against saving families money. The more efficient  the appliance, the less money people pay in their electricity bill. The  fact is that Federal appliance efficiency standards are one of the most  successful climate and consumer savings programs in American history.  And these standards have been around for decades.

Back in 1987, I wrote the law. I am the author of the law that gave  the Department of Energy the authority to set binding energy standards  for appliances in America, which are supposed to be updated every 6  years. That is my law. It was signed into law as the National Appliance  Energy Conservation Act.

Now, I am going to be honest with you, Ronald Reagan vetoed it the  first time because the oil and gas industry wanted him to veto it. And  that law ultimately did pass, and it covered 13 major appliances-- kitchen refrigerators, dryers, air conditioners, and, yes, commercial  refrigerators. And since then, the number of appliances has more than  quadrupled.

Here is the way you should think about it. We need big electrical  generating facilities all across the country. Everyone knows right now  that AI is now going to be a huge drain on all of the electricity that  we have in our country. So how do we handle that problem? Well, one of  the ways of handling that problem is to say that refrigerators have to  be more efficient in the amount of electricity which they consume.  Light bulbs have to be more efficient. Air conditioning has to be more  efficient.

For example, in Texas, in the summer, 80 percent of peak demand for  electricity is air conditioning. So if you increase the efficiency by a  third in air conditioners, you are dramatically reducing the need to  have to build more electrical generating facilities in the country. Or  maybe there is more electricity left over for the AI industry if you  are working in a way that is trying to maximize American ingenuity.  That is who we are. We make things that are smarter.

Now, a lot of people--I would say the natural gas and oil industry at  the top of the list--they don't want there to be progress. Why is that?  Because the less efficient something is, the more energy, the more  electricity that has to be consumed. That is their profit. But what  does it do? It says to the consumer: You have to pay more for more  electricity. It says that you cannot have new options that make it  possible for you to ensure that your family has the most modern, the  most efficient air conditioning or lighting or refrigeration or stoves.

No, we are going to lock you into 10-years-ago technology. We are  going to lock you into 20-years-ago technology. That is a dream for the  oil and gas industry--a dream. But for the consumer, no, they are the  big loser because what  we are seeing over the years is after my law passed in 1987, the number  of appliances which have been covered has quadrupled--four times as  many are now covered.

Former President Biden updated more than two dozen standards that  have been delayed under the first Trump administration on behalf of the  oil and gas industry. These updates were estimated to save households  nearly $1 trillion annually over 30 years and save the average family  at least $100 per year in lower utility bills. They were also estimated  to cut approximately 2.5 billion metric tons of carbon emissions over  30 years. That is the equivalent of taking over 18 million gasoline- powered automobiles off the road each year for 30 years.

That is bad, by the way. That is bad for the oil and gas industry,  with fewer greenhouse gases going up, and less oil and gas being  consumed. All of that is part of a very bad equation for the oil and  gas industry, but it is catastrophic for families. It is catastrophic  for our planet that the industries are allowed to dictate policies here  on the floor of the U.S. Senate.

These appliance standards have also driven progress in States like  Massachusetts, where strong State-level appliance efficiency programs  are projected to cut energy costs by $13 million each year by 2044 for  families and small businesses, while fighting climate change. Let's not  forget that these rules have support from industry, but now they are  the target of political theater out here on the Senate floor.

It is not too late to act. We have one more appliance efficiency  Congressional Review Act vote ahead of us. This is why I am urging my  colleagues to vote no to overturn the Department of Energy's efficiency  standards for commercial refrigerators and freezers.

These standards update the minimum efficiency levels for new  refrigerators and freezers at restaurants, grocery stores, and  convenience stores that run 24/7, 365 days a year. This rule alone--the  one we are going to vote on--would save businesses up to $4.6 billion  over 30 years. These are savings that restaurants and grocery stores  could pass on to their customers. And if you have ever worked in a  kitchen, you know the importance of reliability and cost savings.

Eliminating this rule would only inject further uncertainty into the  market, punish forward-thinking manufacturers, and raise prices on the  very businesses--especially small businesses--we say that we want to  support. Energy efficiency isn't just an environmental solution; it is  an economic one. It cuts costs for renters, for seniors, for small  businesses, for schools, and municipal buildings.

Make no mistake about it. Eliminating these standards is climate  sabotage. Overturning even a few of them jeopardizes that future. It  locks in dirty fossil fuel use. It worsens pollution in frontline  communities that are already burdened by asthma, heat, and high energy  bills. We cannot slam the brakes on progress just for fossil fuel  profits.

A vote on this next resolution to overturn the updated standards for  refrigerators and freezers is a vote against lower bills, against  climate progress, and against consumer choice. We need to be investing  in the future, not resurrecting the past.

When my mother got disappointed in me when I was a boy--when I was 10  years old--my mother would just say: Eddy, you have to learn how to  work smarter, not harder. Otherwise, your father and I are going to  donate your brain to Harvard Medical School as a completely unused  human organ.

Ah, and what did she mean? She meant that you just had to be smarter  and think the problem through.

That is what energy efficiency is. It is working smarter, not harder.  It is making the refrigerator, it is making the air conditioner, and it  is making everything that we use more efficient so we need less  electricity, because that is all our nuclear powerplants, our coal- burning plants, and wind and solar are. They are just ways of providing  electricity for the air-conditioning, for the lighting, and for the  heating. That is all it is. If we make it 25 percent more efficient,  then, all of a sudden, we need 25 percent less electricity which is  being generated and 25 percent less pollution that goes up into the air  and into the lungs of the children in our Nation. That is what we are  debating here today.

Once again, the Republicans are going to side with the oil and gas  industry, and they are going to say: America can't figure out how to  improve the efficiency of appliances in our Nation.

That is what they are saying, but they are also saying the same thing  about our automobiles: No, we can't figure out how to make them more  efficient.

That is what they are saying about wind and solar: No, we can't  figure out how to deploy it in our country as an alternative to oil and  gas.

By the way, the story always comes back to that one issue--oil and  gas and their money inside of this system--but the price is being paid  by consumers who have to pay higher bills, and it is going to be a  price that is paid by our planet, as it gets more and more dangerously  hotter.

My mother would always say that the planet is running a fever, and  there are no emergency rooms for planets. That is where we are. It is  the young generation who is leading us. It is the young generation who  is saying: You must do something about climate change.

It is the young generation who is saying: We must figure out a way of  reducing this pollution that we are sending up into the atmosphere.

Once again, the Republicans are bringing up another bill on the floor  of the U.S. Senate that is going to dramatically increase pollution,  and that is going into the lungs of every child, of every pregnant  mother in our country, and it is absolutely irresponsible and  absolutely unnecessary, except for the role that the oil and gas  industry plays in the politics of the Republican Party.