Trump Administration First 100 Days


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690442/trump-administration-first-100-days


Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, 100 days ago, Donald Trump proclaimed  ``the golden age of America begins now.'' But in 100 days, since  Inauguration Day, ``King'' Donald has shown us that he sits on a throne  of fool's gold--one built on empty votes, unfulfilled promises, and lie  after lie after lie.

In just over 3 months, ``King'' Donald's reign has rained down chaos  and corruption and cuts and crisis on the American people. And he is  counting on you not to pay attention. He is hoping you don't notice  that, every day, costs are rising, retirement savings are sinking, and  families are living paycheck to paycheck and they are bearing the  burden of the Trump world.

He is relying on all of us to roll over, accept his absolute rule,  and let him and his caviar Cabinet enjoy the circus while they pass a  massive tax break for their billionaire buddies out of all of the  programs that would serve every family in our country.

So to help us all keep track here on the 100th day of the Trump  Presidency, here are the 100 damages from Trump's 100 days:

In his first 100 days, Donald Trump, No. 1, propped up Big Tech  billionaires at his inauguration, right here in this building.

No. 2, withdrew the United States from the World Health Organization.

No. 3, pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement to  save our planet.

No. 4, created DOGE.

No. 5, called to end birthright citizenship through an Executive  order, which is unlawful because it cannot override the Constitution of  the United States.

No. 6, canceled nearly $400 million in funding to support  communities' efforts to eliminate or reduce flood damage.

No. 7, eliminated the Office of Climate Change and Health Equity,  which addresses greenhouse gas emissions from the health sector and  facilitates interagency coordination to address climate change impacts  on the public health of all 330 million Americans.

No. 8, he attacked clean car regulations that save drivers money at  the pump.

No. 9, unleashed ICE at schools and hospitals and churches to  threaten children and families.

No. 10, disbanded the Office of Gun Violence Prevention, which  championed the first Federal gun safety legislation in more than 30  years.

No. 11, repealed the Biden administration's AI protections for  minority communities in our country.

No. 12, he helped States refuse abortion care in life-threatening  emergencies.

No. 13, threatened to take over the Panama Canal.

No. 14, he fired 18 inspectors general who work to eliminate  government waste and fraud and abuse.

No. 15, threatened to hold California wildlife aid hostage.

No. 16, threatened to use military action against Greenland to take  it by force and violate its sovereignty.

No. 17, illegally fired two National Labor Relations Board officials.

No. 18, banned transgender Americans from serving in the U.S.  military.

No. 19, restricted access to gender-affirming care.

No. 20, he froze the Clean School Bus Rebate funding, standing in the  way of keeping our air clean for kids on buses in our country.

No. 21, spread misinformation about vaccines and risked the health of  millions of Americans.

No. 22, he blamed a plane crash on DEI--irresponsible.

No. 23, eliminated the public records office at the Centers for  Disease Control.

No. 24, scrubbed health data related to HIV from the CDC website.

No. 25, allowed DOGE access to sensitive Treasury Department  information about all Americans.

No. 26, fired the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection  Bureau because he favors the interests of his billionaire buddies over  those of American consumers.

No. 27, gutted Federal protections for worker safety.

No. 28, scrubbed the mention of climate change from any Federal  Agency in our country.

No. 29, froze $10 billion in disaster funding as part of a bogus  investigation into nonprofit support for undocumented immigrants.

No. 30, cut cancer research funding.

No. 31, cut diabetes research funding.

No. 32, cut HIV-AIDS research funding.

No. 33, cut heart disease research funding.

No. 34, cut mental health research funding.

No. 35, cut family caregiving research funding.

No. 36, cut funding to recruit the next generation of health  researchers, putting years of innovation at risk.

No. 37, withdrew grant opportunities with the Office on Violence  Against Women.

No. 38, threatened providers, hospitals, and community health centers  because of the type of care which they provide.

No. 39, froze funding for community health centers in our country.

No. 40, ordered the suspension of EV charging funding.

No. 41, tried to rename the Gulf of Mexico.

No. 42, illegally rescinded $80 million in congressionally  appropriated FEMA funding for New York City bank accounts.

No. 43, fired--and then rehired--over 300 staffers at the National  Nuclear Security Administration, jeopardizing  the security of the U.S. nuclear stockpile.

No. 44, threatened to take over Canada.

No. 45, weakened NATO by cozying up to Russia and alienating our  allies.

No. 46, cut Alzheimer's research, delaying breakthroughs that could  find a cure for this tragic and deadly disease.

No. 47, terminated the American Climate Corps.

No. 48, cut hundreds of employees from the FAA.

No. 49, fired more than 200 probationary FEMA workers.

And No. 50, fired more--this is unbelievable--than 2,400 National  Park Service workers nationwide, including at Minute Man National Park,  Springfield Armory, and Cape Cod National Seashore.

No. 51, called to privatize the U.S. Postal Service, jeopardizing  jobs and the fast, safe, and efficient delivery of our mail.

No. 52, fired workers responsible for answering the Veterans'  Administration Crisis Line.

No. 53, worked with Republicans in Congress to gut Medicaid.

No. 54, terminated hundreds of VA contracts, including those in  cancer research and suicide prevention.

No. 55, fired more than 1,000 NOAA employees nationwide.

No. 56, gutted USAID and halted global humanitarian assistance.

No. 57, fired 2,400 VA employees, with plans to cut 80,000 additional  VA employees.

No. 58, froze funding and canceled classes at the National Fire  Academy.

No. 59, canceled the Local Food for Schools and Local Purchase  Assistance Programs at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, ending  subsidies that go directly to farmers for schools and costing  Massachusetts alone and our farmers $18 million.

No. 60, ordered the closure of the environmental justice offices at  the Environmental Protection Agency and not just at headquarters but at  all the regional EPA offices as well.

No. 61, froze and announced the termination of the climate bank, the  green bank funding.

No. 62, froze $20 million in community change grant funding to  improve air quality in Springfield, MA, the former asthma capital of  the United States; and cut another $1 million from Massachusetts  Department of Public Health to combat asthma rates in Western  Massachusetts.

No. 63, eliminated the Institute of Museum and Library Services.

No. 64, wiped the Surgeon General's advisory calling gun violence a  public health crisis--wiped.

No. 65, called for the firing of judges who have disagreed with him,  which clearly would violate the U.S. Constitution.

No. 66, illegally fired the Democratic Commissioners at the Federal  Trade Commission.

No. 67, cut off legal representation for unaccompanied children in  immigration proceedings.

No. 68, cut funding to fight the opioid epidemic in our country. It  is still an epidemic.

No. 69, threatened to block a media merger if CBS didn't change its  reporting.

No. 70, gave DOGE access to sensitive Small Business Administration  data.

No. 71, Signalgate.

No. 72, abducted Rumeysa Ozturk off the streets of Somerville, MA--a  graduate student whom I just visited in prison in Louisiana. The Trump  administration has not charged her with a crime, has presented no  evidence. The Trump administration must release Rumeysa now.

No. 73, cut funding to help kids get vaccinated.

No. 74, terminated collective bargaining for tens of thousands of  Federal workers.

No. 75, called to end funding for the broadcasters of the public  broadcasting system of our country.

No. 76, cut off $106 million in education funds for Massachusetts.

No. 77, threatened a military attack against Iran, which could have  set off a full-blown regional war in the Middle East.

No. 78, fired nearly everyone who works on the low-income heating  assistance program and their Federal staff--fired nearly everyone.

No. 79, fired 870 workers at the National Institutes for Occupational  Safety and Health, approximately two-thirds of their workforce. That is  occupational safety and health.

No. 80, cut funding for the Head Start program. There are 800,000  young people in Head Start. Slashed that funding.

No. 81, canceled more than 1,000 National Endowment for the  Humanities grants totaling more than $363 million.

No. 82, delayed broadband grant funding.

No. 83, allowed a measles epidemic to spread uncontrolled across our  country--a measles epidemic in 2025.

No. 84, eliminated more than $880 million in Federal climate  resilience aid that helps communities build disaster-resilient  infrastructure.

No. 85, opened America's public lands to new coal mining.

No. 86, targeted State and local laws aimed at tackling the climate  crisis.

No. 87, moved to end lifesaving parole programs for Afghans and  Ukrainians and Cubans and Haitians and Nicaraguans and Venezuelans.

No. 88, moved to sunset critical environmental regulations.

No. 89, blocked $2.2 billion in Federal grant funding to Harvard.

No. 90, froze public safety grants for public broadcasters in our  country.

No. 91, halted Federal leasing and permitting for wind projects in  our country as they open our public lands for coal mining.

No. 92, gutted permitting processes in order to fast-track dirty  energy projects to reward his Big Oil and Gas and Coal cronies.

No. 93, canceled $90 million in disaster prevention funding to  Massachusetts alone.

No. 94, put all staff on the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness  on administrative leave, essentially shutting down the Agency that  works on homelessness in our Nation.

No. 95, suspended food safety inspections after firing the Food and  Drug Administration workers--food safety inspections, suspended in our  country in 2025.

No. 96, terminated $400 million in grants for AmeriCorps.

No. 97, suspended refugee resettlement in our country for the first  time.

No. 98, arrested Judge Hannah Dugan, alleged that she helped an  undocumented man avoid immigration enforcement.

No. 99, increased funding for the Sentinel ICBM program, which, as it  increases the risk of accidental launch, makes nuclear war more likely  on our planet.

And No. 100, deported children who are United States citizens.

100 days, 100 damages. This is where our country is right now, and  this is what we must stand up and fight to prevent from becoming any  worse.