Recognizing the 22nd Annual Disability Pride Parade


Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 22nd  Annual Disability Pride Parade taking place in Chicago's Loop on  Saturday, July 26. The parade takes place 35 years to the day that the  Americans with Disability Act (ADA) was signed into law, and the theme  of the parade is 35 years of ADA: Still Rising, Still Thriving.

The mission of the Disability Pride Parade is to change the way  people think about and define ``disability,'' to break down and end the  internalized shame among people with disabilities, and to promote the  belief in society that disability is a natural and beautiful part of  human diversity in which people living with disabilities can take  pride.

In 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act was signed into law.  This bipartisan effort made a commitment that our history of  segregating and isolating persons with disabilities would end. In the  law's own words, the purpose of the ADA is to ``provide a clear and  comprehensive national mandate for the elimination of discrimination  against individuals with disabilities.''

By setting enforceable standards, providing assistance for  compliance, and asserting the federal government's central role in  ending discrimination, this landmark civil rights law has provided hope  and opportunity for all Americans--those today living with a disability  and those of us who could become disabled tomorrow. Because of the ADA,  individuals with disabilities have the legal right to fully participate  in our society--the right to transportation, health services, shopping,  entertainment, education, employment, public accommodations, and  voting.

Those who fought so hard to win its passage--including my friend and  mentor Marca Bristo, the founder and head of Access Living--deserve to  celebrate its enactment and deserve our thanks. But as we celebrate  today, we have to get to work tomorrow. We need to build on the ADA's  promise--whether it is passing my bill, the Eleanor Smith Inclusive  Home Design Act, to make sure that all new residential housing built  with federal dollars is accessible or increasing the employment of  adults with disabilities.

This year, we have seen a number of legislative attempts to take away  rights from disabled individuals. The Big Ugly Bill, which Republicans  passed through Congress, is going to strip health care away from nearly  17 million individuals, including many with disabilities. I stood on  the frontlines with disability advocates who have truly been the tip of  the spear in the fight to protect all Americans' health care. While we  did not win this battle, the fight is not over. The power of the people  is always greater than that of the people in power.

As long as discrimination still exists and as long as there are those  who seek to undermine existing law, the purpose of the ADA will not  have been completely met. It is our job to make sure that happens.