Recognizing Officer Mykul Thomas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693669/recognizing-officer-mykul-thomas


Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an extraordinary  individual from our community, Department of the Air Force Police  Officer Mykul Thomas, who has been a beacon of inspiration at the gates  of Buckley Space Force Base. As he prepares for a new assignment at  Cape Canaveral Space Force Station, I want to honor the profound,  positive impact he has had on countless individuals entering the  installation.

For so many, Officer Thomas was more than the first line of security;  he was the first source of motivation for the day. He understood that  his post at the gate was a unique opportunity to make a difference in  people's lives. This understanding comes from a deep personal  philosophy, one taught to him by his mother, who gave him his unique  name, Mykul. He lives by the creed that the two most important days in  life are the day you are born and the day you find out your ``why''.  Officer Thomas found his ``why'' in uplifting others, and he lived it  every day at the gate.

His commitment was put to the ultimate test one fateful day, when a  young man drove up to his gate, not to enter the base, but to say a  final goodbye. Officer Thomas immediately engaged with the young man,  and he shared a simple, powerful message: that life is worth living and  that he was important. That heartfelt intervention saved a life. This  remarkable story is a testament to Officer Thomas's character. A belief  that we all have a gift to be something and to do something, and he has  certainly used his. His actions demonstrate that even in moments when  motivation is hard to find, we are not alone.

A proud Marine Corps veteran of 13 years, who served as a drill  instructor at Parris Island, Officer Thomas has seamlessly translated  his leadership and mentorship skills into his role as a Department of  the Air Force Police Officer. As Officer Thomas departs for Cape  Canaveral, we thank him for his incredible service and for the spirit  of hope and motivation he brought to his post each day. He has left an  indelible mark on the Buckley Space Force Base community.

I ask my colleagues to join me in saluting Officer Mykul ``Moto''  Thomas. He showed us the powerful impact one person can have, and we  wish him the very best as he continues to live his ``why''.