Recognizing Cherry Creek School District's 75th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697488/recognizing-cherry-creek-school-districts-75th-anniversary


Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, 75 years ago, a group of visionary educators,  parents, and community members came together with a common dream: to  create a district where every child would have the opportunity to  learn, grow, and succeed. I rise today to congratulate the Cherry Creek  School District on celebrating this important milestone.

Cherry Creek opened in 1950 with eight schools and grew to double  their enrollment by the 1970's. Today, the district serves 53,000  students over 67 K-12 schools across the Denver Metro Area. The  district's students have excelled in state and national competitions in  academics, athletics, and the arts.

Cherry Creek has prioritized meeting the needs of their students. In  2023, Traverse Academy became the first district-operated mental health  facility and school of its kind across the Nation.

Today, the district's mission is to ``inspire every student to think,  to learn, to achieve, and to care.'' This mission has guided Cherry  Creek in their work to support every child across all backgrounds and  academic pathways.

As one of the districts in Colorado's most diverse congressional  district, Cherry Creek serves students from all over the world.  Currently, more than 150 languages are spoken throughout the school  district.

Cherry Creek has continued its leadership and dedication to meeting  the needs of today by opening the dynamic Cherry Creek Innovation  Campus in 2019. The school offers multiple non-traditional academic  pathways for students to excel, including Aerospace Manufacturing,  Hospitality, and Infrastructure Engineering. In 2024, it was recognized  as a top 100 school for educational innovation by HundredED. Since  their opening in 2019, 776 students at the Cherry Creek Innovation  Campus have earned their industry certificates.

I am honored to represent the Cherry Creek School District and I know  I speak for many in Colorado when I congratulate all members of the  Cherry Creek School District community on their dedication to our  students and contributions to our state. With work grounded in  innovation, excellence, and a commitment to their students, I know they  will continue to focus on educating and lifting up their students for  the next 75 years and beyond.