Recognizing Jasmine Baker


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689665/recognizing-jasmine-baker


Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Jasmine Baker,  winner of a 2024 James Madison Fellowship from the James Madison  Memorial Fellowship Foundation. This fellowship is awarded to educators  who demonstrate an outstanding commitment to civic responsibility and  education in the areas of American history, American government, or  civics.

Mrs. Baker began her service in the U.S. Air Force, conducting  signals analysis in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Upon leaving the military, Mrs. Baker continued to serve her  community through education. She went to school using the GI Bill, and  became a social studies teacher with an emphasis on supporting  education in urban communities. As an eighth-grade teacher at Mrachek  Middle School in Aurora, Colorado, she incorporates intensive  discussion and diverse cultural narratives to promote critical  thinking.

A participant in the national We the People research project and a  ``Push-In'' facilitator, Mrs. Baker works to make education more  accessible. As a facilitator, she focuses on addressing the challenges  Black youth face in school and on creating more equitable spaces for  young women through professional development programs and student  groups.

As Aurora Public Schools' co-facilitator for social studies programs,  she coordinates with all district middle school teachers to strengthen  education our Aurora youth receive and to help mentor new educators.  And as a coach of the Step Team, she drives her athletes to build  leadership skills, confidence, community, and to pass down cultural and  historical knowledge.

As Colorado's 2024 James Madison Fellow, Mrs. Baker will continue her  own education and complete a master's degree at the University of  Colorado Denver. She hopes to use this opportunity to facilitate even  greater educational advancement for her students and to  build a stronger, more civically adept community.

I thank Mrs. Baker for her service to our community and wish her the  best in her studies as she completes the James Madison Fellowship.