Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator- Freezers''


Mr. GOLDMAN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding  the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my resolution, H.J. Res. 75,  which repeals the Biden administration's burdensome energy conservation  standards for commercial refrigerators and freezers.

In the final months, the previous administration prioritized their  energy policies over Americans' prosperity and freedom. This  unnecessary and costly mandate would burden small businesses, increase  red tape, and jeopardize food safety.

The Department of Energy estimates implementing this rule would cost  Americans $8 billion. This massive financial burden will fall on small  businesses that rely on commercial refrigeration for their daily  operations. Cafes, restaurants, and grocery stores would be forced to  purchase more expensive, less effective equipment. As we all know,  these costs would be passed on to consumers, increasing food and  beverage prices nationwide.

Beyond the financial strain, the rule would force manufacturers into  costly,  potentially unfeasible redesigns of refrigeration equipment. The Biden  administration failed to account for real-world conditions, including  how frequently refrigerators are used during peak business hours.  Ignoring these realities poses serious food safety risks.

The evidence is clear. If not repealed, these extreme regulations  will raise costs, increase red tape, and endanger food safety.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. In  November, Americans voted for change, common sense, and freedom from  government overreach and regulations. Let's honor that mandate by  rolling back the Biden administration's extreme regulations and  supporting small businesses across our Nation.