Disaster Related Extension of Deadlines Act


Mr. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my legislation,  H.R. 1491, the Disaster Related Extension of Deadlines Act.

I am blessed to live in eastern North Carolina, which is all too  familiar with the devastation caused by natural disasters. For coastal  Carolina, it is not a question of if but rather a question of when a  hurricane will hit my district. We stick out far in the ocean and have  a big bull's-eye target on us.

We are still recovering from Hurricane Florence, which occurred in  2018. Despite being 7 years ago, there are still homes and businesses  shuttered from the damage of that powerful hurricane.

It has now been 6 months since the Nation observed the decimation  that Hurricane Helene wreaked upon western North Carolina. It has been  one of the most devastating disasters in our Nation's history.

This historic storm led to catastrophic loss of life and property to  our neighbors in the west. In just 18 hours, over 30 inches of rain  came down in some areas, which surged downhill into rivers and valleys,  causing close to $80 billion in damage and resulting in over 100  deaths. Entire towns and communities were completely destroyed and  washed away.

It will take years, if not a decade, for western North Carolina to  fully recover from the damage inflicted by Hurricane Helene. Since that  time, while we have come a long way, western North Carolina is still  reeling from the effects of Hurricane Helene and will continue to feel  the effects of that storm for years to come.

It is important that Congress provide as much relief as soon as  possible to these victims.

H.R. 1491, the Disaster Related Extension of Deadlines Act, has two  important provisions that would not only help those impacted by  Hurricane Helene but all disaster victims nationwide.

The first provision amends the lookback period to ensure victims of  disasters have additional time to claim funds or credits that they  previously missed out upon.

Additionally, H.R. 1491 contains another provision that would prevent  disaster victims from receiving collection notices indicating that they  owe the IRS funds despite a postponement of tax filing.

When someone suffers from a natural disaster, the last thing on their  minds is their tax liability. They are trying to put a roof over their  head and find food for their family and clothing for their children.

I cannot begin to describe the sheer physical and emotional damage  that these people suffer.

In the case of Hurricane Helene, we saw thousands of homes and  businesses literally washed out and wiped out overnight. Victims are  still and will continue to process the trauma from that occurrence.

North Carolinians are resilient. It has been heartening to see the  entire North Carolina delegation come together and provide support for  those in the western part of the State.

Furthermore, the contributions of first responders, nonprofits, and  concerned private citizens from all across the State have greatly  improved response efforts. It may take years, but our neighbors in the  west know they have the full backing of everyone in North Carolina as  they continue to recover.

This is not a Republican issue nor a Democratic issue. It is an  American issue. All of us are at risk of suffering from natural  disasters. In these difficult times, we must come together as Americans  to pass commonsense legislation like H.R. 1491 to ensure that victims  of natural disasters are not burdened by our tax code.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Congressman   Jimmy Panetta, for  his partnership on this critical issue, and I thank Chairman Smith for  his support and efforts to help provide relief to disaster victims.

I encourage all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill so we  can offer relief to all disaster victims, especially those in western  North Carolina.