Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Record of Decision for the Barred Owl


Mr. LUJAN. Mr. President, I rise today to ask my colleagues to pass  my Keep SNAP and WIC Funded Act of 2025, which has the backing of the  entire Democratic caucus--the Democratic Members of this Senate.

Now, we all know access to food is a human right. It is that simple.  And we are all fortunate enough to live in the United States of  America, a nation that is rich; it is abundant. A nation that is rich  in agricultural tradition can be abundant in harvest.

Now, in a nation blessed with such abundance, allowing our fellow  Americans to go hungry is, sadly, right now, a policy decision--I would  argue a political decision, not a financial necessity.

Now, the Trump administration has yet again made the decision--made  the choice--to allow our fellow Americans to go hungry. Now, let's be  clear: The only way to ensure the SNAP benefits are issued by November  1 is for the Trump administration to release the billions of dollars it  has sitting in an account in USDA that Congress appropriated, Democrats  and Republicans working together to appropriate, to use for this  purpose.

As a matter of fact, never in the history of the United States has  SNAP been allowed to lapse like this. As a matter a fact, during  President Trump's first term, Secretary Purdue, President Trump, they  tapped the same fund to allow SNAP benefits to continue to roll.

Now, President Trump says that the use of SNAP contingency funds is  illegal. Well, here is the document that was taken down from the USDA  website that was up just days ago. He decided to take this down and now  even the Speaker of the House is lying to the American people saying  that it is not allowed.

President Trump found $40 billion in U.S. taxpayer dollars to send to  his political allies in Argentina just last week. But when it comes to  feeding our own--our own people here in the United States of America-- he refuses to act.

Back home in New Mexico, one in five people rely on SNAP. They aren't  strangers. They are neighbors, coworkers, friends, children, people I  go to church with. They are the folks we say hello to at the grocery  store or at a Little League game.

President Trump's refusal to release SNAP funding doesn't just impact  New Mexico. States like Louisiana, where Speaker Johnson is from, are  facing the same crisis. Louisiana is third on the list of constituents  that will be negatively impacted.

Now, I have been fortunate enough to visit several food banks across  New Mexico and meet with community members who are working around the  clock to make sure neighbors have something to eat.

To every one of our community members who have stepped up, I want to  say thank you--not just across New Mexico but across America. I am  proud to represent a community that takes care of each other when times  are tough.

It shouldn't have to be this way.

Since the creation of SNAP, there has never been a lapse--there has  never been a lapse in SNAP funding during a government shutdown. The  Trump administration has the authority and the funds to keep SNAP  running during this shutdown. Don't take my word for it. Look at the  USDA's own guidance that they removed from their website that justifies  this.

Any failure to do so right now falls squarely on the Trump  administration and Republicans. We could vote on this today, on this  bill or one that Senator Hawley has authored as well that has many  Republican colleagues that are cosponsors, to prevent a hunger crisis.

This pain does not need to happen. President Trump is choosing to  inflict pain on American families by holding meals hostage. That is why  I am leading this legislation to ensure that no child, parent, or  veteran misses a meal because of the Republican shutdown.

It also says that if States or Tribal governments are in a position  right now to fund SNAP programs, that they do get reimbursed, unlike  what President Trump has been threatening them--that they will not. We  cannot stand by and let our neighbors go hungry.

So I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and I appreciate  everyone that has reached out to my office to have a conversation about  this piece of legislation. I hope we can work together and find a path  forward.

I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come together to  pass this bill now and fund SNAP and fund WIC before this hunger crisis  hits our communities.

3071, introduced earlier today; that the  bill be considered read three times and passed; and that the motion to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. LUJAN.  I see some of his staff in  the room as well, people that I have worked with. They know when I work  with them and when others don't. But I understand the words that were  being used today to spin an argument as to why there should be  justification for 40 million people to go hungry.

You know, I get in trouble sometimes because I use language from the  little farm that I still call home, but I have learned the rules of  decorum on the Senate floor, so I won't use them today. But some of the  lessons my father taught me early in my life, even after I was elected  to the U.S. House of Representatives, when he would leave a shovel by  the front door when I would go home on the weekends, and he would leave  my rubber boots there to make sure I put them on because we were going  to go clean the barn.

We raised cattle. We raised sheep. We raised all kinds of animals.  After those animals eat, they make something. Some of us use it to  fertilize our land; some people call it manure. I won't refer to it as  the language that I usually call it when I am not on the Senate floor.

I also thought it was important to tell people the truth and be  honest with the American people. What the good leader left out when he  was talking about the number of votes that Republicans voted on under a  Democratic President, under a Democratic majority in the Senate and in  the House, was that there was not a shutdown. We negotiated.

People came to me--as a matter of fact, a lot of my Democratic  constituents told me: Democrats gave way too much to those Republicans  when you were in the majority.

Well, when you have to negotiate, when you hold power, when you are  in the majority, you meet people. You pull them in. You don't tell  folks: You know where my office is.

You all have heard me talk about the late Governor Bruce King, cattle  farmer out of New Mexico. He used to tell us: When people can't figure  out what is going on, you lock them up in a barn, and you don't let  them out until they figure out how to get along.

Well, we don't have a barn. Maybe they have an office around here to  send some people. There is a White House. It is easy to get in--there  is a big hole in it. Invite some people over there to sit down.

President Trump said not long ago that if there is a shutdown, it is  up to the President to bring people together to prevent it, and if  there is a shutdown, it does not bode well for the President of the  United States of America. He is absolutely right.

It is not just a Democratic bill to fund SNAP that is on the floor  today; there is a pending bill that has been introduced into the U.S.  Senate that has 11 Republicans that are cosigners, including the  Republican who authored it, a colleague out of Missouri. He doesn't  want his folks to go hungry, and he said: Enough of this nonsense.  Let's have a bill on the floor.

Give him a UC. If you don't want to give the Democratic bill a  unanimous consent, give the Republican-authored bill a unanimous  consent. I am a cosponsor of that one, too, because I am willing to  work with folks. You all know that. You all know that.

Look, days before Americans start receiving notices that healthcare  premiums are about to skyrocket, as the Trump administration moves to  cut off SNAP benefits, this dysfunction is what the American people  have come to expect from Republican majorities in the Congress and the  White House.

I appreciate my colleague saying the blame is on our side of the  aisle, but we are in the majority--oh, not yet. Maybe soon. We are in  the minority.

With power comes responsibility. Republicans are in the majority in  the Senate--fact. Republicans are in the majority in the House of  Representatives--fact. Donald Trump, the President of the United  States, is a Republican--fact. It cannot be refuted. They are in  charge. The American people know that.

So just as a reminder, SNAP has never not been funded when there have  been shutdowns in the past, including in President Donald Trump's first  term. And even under President Trump's second term, he tapped a billion  of the $6 billion to pay for staff to administer SNAP. They did it.

Now they want to take down policy from a website that says that they  can justify doing this, showing the law. That is the nonsense. That is  the garbage the American people are tired of--the political this, the  political jostling, all of that.

We have got people that are going to go hungry. This has never  happened before, you all. There is a better way to do that.

So, Mr. President, in response to the request from the majority  leader--the Republican leader--on behalf of constituents from South  Dakota, constituents from New Mexico that don't--do not, so that I am  clear; sometimes people confuse my New Mexico accent--that do not want  to see their health premiums double and triple and bankrupt them--and  some people that can't afford to get insurance won't be as lucky as me,  where I survived a stroke 3 years ago.

By the way, this is what a stroke survivor looks like, if you get  access to a doctor. You don't have to worry about going bankrupt if you  can't pay the bills. This is what you can look like. You can get  better. And in America, we should strive for that.

So, again, on behalf of constituents from South Dakota that don't--do  not--want to see health premiums double and triple, on behalf of my New  Mexico constituents that do not want to see health premiums double or  triple, I will not modify my request.