Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. SOTO. Mr. Chair, I want to commend the managers of the House  Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2026 Appropriations bill for  including my amendment, No. 269, to provide a $24.1 million increase  within the RDT&E-Defense Wide Account, to the Industrial Base Analysis  and Sustainment Program's (IBAS) Fan-Out Wafer level packaging program  in the en bloc package.

Semiconductors support nearly all Department of Defense (DoD)  activities. Ensuring secure access to leading-edge semiconductors,  however, is a challenge. The pandemic exposed the challenges associated  with the global supply chain, the changing global semiconductor  industry, and the sophistication of U.S. adversaries, who might target  military electronic components.

IBAS is dedicated to ensuring that the DoD is positioned to  effectively address industrial base issues and support the National  Security Innovation Base. This includes strengthening and protecting  the domestic semiconductor supply chain to provide access to leading- edge capabilities to accelerate innovation. One of the next generation  semiconductor technologies that IBAS is focusing on is called Advanced  Packing.

Advanced Packaging essentially removes the green circuit board, and  connects each component chip onto each other, like how individual Lego  pieces can be stacked on top of each other to form a Lego set. This  next generation process fully integrates all component chips into a  single, advanced packaged, chip. Currently, 98 percent of these  advanced packaging, integrated processes, are done in Asia, where  foreign entities can insert malicious processes into these integrated  chips in a way that is not easily identifiable. IBAS is working to  provide secure, credible, and reliable domestic advanced packaged  semiconductor manufacturing capability.

Fanout wafer level packaging technology is a critical leading-edge  advanced packaging technology, providing a high degree of size, weight,  and power performance improvements over traditional packaging  processes. My amendment will allow the DoD to leverage existing public- private-partnerships to quickly expand domestic U.S. based  semiconductor manufacturing development platforms for critical advanced  semiconductor system integration, including fan-out wafer level  packaging technology.

U.S. global leadership in semiconductors depends on U.S. owned firms  operating at the leading-edge of advanced packaging technologies. The  next generation of electronic devices will require significantly  greater functional density, in other words, packing chips together even  more tightly than current technology allows. This requires technical  leadership in semiconductor advanced packaging  processes, including fanout wafer level packaging.

I believe Congress should continue to provide the resources necessary  to update our domestic microelectronics security framework. I am proud  of the work being undertaken in my district's semiconductor technology  district, known as NeoCity, to support domestic semiconductor  manufacturing technology development as we work to address this  critical supply chain. I look forward to continuing to work with my  colleagues to support this goal.