Recognizing Geraldine F. Thompson's Service to the Great State of Florida


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689507/recognizing-geraldine-f-thompsons-service-to-the-great-state-of-florida


Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, Geraldine F. Thompson was born in New Orleans,  Louisiana, and grew up in the South Dade town of Perrine, Florida,  where members of her family worked in agriculture and construction. She  was married to the Honorable Emerson R. Thompson, Jr. She was the  mother of three children--Laurise, Emerson III, and Elizabeth--and the  proud grandmother of six granddaughters and one great-grandson. She  enjoyed reading, writing, volunteering, and traveling.

She attended Miami Dade Community College. After receiving a  scholarship to the University of Miami, she received an undergraduate  degree in 1970 and a Master of Science from Florida State University in  1973. Geraldine F. Thompson served for six years as an Orange County  Public Schools teacher. She later served for 24 years as an  administrator at Valencia Community College, where she established the  College Reach Out Program, which enabled thousands of low-income and  disadvantaged students to fulfill their dream of going to college.

Senator Thompson developed a reputation as a respected local  historian for compiling the history of African Americans in Central  Florida and authoring the book ``Black America: Orlando, Florida.'' She  developed a passion for the history of African Americans in Central  Florida. She wrote a play based on her book called ``A Vote a Voice.''

Her passion led her to preserve one of Orlando's unique landmarks,  the Wells'Built Hotel. During the days of segregation, it provided  lodging to some of America's most prominent citizens, including Justice  Thurgood Marshall, Ray Charles, and performers on the chitlin circuit.  Today, that landmark is known as the Wells'Built Museum of African  American History and Culture.

She served in the Florida House of Representatives from 2006 to 2012  and 2018 to 2022. She was elected to the Florida Senate in 2012 and  served until 2016, and she was serving as the senator of Senate  District 15 in Orlando at the time of her death. Significant  legislation that she initiated and passed included bills to exonerate  the Groveland Four, provide compensation to James Joseph Richardson,  who was wrongfully incarcerated for 22 years, outlaw discrimination  against pregnant women in the workplace, and a Specialty License Plate  to benefit organizations that comprise the Divine Nine with 85 percent  of the proceeds from the sale of the plate benefitting the  organizations to support scholarships.

Career highlights, honors, and awards include: Having roads  designated for Bob Billingslea, July Perry, Edna Hargrett, and Bessie  Coleman; Resolution for George Starke and exoneration of the Groveland  Four; Recipient of the 2022-2023 Humanitarian Award from the Orlando  International Film Festival; 2021 Civil Rights Hall of Fame from City  of Orlando 2022; Outstanding Public Official Award from Healthy Start  Coalition of Orange County; 2019 MLK Humanitarian Award from Central  Florida Steppers; 2022 Warrior for Democracy Award from The League of  Women's Voters: 2022 Mountain Top Trailblazer Award from Cultured  Pearls of Alpha Kappa Alpha; 2018 Drum Major Social Justice Award from  Alpha Pi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.; 2016 Legislative Advocacy Award from  Democratic Women's Club of Florida Inc.; 2013 Mary Hatwood Human and  Civil Rights Award from the National Education Association; 2012 Martin  Luther King Jr. Achievement Award from Inter-Civic Council of the  Southern Christian Leadership Council; 1996 Commitment to Excellence  Award from Mid-Florida Chapter of NFBPA; 1992 Summit Award from the  Women's Source Center; and Life Time Achievement Award from the  Metropolitan Orlando Urban League.