And Still I Rise: Denouncing the President's Authoritar-Ianism and Recognizing the Impeachment Warriors


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692296/and-still-i-rise-denouncing-the-presidents-authoritar-ianism-and-recognizing-the-impeachment-warriors


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise, a proud,  liberated, unbought, unbossed, and unafraid Democrat. I am proud, Mr.  Speaker, to say that I rise today to recognize those whom I call the  impeachment warriors.

I had a press statement that was sent out, and I would like to read  just a few words from it, Mr. Speaker.

It reads: ``Media Advisory and Public Notice'' ``Congressman Al Green  recognizes the significant battle won by impeachment warriors.''

Then there is a subtitle: ``Kilmar Abrego Garcia has been returned to  the United States and may get the due process authoritarian President  Trump declared he had no constitutional right to.''

Mr. Speaker, I am very proud of these organizations and what they  have done. They have made a difference. These organizations have been  on the front line to prevent an authoritarian President from devolving  our country into a total state of authoritarianism.

These organizations have taken the time to organize and mobilize  within our communities, and these organizations deserve an expression  of appreciation.

I believe that organizations that go to this length should have a  flag flown over the United States Capitol to honor what they have done,  Mr. Speaker. I have in my hand such a flag. This is the flag that was  presented to me upon my arrival in Congress by a Member of Congress. I  cherish it, and I have kept it. This flag was flown over the United  States Capitol.

I plan to have a similar flag flown over the United States Capitol  for each of the following organizations. For edification purposes,  these flags will be flown over the same Capitol, up the same flagpole  that had a flag flown for President Kennedy, for Dr. Martin Luther  King, and for Rosa Parks. I want them honored because of what they are  doing to prevent an authoritarian President from devolving our country  into full-blown authoritarianism.

Mr. Speaker, one of the organizations that I would like to call to  the attention of this Congress would be Free Speech For People. This  organization has acquired more than 600,000 signed statements and  petitions to impeach and remove President Trump from office.

The Women's March is another organization that has been engaged. The  Mayday Movement, the Fourteenth Now! movement, and the Citizens'  Impeachment movement.

I have two friends that I would like to single out who have been very  helpful: Jessica Denson would be one. She is with ``Lights On with  Jessica Denson,'' a podcast, and my constitutional law friend, attorney  John Bonifaz.

I plan to have these flags flown this week, and they will be  presented to these organizations at a later time.

These flags will represent what I believe is a true testament from  one Member of Congress to say to them:

Please know that you have won a battle. You have been able       to bring Mr. Garcia back to this country with your work.       However, that battle doesn't mean that the war is over. We       still have a war to fight because we have an authoritarian       President in office.

I have in my hand, Mr. Speaker, a column from The Washington Post.  This story from The Washington Post is dated June 9, 2025. It reads as  follows. This is the style of the story. It reads: ``California  Governor Gavin Newsom says Trump is stepping toward authoritarianism.''

An excerpt from the actual story reads: California Governor Gavin  Newsom should be arrested.

This is something that President Trump said.

This is from the story:

President Donald Trump said that he thought California       Governor Gavin Newsom should be arrested, a claim that Newsom       described as an unmistakable step toward authoritarianism.

I concur with what he said about the step, but I would simply say  this: I think we are already there. We are in a country wherein a  President has devolved democracy into authoritarianism. This President  has done so by using executive orders. He has done so by using the very  courts to move his executive orders, but by moving them such that they  move slowly and get to a final judgment that would be against him.

This President has disrespected the Federal courts. He has  disrespected the orders of the court. When the courts have said to him:  Even if you differ with our orders, you have to appeal these orders.  You cannot decide that you are going to proceed notwithstanding the  court's failure to implement the orders that you think should be  implemented.

This President has decided that judges should be impeached if they  decline to follow his mandates. He has said ugly things about the  judiciary and has gone so far as to say that some judges don't deserve  to be on the bench and that these judges should be removed by way of  orders of impeachment emanating from this very House.

This President has devolved democracy into authoritarianism. He is a  President ripe for impeachment, and impeachment is what we shall bring  to the attention of this House.

We have already filed H. Res. 415 to impeach the President. This  resolution deals with the acts that he has perpetrated related to the  removal of a person from this country without due process, without  giving this person the opportunity to say: You have made a mistake,  notwithstanding the fact that his administration acknowledges that a  mistake was made.

This President, pursuant to these articles, should be removed from  office because judges told him that he had made a mistake and that he  should facilitate the bringing of this person back to the country, and  he has not done so as of the time these articles were filed.

This President knows that the removal without due process was an  improper action; but he did it, notwithstanding the knowledge that was  accorded him by some members of his staff, some persons in his  administration.

So I say to you, H. Res. 415 would be Articles of Impeachment that we  will call to the attention of the public. This means that they will be  voted on. They will be voted on in this House. I will read them. They  will then be read again by the clerk, and, thereafter, they will be  voted on.

Those who vote to table--and there will be a motion to table. Those  who vote to table will be voting against the Articles of Impeachment,  notwithstanding all of the evidence. Those who vote to have the  articles move forward will vote against tabling the Articles of  Impeachment. Then we will let the record stand, and I suggest to  everyone to vote your conscience. I will be voting to avoid tabling  these Articles of Impeachment.

I am going beyond these Articles of Impeachment. I am going to file  additional Articles of Impeachment this month, and these articles will  relate to not only the President but also the Vice President. Both of  them should be removed from office, President and Vice President, and I  will present these Articles of Impeachment to this House this month. I  don't know that I will bring them to a vote this month, but I do know  that they will be presented to the House this month.

The President is unfit to hold the office that he has. The things  that he says and the things that he has done are clearly indicative of  an authoritarian presidency.

Mr. Speaker, I have been censured by this House for the things that I  have done. I was in here, and I called to the attention of the  President that he had no right--I didn't say right. I said that he  didn't have a mandate, but I was, in essence, saying he had no right to  eliminate or to cut Medicaid. Then I went on to talk about Social  Security and Medicare.

I was among the very first to call this to the attention of not only  this House and the President but literally to the attention of this  country and the globe. I was right then, and I am right now. The  President is cutting, by and through the Members of the House and soon  to be the Senate, money from Medicaid, some $700 billion. He is going  to cut now Medicare, and only God knows what will happen as it relates  to Social Security in the hands of my Republican colleagues.

I believe that we cannot allow a President to do these things without  challenging him, without confronting him whenever we have the  opportunity.

Having done so, I was censured for what I did, and I accepted my  censure. I accepted it. It doesn't mean that I agreed with it, but I  accepted my censure because I believe that if you protest, you have got  to be prepared to suffer the consequences. I was prepared to suffer the  consequences. I don't agree with them. I believe that when we do things  that contravene the law, things that are not in harmony with society,  things that are causing harm to society, I believe that there are  punishments that we should suffer. If you break the law, you should  suffer punishment.

I believe that a President who is breaking the law by avoiding the  constitutional responsibilities imposed upon him by his oath of office,  by the Constitution itself, I believe that when  he does this, impeachment is the remedy. If the courts cannot control  him and my Republican colleagues, who have the majority in the House  and the Senate, won't control him, then the only thing left is  impeachment.

That means that the Congress of the United States of America, in this  House, this will become the court of last resort. We plan to use the  court of last resort to bring justice to the country for what an unfit  President is doing to devolve our democracy into autocracy.

I believe that this is something that must be done, notwithstanding  the fact that I have been censured, yes; but I haven't been silenced,  and I will not be silenced. I will not be silenced because too much is  at stake. The country is devolving into this autocracy, this  authoritarianism, and we have to speak up.

I don't ask others to do what I do. I don't mind standing alone. If  it means standing alone, I will stand alone. I would hope that there  would be others of goodwill who would stand also. If they don't, I  leave that to them to deal with as they choose to navigate their way  through this Congress and through life.

I have been silenced, no. I have been censured, yes. I plan to  continue with this movement. This movement is something that I call now  a countdown to impeachment. This countdown is something that I embrace.  I embrace it with my friends, all of whom I have named, but I think  sometimes it bears repeating certain things.

I want the folk over at Free Speech For People to know that this  countdown to impeachment includes them, and there are more than 6,000  persons they have on their petition.

The Women's March, a group of women who have come together to claim  and demand that women have the respect in this society that men have.  As an example: Men get paid more for work that women are doing, the  same work, but don't get equal pay. Some estimate it to be about 20- plus percent, maybe 25, 26 percent. Well, there isn't a man alive who  is worth 26 cents more than a woman. We have to make sure that the  Women's March is supported, and I am going to support them.

The Mayday Movement, a movement started to make sure that this  President knows that there are people who are going to march and  protest to make sure he is impeached. They are all a part of the  countdown to impeachment.

The Fourteenth Now! movement is something that started very early on  in the Presidency and the President's reign this time, in this  President's term of office. This movement was started to prevent what  is happening now, and that is our government is devolving into  authoritarianism.

Finally, the Citizens' Impeachment movement, this movement is  something that has grassroots elements associated with it across the  country. I am proud to say that they are part of the countdown to  impeachment.

Again, a flag will be flown in honor of these organizations for the  efforts that they have made. I will bring additional Articles of  Impeachment to the attention of the Congress this month to impeach not  only the President but also the Vice President.

Finally, the articles that I have presented already to this Congress  will be read, and they will be voted on. Make no mistake about it, I  will bring additional Articles of Impeachment because this President  continues to breach the mandates of the Constitution. As long as he  continues to do it, I will continue to bring Articles of Impeachment. I  think we are laying the foundation for his being impeached.

Finally, there are those who contend that we should not impeach at  this time. Well, I contend that there are many things that we bring to  the floor of the House that we don't get the kind of results that we  desire when we bring them initially, many things.

We have brought the equality legislation before the House, and we  passed it twice in the House. That doesn't mean that we are not going  to continue with it. We are not going to give up on it. It took us  almost 100 years to get the Affordable Care Act. We never gave up on  it.

Bringing things to the attention of the House that don't get passed  the first time, that is nothing new. I believe that we will do this,  and we will be persistent with it.

I know that as we do it, we will gain additional momentum. There will  be many who won't vote for it initially, but then there will be more  the second time that will--and more the third time, the fourth time,  and however many times it is necessary to get us to our final Articles  of Impeachment that will bring President Trump down. He does not  deserve to hold the office that he holds.

Mr. Speaker, impeachment is the remedy when the courts can't control  him and when his party won't control him. It is left up to us, those of  us who have the will and courage to bring Articles of Impeachment  before the Congress of the United States of America.

This will be done. This is my pledge. The countdown to impeachment  continues.