Authoritarianism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692116/authoritarianism


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise. Mr. Speaker, and  still I  rise, proud to be an American, proud of what this country stands for. I  also rise as a person who is censured. I have been censured, but I have  not been silenced.

I rise as an unbought, unbossed, unafraid, liberated Democrat. As  such, I rise to speak on a topic today that I believe to be most  important to the American people, most important to posterity, most  important to the direction of the country, most important to who we  are.

The topic is about Congress and why Congress is the court of last  resort for an authoritarian President.

Let me start by saying this that I think is exceedingly important.  There are many among us who would manage authoritarianism. They would  want to find a way to work with it, to become a part of it if it  benefits them, to make it something that is acceptable to many of the  people in the classes and, perhaps, some of the people in the masses.

I am not one of the persons who would do this. I believe that  authoritarianism, Mr. Speaker, must not be managed. It must be  eliminated.

This country was founded upon the basic premise that it would be a  democratic republic where you elect your Representatives to vote for  you. This is a democracy. As such, in this democratic republic, I  choose to stand and fight this movement toward authoritarianism. I  stand to do so because the greatness of America is not going to be  found among a very few who have power concentrated in their hands or in  a single person who has power concentrated in his hands. That is not  where the greatness of America is achieved.

The greatness of America is achieved by the people having the power  and the people making the decisions; by having a Supreme Court that is  respected, that is honored; by having a judiciary that is respected; by  having a Congress that is respected; by avoiding what could become  authoritarianism that metamorphoses into something even greater in harm  to this country than the authoritarianism that we face today.

I rise to indicate that Congress is the court of last resort for an  authoritarian President, and here is why. It is the court of last  resort because when an authoritarian issues executive orders and  expects them to be honored, even when the courts disagree; when an  authoritarian believes that his orders supersede, supplant, if you  will, the rule of law, supersede what has become commonplace in terms  of understanding the rule of law in this country; when an authoritarian  will defy Federal courts, including the Supreme Court, then we have to  conclude that the Supreme Court may not be the court of last resort as  it should be for an authoritarian President, someone who is assuming  power that he should not assume with executive orders that cannot  change the Constitution.

When we have a President who, by executive order, believes that he  can remove people from the country without due process, and when this  President is told that due process must be accorded people before he  can take this extreme action, and when this President is told not only  must there be due process, but if you believe that the court has made a  ruling that is inappropriate, that the court has made a mistake, you  must still honor that court order and appeal; that the appellate courts  will then take charge of what you believe to be an incorrect decision  by the courts.

When I see a President saying to the country that a court that has  issued an order that he does not agree with but contends is  inappropriate for various and sundry reasons, when I see that President  say that the judge that issued that order should be impeached, you are  now moving into authoritarianism.

When that President then sits with others in his Cabinet and they are  caught on national TV indicating why they can defy the Federal court's  orders, after having been told that they have to appeal, after having  been told that they cannot do what they have done, after having been  told that they have to facilitate the return of someone that they have  improperly, and according to what members of this administration have  said, removed from the country by mistake, then you have to bring that  person the relief necessary for that person to raise his hand and say,  You got the wrong person; for that person to say, I want my rights of  due process under the law in this country.

We have a President who believes that his executive orders exceed and  supersede the orders of Federal courts.

How do I know? I know because he has not returned a person to this  country that he was told to facilitate the return of such that he could  receive due process or just facilitate such that this person could get  due process. It hasn't happened.

The lower courts have told him at the Federal level, the Supreme  Court has told him, and the evidence now exists that he understands  what facilitate means because there was a second person who was removed  without due process, removed to another country without due process,  and that person is being brought back because the judge in a Federal  court said you have to facilitate the return.

They know what facilitate means. They are just being defiant. They  are just ignoring the orders of the Federal courts.

They are flouting the orders of the Supreme Court of the United  States of America.

Make no mistake about it: We are now dealing with an authoritarian  President who I choose not to manage. I choose to eliminate the  authoritarianism. I don't want us to try to find a way to get along  with an authoritarian.

If the Supreme Court cannot manage this authoritarian President to  the extent that he would cease and desist and obey the Court's orders  and if an authoritarian President now has total control of the  Republicans who represent this House and the Senate--total control of  them--they are not going to be able to do anything because he manages  their affairs.

They have become people who look for a sense of direction. He has  become their North Star. He has become the means by which they conclude  that they will go this way, or they will move in that direction.

They can't do anything because they have surrendered their  sovereignty. They have surrendered their power to make judicious  decisions to an authoritarian President. The Supreme Court can't stop  him. The Republicans who control the House and Senate won't stop him.  We have an authoritarian President.

When you have an authoritarian President, you do have a court of last  resort: The Constitution. Article II, Section 4 of the Constitution  makes it explicitly clear that we can impeach, and we can impeach for  this type of behavior. It is not in these exact words. It uses language  that we are all familiar with: ``high crimes,'' ``misdemeanors,''  ``treason,'' or ``bribery.''

Yet, we have an authoritarian President who is defying the courts,  who does not respect the separation of powers. We have an authoritarian  President who would demean and minimize the role of the judiciary and  our system of governance.

With such an authoritarian President, impeachment and this  congressional court of last resort is within the power of all 435  Members of the House because the congressional court of last resort has  to have a prosecutor. Any one of the 435 can become the prosecutor once  you see that impeachable actions are taking place. Any one of us can  become the prosecutor.

The prosecutor will have what we will have called the equivalent of a  grand jury. That will be the rest of the Members of the House of  Representatives, 435 of us. Some of us can act as prosecutors. It  doesn't have to be one. It can be more than one. It can be many. It  could be as many as would want to sign a resolution to impeach.

Impeachment and a congressional court of last resort is where we are  now. This is the room where the congressional court of last resort  would be convened, and it is convened here before a prosecutor, a  Member of this august body. It is not known as a prosecutor, but I am  saying it to you such that you can understand this process and see that  it is akin to something else that you really do understand.

This prosecutor, this person, this Member of Congress will have to  stand  and read these Articles of Impeachment. This is done now because,  remember, the Supreme Court can't control this authoritarian President,  and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle won't control this  authoritarian President. They have the power to, but they won't.

Mr. Speaker, impeachment and this congressional court of last resort,  Congress is where the court of last resort lies.

I am familiar with impeachment. I understand the process. I want you  to know that it is imminent. A vote takes place with this grand jury  that I called to your attention, which would be the Members of  Congress. We need but only a majority of the Members of Congress to  vote in favor of impeachment, and a President can be removed from  office. An authoritarian President can be removed from office.

If you don't like authoritarianism and you believe that you have an  authoritarian President, then you would vote for the Articles of  Impeachment.

Mr. Speaker, is there any proof that there are people who don't like  authoritarianism and who would vote, in theory, for impeachment? Yes.  Before the election that brought Donald John Trump to the Presidency  this time, before he was sworn in by the Chief Justice of the Supreme  Court, there were many among us--and I am one of the many--who talked  about this very topic and who prognosticated this very behavior that we  are seeing. It was not the exact behavior, but behavior that would be  indicative of a person becoming an authoritarian.

There were some who said that he would be a fascist. There were some  who said that he would be a dictator. The point is that there are many  people who are Members of this House who made this prognostication.  What is absolutely amazing is that many of them who made these  prognostications and who have seen their prognostications become a  reality may not vote to impeach.

I am going to give you what I believe is a rationale. I think this is  a vote of conscience. People have to vote their conscience. If your  conscience tells you no, then I think you should follow your  conscience. I cannot, in good conscience, say the things that I have  said about this authoritarian President, see it become a reality, and  then take no action.

I cannot in good conscience, but there are people who can do this in  good conscience. I have no ill feelings toward them. I don't count the  votes. I count what is necessary to be done. It is necessary for us to  take action to remove an authoritarian President from office.

The only way it can be done is right here in this Chamber. Someone  has to act as a prosecutor and bring the Articles of Impeachment to the  attention of this august body, at which time there would be a vote on  these Articles of Impeachment. As some people will vote to table, there  is always going to be a vote to table.

Mr. Speaker, some of my colleagues on the other side have alleged  that this is a great thing. This is a great thing. We are going to have  impeachment again. This is a great thing. Let them bring it on.

If you truly believe this, then you vote for the Articles of  Impeachment. You vote against tabling because there will be a motion to  table. Vote against tabling. All of my Republican colleagues who are  saying this, you vote against tabling, and then see what the other side  does since you are absolutely convinced that this is going to be a  benefit to an authoritarian President.

It is not going to be a benefit. We will take that vote. Those who  vote to table will be voting against the Articles of Impeachment. Those  who vote against tabling will be voting for the Articles of  Impeachment.

I said to you that I have some experience in dealing with this. I am  the person who laid the foundation for President Donald John Trump's  impeachment when he was impeached the first time around. I am using a  personal pronoun only to communicate, but the truth is there were other  persons who engaged in this process with me. I will tell you about  these other persons.

I have here something that has been removed from the wall of my  office. It is something that indicates who the persons were who  participated favorably, meaning indicating that there should be an  impeachment, when the first Articles of Impeachment were filed. This is  on the wall in my office. The press assumed that it would be only Al  Green. They were wrong. They may be right this time. It may just be  only Al Green.

I will stand alone because when it is a question of conscience, it is  better to stand alone than to not stand at all.

The press thought that there would be probably Al Green and maybe one  or two others, which may be the case this time. Yet, believe me, it  will not deter me.

What is interesting is that I have this on my wall. By the way, many  of the people who are listed here as persons who supported H. Res. 646,  many of the people who supported H. Res. 646, many of them who are  listed here, they have a similar document in their offices, and they  will have it on their coffee tables.

When people would come in, because this became such an important  issue, they were proud to display this and say, yes, I voted to  impeach. Yes, I did. That was important.

It is going to become important again. Make no mistake about it, it  will be important again.

I am not going to name all the persons on this first article of a  resolution for impeachment, but I will tell you that there were 58.  They were known as the first 58.

There is one person who I will mention because I am proud and he was  proud to have associated with these Articles of Impeachment. I remember  talking to him right in this area about impeachment.

I will not divulge the entirety of the conversation, but I am proud  to say this: The Honorable John Lewis has his name on these Articles of  Impeachment--the Honorable John Lewis, the first 58.

The first 58 was not sufficient, and I knew that it wouldn't be. By  the way, whenever I say ``I,'' assume that I am saying ``we'' because  there were persons who were engaged in helping me.

I knew that it would not be enough, and I knew that we would have to  continue to build on this to generate a mass such that impeachment  could no longer be ignored. Many of the people who were opposed to  impeachment were making it clear that certain things would have to  happen before there could be impeachment.

You would have to have bipartisan support for impeachment. You would  have to have--well, let's just say certain things. If I say more, I  will probably say enough that you will know who I am talking about, and  I don't care to mention names at this time. If I am forced to, I will.

We moved forward with a second impeachment. This was H. Res. 705.  Many Members of Congress had something similar to this in their  offices. It could have been a very large display that would unfold, and  it was on coffee tables. It was placed in various places in  congressional offices.

I placed this on the wall in my congressional office, along with the  other article that I just called to your attention. This was H. Res.  705.

It did not grow by what some would consider a very large number, but  it did move to 66 Members of Congress with H. Res. 705.

The reason I know Members are in possession of these documents that I  have called to your attention that were displayed is because I sent  them to the Members. I sent Members a thank-you, as we customarily do  here, and it was something that they could display in the office. I had  many Members and many people say that it was a good idea.

Continuing, knowing that 66 was not enough, we brought articles  before Congress again. This time, the number hit what I call critical  mass. It caused people who were antithetical to the idea to embrace the  idea.

By the way, I never thought that it had to be the exact articles that  I presented. I never thought it had to be that, but I knew that there  had to be impeachment, and these articles that I presented had to do  very much with invidious discrimination, something I will say more  about later.

This time, we had 95 people who supported the articles, H. Res. 498.  What is important about H. Res. 498 is this. When you add the persons  who supported H. Res. 498 with the persons who  supported the other articles, you then move beyond 100 people--well  beyond 100 people who were supporting impeachment.

Some supported one set of articles and some did not, but then they  supported another, so you have H. Res. 498 with 95 persons supporting  the Articles of Impeachment.

There is but one solution to an authoritarian President who cannot be  controlled by the Supreme Court because he flouts the orders of the  Supreme Court, who won't be controlled by Members of his party because  he has control over the party. There is but one solution. There is but  one place where that solution can manifest itself, and that is the  House of Representatives.

Congress has become the court of last resort for an authoritarian  President. As such, I pledged to many before today and pledge to the  Nation today that in this month, in this month, there will be a vote on  the floor of this House, a vote to advance Articles of Impeachment this  month. It is necessary, and it will be done.

I truly believe in what the country stands for. I know that it has  not always lived up to the expectations written in the great documents  that support what the country stands for. I know that it has not always  lived up to these expectations, but I also know this. It is a country  with due process, with free speech, with freedom of religion. It is a  country where I can vote. It is a country where I can fight to make the  difference so that it can live up to these great ideals expressed in  these great documents, the Declaration of Independence, the  Constitution.

I am going to fight to maintain the right to fight. That is what this  is all about. Not fighting in the sense that I am going to go out and  harm someone, not fighting in the sense that I am going to use some  means of using physicality. No, that is not what I am talking about.

I am going to fight with peaceful protests. I believe in peaceful  protest. I do not in any way condone persons who go out and harm other  people, and I have said as much.

Yes, I get all the backlash that others get when they say as much,  but I absolutely will continue to say peaceful protest is the way to  make change that can make the difference.

I can do it through peaceful protest, and I am going to do it. That  is the kind of fighting I am talking about, peaceful protests.

I can also do it with litigation. We have protestation, litigation. I  have signed on to many briefs, and I will continue to do so.  Protestation, litigation, but we also have something else. We have  legislation. That is what Articles of Impeachment are, legislation.

Protestation, absolutely, I will never give up my right to protest. I  am going to fight to maintain that right to protest, protestation.  Litigation, I believe in the court system. Then, of course, this whole  notion of legislation.

These are the means by which we can make the difference. I assure my  friends, my colleagues, persons, this is official notice. There will be  a vote on articles to impeach Donald John Trump, who is now President  of the United States.

I do it because conscience dictates that this be done, and it has  become a moral imperative that we have to proceed with.

Now, I close with this. This is something that came to my attention  just recently. There are people who believe, I think, that I will be  intimidated. They believe that I will be intimidated.

Now, these are people--other than those who have already made their  many threats that have not intimidated me, but there is a new movement  afoot now to do what cannot be done, as they see it, fast enough  through the electoral process, meaning my removal from office.

They don't think that the electoral process works efficaciously-- effectively, if you will, for them. I was saying efficaciously, but  let's just say effectively for them. The Governor of my State, while I  am in trial currently defending the Ninth Congressional District--I  have been in trial for many years, so this is nothing unusual to defend  this district, to keep this district.

It has been difficult. Lots of money has been spent just fighting to  maintain the Ninth Congressional District. The Governor of my State has  now decided that it is appropriate, according to the sources that have  called it to my attention, and many have. Many persons in the  legislative body in the State of Texas have called this to my  attention--has established what is called a redistricting commission or  committee.

With this redistricting commission or committee, the Governor is  going to try--I am being told--to draw the lines for these  congressional districts so that it will be either difficult or  impossible for me to get reelected.

Here is my message to those who would stoop to this level of  political shenanigans, as I see it. Here is my message to you: The  people who elected me are more important than my being reelected. I am  going to stand up for the people who elected me. My re-election is not  the issue. You can take me out. There will be another Al Green. There  is always going to be one more.

The world seems to be put together such that there is always someone  who will stand up. You can take me out, but you are not going to  intimidate me. I am saying this to the Governor of the State of Texas:  Do what you may. Redraw the lines such that I could never get  reelected, but I guarantee you this, as long as I am here, I may be  censured, but I won't be silenced.