Black History: Stolen Legacies


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700075/black-history-stolen-legacies


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise, a proud,  liberated, unbought, unbossed, and unafraid Democrat.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today because this is Black History Month, and I  have been accorded the honor of presenting annually the original Black  history resolution.

I am proud to do this in concert with a great organization. This  organization has been bearing the torch, carrying the torch--the  flame--of Black history now for so many years, founded by the Honorable  Carter G. Woodson, who is widely known as the person who established  this notion of a Black History Week, Black History Month. So I am  proud to recognize this organization. The organization is the  Association for the Study of African-American Life and History.

This is the preeminent organization of its kind. It is the leader of  the pack when it comes to Black history, and I am proud to be  associated with them and proud to tell you that this year, for our  Black History Month, there is a theme: A Century of Black History  Commemorations. A century, 100 years.

Today, I have chosen the topic, one that I think embraces something  that is a little bit more contemporary and something that gives us  reason to understand why we have to celebrate Black history.

The topic is Black History: Stolen Legacies. Stolen legacies. Black  History: Stolen Legacies.

Mr. Speaker, fear not, because I want you to understand that I  understand that this theme could be applicable to people of color in  this country. It could be applicable to persons who are Latinos. It  could be applicable to people who are Asians because the complete  history of the country has not been properly documented and recorded.  However, since it is Black History Month, I think it appropriate that I  take up the cause and explain it as it relates to Black History Month.

Before I go on, I think I should remind people that I am also the  same Al Green who has been censured. Censured, but not silenced.  Censured, but not silenced.

I am proud today to take up this cause of Black history in Black  History Month.

Mr. Speaker, in speaking of legacies that have been stolen, we  annually honor General Gordon Granger for going into Galveston and  informing the enslaved persons there that the Emancipation Proclamation  applied to them and that they were free people, liberated people.

When we do this, however, we do not acknowledge the people who made  it possible for General Gordon Granger to go to Galveston. These  persons were members of the 25th Army Corps, approximately 1,000  persons of African ancestry who went to Galveston prior to Gordon  Granger.

They made it possible for Gordon Granger to stand in Galveston and  deliver general order No. 3. These were the persons who ran the  Confederates all the way to the Mexican border--legacies stolen because  they have literally been minimized and had their histories somehow  sanitized.

Today, we want to make sure that we talk about these persons whose  legacies have been stolen: 25th Army Corps.

Let's bring this forward to the civil rights movement. In the civil  rights movement, we honor--and we should honor--Rosa Parks, a Black  woman who took her seat on a bus in a racist southern town. When she  took that seat, she ignited a spark that started the civil rights  movement.

Rosa Parks should be honored for what she did. She was incarcerated  for what she did. She should be honored, and we do honor her. Yet, Mr.  Speaker, the legacy is incomplete because the history of this has not  been completely told.

If the true history is told, you have to mention Claudette Colvin-- Claudette Colvin, a 15-year-old high school student, member of the  NAACP. Claudette Colvin, she is a person who, 9 months prior to Rosa  Parks taking that seat, did the same thing and was arrested. Legacy  stolen, legacy denied.

Claudette Colvin, not only did she go to jail and suffer the same  indignation and humiliation as the Honorable Rosa Parks, but she did  something else. She filed a lawsuit. She was a plaintiff in the lawsuit  Browder v. Gayle.

This is the lawsuit that brought the Montgomery bus boycott to a  legal end because it was under the pen of the Honorable Frank M.  Johnson, Jr., a Federal district court judge, who ordered that that bus  line be integrated and no longer segregated.

This was the dispute that took place when Dr. King was promoted to  the leadership of the civil rights movement. This is where he led the  people in this bus boycott to make sure that, at some point, Black  people could sit on any seat on the bus that they chose to, because  they couldn't.

You could take a seat on the front or somewhere near the front, and  people could simply say: Move back. There is a White person who needs  your seat. Then you move back, and if another came on: Move back. There  is another White person who needs your seat.

This is true history. This is the history that is untold.

So Dr. King led the boycott. Rosa Parks started the initiative, but  it was Claudette Colvin who took the lawsuit to the Supreme Court, the  lawsuit filed that eventually caused a judge, Frank M. Johnson, Jr., to  rule that that line had to be desegregated.

Claudette Colvin has been denied her place in history. Very little is  said about her.

Now, I would like to contemporize, and this is going to give people  an understanding as to this pattern of denying Black people their  proper place in history, this pattern of stealing legacies, of  whitewashing history as it relates to Black people--and it happens to  people of color, not just Black people--and people of color it has  happened to in this country. So, let's now contemporize as it relates  to Black history and talk about something that happened in the State of  Texas.

We have a President of the United States who concluded that he had to  have five more seats for the Republican side in Congress, five more  seats to hold on to power, five more seats to continue to be the  reckless, ruthless, lawless President that he is, five more seats.  Because if he loses the House, he loses his ability to do many of the  things that the House can constrain him and prevent him from doing,  because the House controls the purse strings.

He said: I want five seats. Four of the five that he actually  identified were minority coalition seats, where minority people were  electing the persons of their choice, and they were electing minority  people. Well, he wanted five, four of the five being these seats that  could elect minority people, minority people coalescing to elect  people, a legitimate thing for people to do.

Well, in so doing, he ordered the Governor to do this. The Governor  got with the attorney general. The two of them worked it out such that  seats were taken in Texas.

I am just going to focus on one of them. In Houston, Texas, we had  the 18th Congressional District, historic as it is called quite often-- and I concur with the persons who would call it such; the historic 18th  Congressional District--the 18th Congressional District, the district  of Barbara Jordan, the district that had the great Craig Washington,  Mickey Leland, Sheila Jackson Lee, Sylvester Turner, the 18th  Congressional District, a historic Congressional District.

The 18th Congressional District was adjacent to the Ninth  Congressional District. We will call it, for our purposes today, the  old 18th Congressional District, and you will understand better why in  just a moment, located adjacent to the Ninth Congressional District. In  fact, if you look north and south, the 18th was at the top, and the  Ninth was under the 18th. The Ninth Congressional District was one that  elected a person of color, as well.

The President and the Governor decided that they would do something  called crack. This is where you break a district, and then you pack-- you take it and push the persons in those two districts together, but  in so doing, you eliminate a district. In this case, that is what they  did. So they cracked, and they packed. They stacked. They put the Ninth  and the 18th together.

When they put the Ninth and the 18th together, they eliminated the  possibility for a person of color to be elected in the Ninth District  by moving the lines for it over to another area.

Now, I shouldn't say ``eliminate.'' Anything can happen. My belief is  that there are capable, competent, and qualified people running, but  the prognostication is that the configuration of it in terms of the  numbers is likely to elect a conservative person, probably a very  conservative person. My hope is that won't happen.

In any event, coming back to the Ninth and the 18th, when they  combined these two districts, they eliminated the possibility for the  people of these two districts to have two Representatives in Congress.  They eliminated that possibility, and they made it possible for only  one to come from these two districts, only one person  from the 18th and the Ninth, only one. When they combined them such  that only one person could be elected from the two, that eliminated the  possibility of another minority person being elected.

Historically, a Black person has represented the Ninth, and Black  people have represented the 18th in Congress.

When this was done, if you look at it just numerically, the people of  the Ninth are losing a Representative if you look at numbers, but if  you look at it deeply, within what happened, they put more of the  people from the Ninth District in this new 18th than from the old 18th  District. Approximately two-thirds of the people in this Ninth District  are in the new 18th District. Now, you have a district with 18 on it as  its number that is packed with people from District Nine.

Another way to look at it, to simplify, if you have two pies, and you  take a slice out of one pie and you decide you are going to add it to  another pie, but only take two slices from the other, and then you  combine them to create three pieces of pie, there would be two pieces  from the Ninth District creating this pie and one piece from the 18th.

That is almost what has happened here, if not exactly what has  happened. Two-thirds of this 18th consists of people from the Ninth  Congressional District.

Now, why is this such a dastardly thing? Because in Texas, we have  struggled for minority people to have representation, from White  primaries--and a person in Houston, Texas, took the case all the way to  the Supreme Court. His name was Lonnie Smith. He was a dentist. He took  it all the way to the Supreme Court to defeat White primaries. When the  Supreme Court said, no, you can't have White primaries, what did Texas  do? Texas decided to have White pre-primaries--true story, White pre- primaries. It had to go all the way back to the Supreme Court, which  said, no, Texas, if you can't have White primaries, you can't have  White pre-primaries.

This is something that is consistent in Texas, in terms of its  behavior as it relates to people of color having proper representation  in Congress.

We now have a circumstance where but one person of color will now be  coming from the Houston area because of these two districts. But one  will come from the two districts that have been combined.

Here is what I have done for our Black History Month. I believe that  people who do such dastardly things ought to be recorded in history for  their dastardly deeds. That is dastard with a d, not a b. They should  be recorded in history as the dastards they are. That is with a b--no,  excuse me. That is with a d. As the dastards they are, they should be  recorded.

Let's talk about the dastards that have perpetrated this invidious  discrimination on the people of the 18th and Ninth Congressional  Districts.

The first dastard to be dealt with is, of course, the President of  the United States, so I have a resolution that condemns President  Donald Trump for ordering an unprecedented midcycle, racist  redistricting effort in Texas--midcycle, racist redistricting in Texas,  President Trump.

I have this resolution because a court concluded that it was racist.  The court concluded under the leadership of the--I say ``leadership,''  the judge who handed the opinion out, who penned the opinion, a  conservative judge, I might add, a Federal judge. This conservative  Federal judge concluded that the lines were racially drawn--racially  drawn. With the lines being racially drawn, this means that they were  using racist tactics.

We want to condemn what the judge found to be the case in Texas from  the three-judge panel, that this is racist. This is what a three-judge  panel concluded: This is racist.

So, we have a resolution condemning the President for this racist  behavior, as we should. We want history to know who these dastards are:  the President of the United States of America, five seats, and make  sure that in Texas, you combine a couple of them. That is what was  done. A couple of them combined so that one Representative is lost to a  minority community.

Well, they didn't stop there. As I said, the Governor performed this  dastardly deed. For doing this, Governor, you should be properly  recognized in history for the dastardly deed that you have done. I have  a resolution that will honor you as such, Governor. This is a  resolution that condemns Texas Governor Greg Abbott for delaying the  election in Texas, the 18th Congressional District, beyond a reasonable  time. The President ordered it. The Governor followed through, but he  didn't stop there. The Governor decided that he would delay the  election for a Representative for the new 18th Congressional District.  Remember, we have the old one that will no longer exist after this  year, and the new one, which will then move forward, that has been-- where we have two districts combined.

The Governor didn't just stop with combining the districts. He  decided he would delay the election for almost a year.

Just recently, a person was elected to represent this old 18th  Congressional District, and now we have an election coming up for the  new 18th Congressional District. If it sounds confusing, it is.

On March 3, there will be an election for the new district, but the  Governor delayed the election for the old district for almost 1 year.  It was just recently that we had the election for the old 18th  Congressional District.

For this Governor, for your dastardly deed, we made a record, and we  are going to honor you for what you have done in delaying the election  for some unreasonable amount of time. History ought to know who you are  and what you did.

But we are not going to stop there. We have to now recognize that  there are some other dastards involved here. We already acknowledged  the President as a dastard and the Governor of the State of Texas as a  dastard.

Now, we have to talk about the Houston Chronicle. The Houston  Chronicle, for whatever reasons, wittingly or unwittingly, has joined  forces with these two dastards. The Houston Chronicle has published  stories, many of them wherein they have indicated in the stories that  two Members of Congress passed, and they did, and that, as a result of  these two Members passing, the Houston Chronicle believes that ageism  is an appropriate thing for them to express continually in their  newspaper.

The Houston Chronicle has engaged in what I call ageism, and if you  read the stories, I think you will come to the same conclusion. So,  they decided they would engage in this ageism.

Here is what they have done. They continually write stories wherein  they talk about the death of these two iconic persons, two great heroes  in Texas history. We don't want their stories diminished in any way.  That would be the Honorable Sheila Jackson Lee and the Honorable  Sylvester Turner.

The Houston Chronicle, one of the dastards, the Houston Chronicle is  engaging in ageism, and here is how they are doing it. The Houston  Chronicle has concluded that ageism is appropriate because the two  persons who preceded the person who is running now, they died while in  office. Somehow, they have decided to charge their deaths with this  monthlong, many months long, almost 1 year long delay in an election.  They talk about their deaths and convince people that you have to be  careful, that people can die. So, if the next person dies, the Governor  would do the same thing. Rather than blame the Governor solely, they  have now transferred some of this to the persons who died.

This is the Houston Chronicle. They are committing ageism by saying  that people don't want to have another person who is of a certain age,  because if you do that, then that person might die.

Who can guarantee life? No one knows for whom the bell will toll  next. No one can guarantee life. Young people die every day. No one can  know. But the Houston Chronicle has made it their mission to campaign  on this issue.

Here is what is interesting about what the Houston Chronicle is  doing. They only apply that theory to a person of color. Senator Cornyn  is running. If Senator Cornyn wins, he gets a 6-year term. Senator  Cornyn will be among the oldest in the Senate, but they don't apply  that to Senator Cornyn. They have not tried to pressure Senator Cornyn  out of a race. In fact,  they have endorsed Senator Cornyn. They have gone so far as to endorse  Senator Cornyn.

Senator Cornyn has Wesley Hunt running against him. He is a younger  person. They haven't said that you ought to elect Wesley Hunt. No, they  have said to elect John Cornyn.

Well, what is it about these two people that makes them different  from the other scenario that I have called to your attention? What is  it, Houston Chronicle? Yes, you are going to see this. You are going to  see me. I do not fear the Houston Chronicle. What is it about this that  allows them to do exactly what they have done?

Well, Wesley Hunt happens to be a person of color. John Cornyn  happens to be a White man. The Houston Chronicle has a different  standard when it comes to John Cornyn.

Just think about that. Think about that, a different standard.

They have an all-out campaign going on. You might say they are the  campaign. Well, for your dastardly deeds, Houston Chronicle, you, too,  will be recorded in history with a resolution.

Now, I want to say just a few more words about these people that they  have demeaned. First, you heard me mention Al Edwards earlier. He is  the father of Juneteenth, the father of Juneteenth. We have a  resolution honoring him as such. For Sylvester Turner, a person who  united diverse communities in Houston for 8 years as mayor, we have a  resolution honoring him for his being that person who created a  symbiosis in Houston, having people of different hues, different  ethnicities, from different places around the world come together.

Finally, we have a resolution honoring the life and enduring public  service of Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.

I--personal pronoun--will not allow their legacies to be stolen. I  will not. And I will not allow dastards not to be recorded as they  properly should be in history. They will not escape history.

Mr. President, you won't escape history.

Mr. Governor, you won't escape history.

Houston Chronicle, you won't escape history.

Now, I want to say just a word about the top culprit in the process,  and that would be the President. The President is the biggest dastard  in the country. President Donald Trump is dastard number one.

This says: ``Countdown to Impeachment.'' This is the President of the  United States of America seated here. I am proud to tell you that I  stood right over there and told the President to his face that you  don't have a mandate to cut Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security.  This was at a joint session of Congress. This dastard said that they  weren't going to do it, and, lo and behold, the dastard did it. They  cut about a trillion dollars out of healthcare. This is the dastard who  perpetrated the deed. He ought to be recognized in history as the  person who did the greatest injustice to healthcare the country has  ever seen, Donald John Trump.

But he has gone beyond this. His behavior is something that is  difficult to codify, difficult to explain, but I will tell you this: He  went too far just recently. He has gone too far on many other  occasions, but recently, he went too far again.

This time, this dastard, Donald John Trump, sent out a meme wherein  he had the gall, unmitigated as we say, where he had just the low-down,  dirty instinct to send out, to post, a picture of the Honorable  President Barack Obama and the First Lady Michelle Obama, to picture  them as members of the primate family. That is what this dastard did to  two of our heroes of Black history.

If he had his way, there would be no Black history. He is the person  who has decided that Black history is going to be minimized because we  talk too much about slavery. He wants slavery to be whitewashed. There  are people in Texas who call it involuntary relocation.

Murder, rape, and 240 years of working without a paycheck is  involuntary relocation?

This dastard supports these kinds of things, this dastard. That is  why we have this across the top of this poster, three words, countdown  to impeachment. Countdown to impeachment.

Yes, Mr. President, I don't speak for anybody but myself. I don't  speak for any party. I don't speak for anyone, well, except myself and  everybody who agrees with me. That is whom I speak for. Mr. President,  not only are you a subject of impeachment, but now Ms. Noem is a  subject of impeachment.

Yes, Ms. Noem, I have signed Articles of Impeachment against you. My  hope is that you do what you should do, in my opinion, which is resign.  I don't think the President would ever fire you, but you have blood on  your hands. You have tried your best to cover up what happened when two  American citizens, who were unarmed, lost their lives at the hands of  the constabulary. You have blood on your hands. You should be  impeached.

You also should go to jail because you tried to cover it up. There is  a law that deals with this kind of behavior. When you know that a  felony has been committed--you know that a felony has been committed,  and you don't report that felony and then you try to cover it up, that  is a crime.

Somebody ought to check out 18 U.S.C. section 4. Yes, you committed a  crime. You ought to be locked up.

People on the other side are notorious for having said: Lock her up,  talking about a Democrat. Here is your chance to repeat your chant:  Lock her up. Lock her up.

Lock up Ms. Noem for what she has done. Impeach Ms. Noem is what we  should do. Aside from impeaching her, she gets her marching orders from  this dastard; he has to be impeached too. We cannot allow this to go  unnoticed and unchallenged. I cannot. I say we and all of the people  who agree with me. There are a good many who do not, and I don't want  to discredit them in any way, but I cannot.

So, we are in a countdown to another impeachment. I am going to call  this the Black History Month impeachment because I am going to deal  with the racism that this President perpetuates, the racism that he  perpetrates, the racism that he places in policies that are harmful to  the American public. I am going to deal with that. Then we will give  people a chance to decide whether it is as bad as you say it was. You  have been on television talking about how this horrible deed was  perpetrated by this dastard.

Let's see if you really believe what you have said. Andrew Johnson  was impeached in 1868 for speaking ill of Congress. So don't say you  can't impeach for this kind of dastardly behavior from this dastard.  Don't say that you can't do it, because we have seen it done. We have  seen it done by people who were closer to the drafting of the  Constitution than we were. So they probably had a better sense of what  impeachment was all about than these so-called scholars who have  decided that impeachment has to have so many lofty goals achieved  before you should bring articles. That is not true.

Whatever the House says impeachment is, that is what it is. It is not  appealable. It is a political question. It is not something that  requires a violation of a statutory law. So if you believe what you  have been propagating when you say that this was such a bad thing that  the President did with these memes, then we will give you an  opportunity to express that here on the floor of the Congress of the  United States of America.

I just believe we have an obligation to do this. I don't think that  we should stand by, we, meaning the people who agree with me. People  who don't agree, they will do what they do. That is okay with me.

I am going to vote my conscience. I ask others to vote theirs. Just  vote your conscience, that is all I ask. If we vote our conscience, I  hope that in the end, maybe not today, but someday--Stevie Wonder has a  song where he says: ``someday at Christmastime.''

Maybe someday in this near future, in my lifetime, this dastard will  be impeached. I guarantee you this, the Record will show that at least  one Member, one Member, stood right here in this House and read  Articles of Impeachment to remove this dastard from office for the  racism that he perpetrates and perpetuates.

For edification purposes, those who tolerate racism perpetuate  racism. If you tolerate it, then you perpetuate it. I will not tolerate  it. Of course, there are those who will always say: Al, you stand  alone.

Mr. Speaker, on some issues, it is better to stand alone than not  stand at all, and I yield back the balance of my time.