Bloody Sunday and Voting Rights Act


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise, and I rise, Mr.  Speaker, to call to the attention of this august body some important  information.

I rise, Mr. Speaker, as the only Member of Congress ever to be  evicted during a joint session of Congress. I have been censured, Mr.  Speaker, but I have not been silenced.

Still I rise today to call to our attention some history associated  with the Voting Rights Act and to bring to our attention how this  Voting Rights Act has had a positive impact on our Nation, on this  Congress, and, I would say, indirectly on the entire planet Earth.

A very important aspect of this Voting Rights Act is section 2.  Section 2 had its genesis, as is the case with the Voting Rights Act of  1965, with Bloody Sunday. Bloody Sunday occurred in March 1965 at the  Edmund Pettus Bridge.

One of our Members, John Lewis, was there. In fact, he was a leader  of this march on Bloody Sunday. As such, he informed us--I talked to  him on more than one occasion about it--how they started the march at a  church, how they approached the Edmund Pettus Bridge, and how, on  approach to the Edmund Pettus Bridge, they could see the bridge itself.

As they got more along the way, they could see that there were  persons waiting for them. Some of these persons were on horseback.  Others were not, but they were armed. These persons had intentions that  were less than honorable.

They knew that the intentionality was less than honorable, yet they  marched on, forward, knowing that this could become an unpleasant  scene, that persons could be harmed.

They had been trained, and they had been lectured by Dr. King, who  taught them how to engage in nonviolent, peaceful protest and how it is  necessary to, when engaging in this protest, not engage in acts of  violence because, in so doing, you can harm the actual protest movement  itself.

They were there, unarmed, marching peacefully from Selma to  Montgomery. After having been told by the officers that they must turn  back and peacefully marched on, they were then beaten--clubs, men on  horseback. They were beaten all the way back to the church where they  started.

The Honorable John Lewis reminded me that he thought he was going to  die on that bridge, beaten all the way back to the church where they  started.

This is what is important about Bloody Sunday, aside from many other  things. There are many things important, but this is important. Bloody  Sunday was a date that had some other circumstances that we don't often  talk about.

I am just going to read something that will help us better understand  why Bloody Sunday and this time in our history is so horrific, and it  gave a President an opportunity to do something that, but for Bloody  Sunday, he could not have done.

This is what I would like to read. Four deaths are directly  attributed to the events of Selma to Montgomery marches: Jimmie Lee  Jackson, who was shot by a State Trooper in February 1965 before the  main march; James Reeb, a White minister, beaten in March 1965 after  Bloody Sunday; Viola Liuzzo, a White civil rights activist, shot and  killed in March 1965; and Jonathan Daniels, another White activist,  shot and killed in August 1965 during a later demonstration related to  the marches.

All of these things happened around Bloody Sunday, but Bloody Sunday  afforded President Lyndon Johnson the opportunity to sign into law the  Voting Rights Act of 1965.

My speculation is but for these horrific events and for the world  having the opportunity to see the horrors of invidious discrimination,  the horrors of segregation, the horrors associated with people who had  hate in their hearts and were determined to prevent people of color  from having the same rights that they enjoyed, meaning the people who  were Anglos enjoyed--this Bloody Sunday is marked by violence, but it  is also a mark in history that gave us the 1965 Voting Rights Act.

The 1965 Voting Rights Act was signed on August 6, 1965, by Lyndon  Johnson. Here is what is important. When it was signed on August 6 in  the 89th Congress, there were 6 Black Members of Congress--6, 5  Latinos, 4 Asians, a total of 15 persons of color that we could  identify as such.

As of January 3, 2025, in this Congress, the 119th Congress, we have  68 Black persons, from 6 to 68; Latinos, from 5 in 1965 to 58; Asians,  from 4 in 1965 to 24--a total of 150.

Mr. Speaker, I submit that a good many of these 150 are currently at  risk. If things continue as they are in Texas, then we are likely to  lose a third or more of these 150 Members of Congress.

Let's talk about Texas for just a moment. In Texas, we have evidence  and, Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record this letter from the  Department of Justice.                                         U.S. Department of Justice,                                           Civil Rights Division,                                       Washington, DC, July 7, 2025.      Hon. Gregory Abbott,      Office of the Governor, Texas Capitol,      Austin, Texas.      Hon. Ken Paxton,      Office of the Attorney General of Texas, Attention: Austin           Kinghorn/Ryan Walters,      Austin, Texas.

Dear Governor Abbott and Attorney General Paxton: This       letter will serve as formal notice by the Department of       Justice to the State of Texas of serious concerns regarding       the legality of four of Texas's congressional districts. As       stated below, Congressional Districts TX-09, TX-18, TX-29 and       TX-33 currently constitute unconstitutional ``coalition       districts'' and we urge the State of Texas to rectify these       race-based considerations from these specific districts.

In Allen v. Milligan, 599 U.S. 1, 45 (2023), Justice       Kavanaugh noted that ``even if Congress in 1982 could       constitutionally authorize race-based redistricting under       Sec. 2 for some period of time, the authority to conduct       race-based redistricting cannot extend indefinitely into the       future.'' 599 U.S. 1, (Kavanaugh, J., concurring). In SFFA v.       Harvard, the Supreme Court reiterated that ``deviation from       the norm of equal treatment'' on account of race ``must be a       temporary matter.'' 600 U.S. 181, 228 (2023). When race is       the predominant factor above other traditional redistricting       considerations including compactness, contiguity, and respect       for political subdivision lines, the State of Texas must       demonstrate a compelling state interest to survive strict       scrutiny.

It is well established that so-called ``coalition       districts'' run afoul the Voting Rights Act and the       Fourteenth Amendment. In Petteway v. Galveston County, No.       23-40582 (5th Cir. 2024), the en banc Fifth Circuit Court of       Appeals made it abundantly clear that ``coalition districts''       are not protected by the Voting Rights Act. This was a       reversal of its previous decision in Campos v. City of       Baytown, 840 F.2d 1240 (5th Cir. 1988). In Petteway, the       Fifth Circuit aligned itself with the Supreme Court's       decision in

Bartlett v. Strickland, 556 U.S. 1 (2009), and determined       that a minority group must be geographically compact enough       to constitute more than 50 percent of the voting population       in a single-member district to be protected under the Voting       Rights Act. See also Thornburg v. Gingles, 478 U.S. 30       (1986). Opportunity and coalition districts are premised on       either the combining of two minority groups or a minority       group with white crossover voting to meet the 50 percent       threshold. Neither meets the first Gingle's precondition.       Thus, the racial gerrymandering of congressional districts is       unconstitutional and must be rectified immediately by state       legislatures.

It is the position of this Department that several Texas       Congressional Districts constitute unconstitutional racial       gerrymanders, under the logic and reasoning of Petteway.       Specifically, the record indicates that TX-09 and TX-18 sort       Houston voters along strict racial lines to create two       coalition seats, while creating TX-29, a majority Hispanic       district. Additionally, TX-33 is another racially-based       coalition district that resulted from a federal court order       years ago, yet the Texas Legislature drew TX-33 on the same       lines in the 2021 redistricting. Therefore, TX-33 remains as       a coalition district.

Although the State's interest when configuring these       districts was to comply with Fifth Circuit precedent prior to       the 2024 Petteway decision, that interest no longer exists.       Post-Petteway, the Congressional Districts at issue are       nothing more than       vestiges of an unconstitutional racially based gerrymandering       past, which must be abandoned, and must now be corrected by       Texas.

Please respond to this letter by July 7, 2025, and advise       me of the State's intention to bring its current       redistricting plans into compliance with the U.S.       Constitution. If the State of Texas fails to rectify the       racial gerrymandering of TX-09, TX-18, TX-29 and TX-33, the       Attorney General reserves the right to seek legal action       against the State, including without limitation under the       14th Amendment.            Respectfully,      Harmeet K. Dhillon,

Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division.      Michael E. Gates,

Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division.

Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, the first is a letter from the  Department of Justice. This letter from the Department of Justice is  addressed to the Governor of the State of Texas, Governor Gregory  Abbott. It is also addressed to Attorney General Ken Paxton. The letter  is dated July 7, 2025.

The reference line is: ``Unconstitutional Race-Based Congressional  Districts Texas-09, Texas-18, Texas-29, and Texas-33.''

It references unconstitutional race-based districts. This letter,  dated July 7, has language indicating that if the State of Texas fails  to rectify the racial gerrymandering of Texas-09, Texas-18, Texas-29,  and Texas-33, the attorney general reserves the right to seek legal  action against the State including, without limitation, under the 14th  Amendment.

There is an accusation made against the State of Texas that the State  of Texas engaged in unconstitutional race-based congressional district  gerrymandering, I suppose, as this letter would indicate.

However, this letter, which has a July 7 date on it, requires the  State of Texas attorney general or the Governor, or both, to respond by  July 7. The letter is dated July 7, and the response is required. It  says here: ``Please respond to this letter by July 7, 2025, and advise  me of the State's intention to bring its current redistricting plan  into compliance with the U.S. Constitution.''

Let's focus on these dates for just a second. The date of July 7, the  date of the letter, and the request for the response is the same date.  It can be said maybe this was a mistake and they meant to insert  another date. It could also be a means by which we tell a person: Call  me. Contact me right away. Contact me today. Contact me ASAP, as soon  as possible.

I believe that there was a conversation that took place. I believe  that that conversation is, in part, why we have the maps that we have  today.

The attorney general for the State of Texas responded to the Justice  Department. I include in the Record the letter from the attorney  general.                                                         Ken Paxton,                                       Attorney General of Texas,                                          Austin, TX, July 11, 2025.      Hon. Harmeet K. Dhillon,      Assistant Attorney General, U.S. Department of Justice, Civil           Rights Division, Washington, DC.

Dear Assistant Attorney General Dhillon: I am in receipt of       your July 7, 2025, letter concerning Texas congressional       districts and welcome a discussion both of the       constitutionality of those districts, and how they can best       serve Texans. I fully support Governor Abbott calling a       special session for the Texas Legislature to conduct       congressional redistricting to take advantage of recent       changes to the legal and political landscape.

As you know, I have stood shoulder to shoulder with       President Trump in fighting for the constitutional rights of       Texans, and of all Americans. My office filed 107 lawsuits       against the unconstitutional policies of the Biden-Harris       Administration, setting the constitutional framework for       opposing the liberal agenda including DEI, open borders,       anti-gun hysteria, and transgender procedures forced on       children. I also filed the landmark Texas v. Pennsylvania       lawsuit and have vigorously defended one of the most       comprehensive election integrity bills anywhere in the       country. Nothing is more important to me or the office I am       proud to lead than upholding the Constitution and combatting       the left-wing assault on American values.

We agree that the time for race-based decisions in       government is over. As Chief Justice Roberts wrote in SFFA v.       Harvard, ``Eliminating racial discrimination means       eliminating all of it.'' 600 U.S. 181, 206 (2023). We also       agree that Justice Kavanaugh has acknowledged temporal       constraints on race-based decisions required under Section 2       of the Voting Rights Act. Allen v. Milligan, 599 U.S. 1, 45       (2023) (Kavanaugh, J., concurring).

I am also keenly aware of the Fifth Circuit's decision in       Petteway v. Galveston County, 111 F.4th 596 (5th Cir. 2024)       (en banc). My office successfully briefed that case's       implications for Texas congressional districts earlier this       year. See First Amended Motion for Partial Judgment, LULAC v.       Abbott, No. 3:21-cv-00259 (W.D. Tex. Feb. 15, 2025), ECF 848;       see also Defendants' Brief Addressing the Effect of Petteway,       id., ECF 815. Indeed, a coalition claim under the Voting       Rights Act brought against Texas Congressional District 18       has been dismissed under Petteway. See Order Granting Motion       to Dismiss, id., ECF 972; see also Response to Order       Requiring Additional Briefing, Id., ECF 917. Around the same       time--which is to say, after the Petteway decision--your       office dismissed all of its claims against Texas election       districts. I agreed with your decision in that regard, and       still do. I applaud your leadership and legal acumen in       recognizing the futility of the claims brought against Texas       under the Biden-Harris administration.

We also agree that, had the Texas legislature felt       compelled under pre-Petteway strictures to create coalition       districts, the basis for such decisions--as you say--``no       longer exists.'' However, my office has just completed a       four-week trial against various plaintiff groups concerning       the constitutionality of Texas's congressional districts, as       well as its State House and State Senate maps. The evidence       at that trial was clear and unequivocal: the Texas       legislature did not pass race-based electoral districts for       any of those three political maps. Texas State Senator Joan       Huffman, who chaired the Senate Redistricting Committee,       testified under oath that she drew Texas districts blind to       race, and sought to maximize Republican political advantage       balanced against traditional redistricting criteria. See,       e.g., Tr. Jun. 7, 2025, PM Session at 33; Tr. Jun 9, 1025, AM       Session at 54. Dr. Sean Trende, renowned redistricting       expert, testified on behalf of Texas that its electoral maps       correlate more closely with partisan advantage than any       racial consideration. See Tr. Jun. 9, 2025, AM Session at 67-      177, id.

Finally, we agree that there have been substantial changes       in the law since Texas drew its congressional districts in       2021. In the four short years since then, the Supreme Court       has issued Milligan, SFFA, and Alexander v. South Carolina       State Conference of the NAACP, 602 U.S. 1 (2024). At the same       time, voting patterns in the state have undergone tremendous       change, including--as you are certainly aware--Texas's       historic support for President Trump in the 2024 Presidential       Election.

The Texas Legislature has led the Nation in rejecting race-      based decision-making in its redistricting process--it has       drawn its current maps in conformance with traditional, non-      racial redistricting criteria to ensure Texas continues to       adopt policies that will truly Make America Great Again. As       permitted by federal law, the congressional maps in 2021 were       drawn on a partisan basis. See Rucho v. Common Cause, 588       U.S. 684 (2019).

For these reasons, I welcome continued dialogue about how       Texas's electoral districts can best serve Texas voters       without regard to outdated and unconstitutional racial       considerations. My office stands ready to support President       Trump, Governor Abbott, and the Texas Legislature in their       redistricting goals and will defend any new maps passed from       challenges by the radical Left.            Respectfully,                                                        Ken Paxton.

Mr. GREEN of Texas. It is addressed to the Justice Department, Civil  Rights Division.

There is a part of this letter that addresses the allegation that  Texas engaged in race-based gerrymandering.

There are two pages. The attorney general has in bold print, the only  bold print on the pages, these words: ``The Texas Legislature did not  pass race-based electoral districts for any of'' some three maps that  are discussed in the letter, which includes the maps that are addressed  by the Department of Justice. By the way, the President made the  request that this be done.

The attorney general for the State of Texas said, no, they don't do  business like that. They don't draw lines to benefit people of color.  They draw their lines to gain some partisan advantage.

Let me read just a little bit more of what it says in this one  paragraph. It says: The evidence at the trial--there was a trial  concerning the maps that the Justice Department is referencing.

``The evidence at that trial was clear and unequivocal. The Texas  Legislature did not pass race-based electoral districts for any of  those three political maps.''

Texas State Senator Joan Huffman, who chaired the Senate Committee on  Redistricting, testified under oath that she drew Texas districts blind  to race.

Remember the Justice Department said Texas needs to redraw these  lines. The exact words are unconstitutional race-based congressional  districts.

The attorney general goes on to say: ``Huffman, who chaired the  Senate  Committee on Redistricting, testified under oath that she drew Texas  districts blind to race.''

I am a part of this trial that is referenced here. I have been  litigating against the State of Texas most of the time that I have been  in Congress. I am protecting the Ninth Congressional District and 18th  Congressional District.

Some things bear repeating. ``Huffman, who chaired the Senate  Committee on Redistricting, testified under oath that she drew Texas  districts blind to race, and sought to maximize Republican political  advantage balanced against traditional redistricting criteria.''

As evidenced in this letter from the attorney general for the State  of Texas to the Justice Department, she is saying she didn't do that.  The reason that they are asking us to draw these lines is just not  there. It doesn't exist. We don't do business like that in Texas.

In fact, this is true because it is the State of Texas that had  White-only primaries. Yes, in the State of Texas, if someone was a  person of color, at one point in the history of the State of Texas,  they could not vote in the primary election simply because of the color  of their skin.

That is a kind of hate for those who may not have analyzed this to  the extent that I have. That is a kind of hate. We call that racism.  Racism is a form of hate where we just don't like people because they  show up with the wrong complexion. That is Texas. By the way, that is  my State.

In Texas, persons could not vote because they were of color. They  could not vote in the primary. The primary would decide the winner of  the election. If someone couldn't vote in the primary, they didn't have  a choice as to who would ultimately be the victor and become the  representative.

This case went all the way to the Supreme Court as it relates to  Texas. Mr. Lonnie Smith, a dentist in Houston, Texas, took this case  involving all-White primaries all the way to the Supreme Court of the  United States of America.

The Supreme Court ruled that Texas could not have all-White  primaries. Texas immediately responded. They agreed with the Supreme  Court. There should not be any more all-White primaries.

Texas concluded that the just thing to do--and I say just, I don't  know that these words were ever used, but I assume that they were  acting with some sense in a belief of justice or injustice. The Texas  governing body decided that since we can't have all-White primaries,  then we will have all-White pre-primaries.

The State of Texas decided to have all-White pre-primaries, and,  again, people of color could not vote in those primaries. He went back  to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court said: Texas, we just told you  that you can't have all-White primaries. So now we tell you that you  can't have all-White pre-primaries.

I call this to your attention, Mr. Speaker, because it is important  to understand that Texas has a shameful, sinful history of thwarting  the efforts of people of color to vote. They have a shameful, sinful  history.

This is why section 2 of the Voting Rights Act was so important,  because it addressed that shameful, sinful history such as to prevent  Texas from doing what the Justice Department alleges Texas did and what  the Texas Attorney General said: No, we didn't do that. We don't draw  lines like that.

Texas proceeded to honor the request of the United States Justice  Department and proceeded to honor the request that it said was  unlawful. In a sense it was an unlawful request because Texas hadn't  gerrymandered to benefit people of color, Texas was gerrymandering to  gain partisan advantage.

Moving on to the drafting of the lines. The Governor of the State of  Texas called a special session to draft lines. It is said to draft  lines, to have this redistricting, this actual gerrymandering, to take  place. Some brave, bold, and courageous members of the Texas Statehouse  understood the rules and knew that if Texas could not get two-thirds of  the body present, then they could not move forward and conduct this  type of business. That would necessitate having 100 persons present.  They left with enough such that Texas could not acquire the 100  persons.

They were bold, brave, and courageous because they have families that  have to be taken care of. They have obligations, and they have bills  that have to be paid. They have to look out for themselves and others.

In so doing, they put a lot at risk. They were fined $500 per day for  each day they were away. There were threats made to remove them from  committees, all sorts of threats, but they weathered all of those  storms, those storms that included threats and fines.

The special session ended without the maps being adopted. However, in  the second special session, the Governor prevailed and the maps were  presented. They were voted on, and they are now the law of the State of  Texas.

These maps are maps that were drawn pursuant to this letter from the  Attorney General by--well, the Attorney General's name is not on the  letter, so let me not confuse anyone. There is another name on the  letter. There is Attorney Dhillon and Attorney Gates.

These two letters, which are in contradiction with each other, the  Attorney General's Office for the Justice Department having indicated  that lines were drawn to benefit people of color and the State of Texas  saying: No, we didn't do that.

Now we have these maps, and we are litigating. We want to prove that  the State of Texas has again violated the Voting Rights Act as it has  done in each decade that the Voting Rights Act has been in effect. It  violated it. We want to prove that this is another violation.

Here is the difficulty: The only way to prove it is enough evidence-- I think this is the evidence we need.

I was there when a person testified at great length that this was  being done for political reasons.

Now, the disadvantage that we would have but for these letters--and  some other evidence that I shall not go into--the disadvantage that we  would have if not but for this would be that we would have to somehow  get that person to confess: No, I didn't really draw it for political  advantage. I did it for racial reasons.

That is not likely to happen. That is the position that we are being  put in by having section 5 of the Voting Rights Act eviscerated and by  having section 2 now being eviscerated. We are losing that which helped  us acquire these 150 persons whom I call to your attention, Mr.  Speaker, who are a part of Congress now, as opposed to the 15 who were  there when the Voting Rights Act was signed into law in 1965.

So we are going to be put in a position where unless we can find some  way to get into a person's head, we are not going to be able to prevail  with this kind of litigation.

This Supreme Court has done this country a disservice with these  latest rulings. This Supreme Court is well aware, these persons are all  aware of the history. They know that this Voting Rights Act of 1965,  while it was signed with the ink--the ink of a pen in the hand of  President Johnson, it was written with the blood of people at the  Edmund Pettus Bridge, the blood of people who died in the days before  and after. It was written in blood. Yet they would overlook that part  of the history, fast-forward to today, and it seems that they are now  about to eliminate section 2 of the Voting Rights Act.

This means that if Texas prevails with these maps and can remove five  people simply because a President says that those five belong to me--I  think he may have used the personal pronoun of me, as opposed to  indicating that these maps belong to the people of these districts, but  he claims them as his own and that they should belong to him, which  means he can then use them to maintain power and dominance over the  Congress and dominance over the Senate and Supreme Court that has a  conservative majority that seems to favor much of what he does.

He believes, and he is moving forward. We are moving forward in  court. One would say that this can be resolved, and as a result of it  being resolved, if you are right, Congressman Green, and you can have  this proof that you have presented, perhaps you  would prevail with some sort of injunctive relief that would keep these  maps from going into effect.

Remember, Mr. Speaker, I am the guy who has been litigating against  the State of Texas most of the time that I have been in Congress. That  is an estimate. It could be a little bit less, but I have been there  fighting for the Ninth and 18th Congressional Districts.

The courts don't generally do this. They don't provide that  injunctive relief. They give deference to the State legislators because  they are charged with the responsibility of drawing the maps, so they  give them sort of the benefit of the doubt as it were, and they go on  to allow us to litigate. We have been litigating against the last maps  for more than 2 years. El Paso, Texas, I have been there to testify. As  such, litigating against it, I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, that if  things go as they have gone, and I pray that they won't, it will be  another 2 years before we get an answer. These lines that have been put  in place will remain, and as a result, other States will try to respond  as best as they can to maintain some sort of equilibrium.

California is responding to what Texas is doing. California did not  initiate; California is responding. This would not be occurring in  California--this effort to redistrict in an equitable way to offset  what is happening in Texas wouldn't be taking place but for what is  happening in Texas.

Those who would contend that California is initiating this, they are  entirely wrong. Texas initiated; California is responding.

Texas is going after five seats. If California can produce five  additional seats on the Democratic side, as opposed to the five that  are produced on the Republican side, then we are still at equilibrium,  where we are now.

That is not good enough for the President. The President has his eye  on Missouri. There is an African-American seat in Missouri that the  President is eyeing, as it were, a President who believes that all of  this is just fair for him to maintain power.

They will go after Missouri. They are likely to try to get something  done in another State, perhaps Indiana, and it goes on.

Rather than compete and redistrict at the end of a decade, this mid- decade redistricting is a way of cheating rather than competing. You  can compete with the lines we have and wait until we get the empirical  evidence necessary to redistrict, or you can cheat now and steal  congressional seats so that you can maintain power, but you are doing  it in a race-based way, which is unconstitutional. Proving it can be  difficult. If you look at the seats that are vulnerable, the seat in  Missouri is a person of color. The seats in Texas identified were held  by people of color. The seat in Indiana, one of them could conceivably  be a person of color.

This is racism. Racism is still alive and well. There is a tragedy  associated with racism as it relates to trying to prove it. One I have  already called to your attention, getting people to confess. If you  commit a racist act, you are not likely to confess that you have done  it. Every now and then miracles happen, but not likely.

Here is the other side of racism. Currently, in this country, when  racism rears its ugly head, if you do as I am doing and you say that is  racism, if you stand up and say it and stand up against racism, you  become persona non grata.

Racism cannot be used against racism. What do I mean by that? Let me  restate that. You cannot use language that identifies racism to  identify it and attack it. You can't because when you do, people know  that you become persona non grata. You can't say: This is racism.

You are left without the defense of identifying racism when you want  to assault racism. We should be able to assault it. We should be able  to attack it. You can't do it because when you do, the status quo  across the media and many persons who can make a difference will reject  what you are doing simply because you are saying this is racist. That  is the case.

It is not like anti-Semitism. There is a big movement to eliminate  anti-Semitism in the country, but when it comes to racism, we want to  manage racism and eliminate anti-Semitism. We need to eliminate both.

Where is the movement, Mr. President, to eliminate the racism in  lending in this country? It does exist. Racism in lending exists in the  United States of America, and it can be proven. It could be proven with  a methodology known as testing. We can test. We can send people out of  different hues to get loans, and we can find, as we have found, that  persons of color who are more qualified are less likely to acquire the  same interest rate, a good interest rate, as I shall say for our  purposes--less likely to get a good interest rate, less likely to get  as much money as a person who is Anglo and less qualified.

In this country, there is this White privilege that nobody can talk  about. A few of us will, but you become persona non grata when you talk  about White privilege.

It exists in lending. It also exists when you are ready to buy a home  or rent a place, rent a home. White privilege exists in this country.  Unfortunately, we are not allowed to address it. People don't want to  hear it. It is okay to talk about anti-Semitism but not about racism.

Let me explain why. When you address anti-Semitism, you are looking  into the window of life. You are looking into someone else's backyard  in another country. When you address racism, you are looking into the  mirror of life and see the reflection of your own deeds. These are the  deeds that we don't want to confront. These are the deeds that cause  people of color to be able to sometimes get loans that are equal to  their contemporaries who are White, but a good deal of the time, they  do not. Those are car loans. They are loans for homes. They are just  loans in general. These are statements that can be proven with  empirical evidence.

I was the chairperson of the Subcommittee on Oversight and  Investigations for the Financial Services Committee, and we have looked  into these things. I can give an assurance that if we do it again  today--let's erase the past. Let's do it again today. Oh, but we can't  do it because this House won't allow that. This House will not allow us  to acquire the empirical evidence. We can't do that testing with this  House.

We go back to where we were in 1965 at the Edmund Pettus Bridge. So  much changed as a result of the lives that were lost and Bloody Sunday.  So much is changing now to revert back to that time when persons of  color had difficulty voting and difficulty winning office because there  is still hate in the hearts of many Americans.

They are not going to confess, but the evidence is there when you do  the testing, when you look into the loans and lending, when you look  into houses being sold, where they are being sold, and to whom they are  being sold. The evidence is there.

We have a duty, a responsibility, and an obligation in this Congress  to talk about these things. More importantly, we have a responsibility  to do something about them. We are not doing very much in this Congress  to fight racism. We have done a lot to fight anti-Semitism.

By the way, I am against anti-Semitism. I am going to fight it. I am  going to stand up against it. I would just like for a good many of  those people who insist on fighting anti-Semitism to be as vocal about  fighting racism. I don't see it. I don't see it.

When we have a judiciary that can't seem to control the President  because of some theory associated with a unitary Presidency, meaning  that the President has the authority to just fire and hire anybody who  he wants--we will find out whether he can do that with the Fed soon-- but when you have that and then you have a Congress who will do nothing  except differ with him until it is time to vote, you then have a  judiciary that can't do anything and a Congress that won't do anything,  then what is left?

Two things are left. The first is something that this President  doesn't like. He doesn't like it. They pretend, oh, wow, there goes  impeachment again, but they are preparing to prevent it by stealing  votes and by stealing congressional seats. That is what is happening in  Texas.

They really don't want this impeachment again. He is already a twice- impeached President and 34 times a felon.  They don't want this. Yet, we are still in the countdown to  impeachment. This is one of the remedies that we have. It is probably  the only one that we have currently that we can impose upon the  Congress for a vote; it is impeachment.

The other remedy is one that belongs to this country and has been  here since, probably, before the arrival of the pilgrims at Plymouth  Rock; the farmers coming to Washington, D.C., with their tractors to  protest what was happening to their land; and Dr. King's famous speech  on The Mall where he gave his ``I Have a Dream'' message, and that is  we the people. That is why I wear this necktie. It is my favorite tie.  It is one of my favorites, I should say.

We the people. We the people protest. Protestation is a part of the  fiber and fabric of this Nation. When we can't prevail with all else  and we have an authoritarian President, then we the people will have  the last word.

I was honored to participate in a march just this week. We the  people, hundreds of people, marched from over at Union Station through  the Capitol. We the people.

Nobody was arrested. The building was not assaulted. We the people  just engaged in peaceful protest. People were very vocal with their  language. Yes, there was profanity that was used by some of the  persons, we the people. That is not unusual at marches, by the way, but  it was peaceful. It was nonviolent.

A couple of names. Jessica was there. She gave an awesome message. We  had others there who gave messages, as well. My point is this as it  relates to the march: That is a part of the reaction that we the people  can have to let the status quo know that we are not happy and that we  are not satisfied with what is happening.

Here is the thing that concerns me about this march and future  marches: When they are peaceful and people protest in a nonviolent way,  you don't get as much coverage as you do if you do something that  breaks the law. Then the entire march is painted as one of being  violent because a few people might do something that is contrary to the  law. A few people, and then the entire march: They were violently  protesting.

Yet, when you do it and you have hundreds of people marching,  protesting peacefully, very little coverage. Very little coverage.

I greatly regret that the status-quo media chooses not to allow the  marches that are peaceful to receive the same coverage as the marches  wherein violence takes place or some breach of the law takes place.

I assure you that the countdown to impeachment is on. We have laid  the foundation previously for impeachment, and we will lay it again. We  will lay it again. The countdown to impeachment continues.

The Edmund Pettus Bridge and Bloody Sunday--I am in Congress today  because of Bloody Sunday. I owe it to the lives who were lost to bring  impeachment against this President. I owe it to them. Those who cannot  say ``impeachment'' and who cannot say ``racism,'' all I ask of you is:  Let me do it for you. I will do it for you. Just let me do it for you,  and you continue to do the good things that you are doing.

We shall overcome, and we shall impeach this President.