Certificate of Congressional Recognition Proclamation Presented to Apostle Dr. Dana Carson in Honor of 40 Years of Ministry


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692044/certificate-of-congressional-recognition-proclamation-presented-to-apostle-dr-dana-carson-in-honor-of-40-years-of-ministry


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise. I include in the  Record the following Proclamation recognizing Dr. Dana Carson for 40  years of service:

Whereas, Apostle Dr. Dana Carson hails from Chicago,       Illinois, and is the Founder & Senior Pastor of the       Reflections of Christ's Kingdom World Outreach International       (R.O.C.K.) church in Houston, Texas, serving ministry for 40       years full-time through Executive and Pastoral leadership       roles; and

Whereas, Apostle Dr. Dana Carson is a testament to       resilience, perseverance, and dedication, overcoming       adversity as a high school dropout by pursuing higher       education and earning three doctoral degrees from Regent       University, Logos University, and Boston University Graduate       School of Theology, along with four master's degrees, as well       as several executive certifications. He is the founder and       chancellor of the Kingdom Bible University and Kingdom       Theological Seminary; and

Whereas, Apostle Dr. Dana Carson is a globally renowned       speaker, scholar, author, and musical artist featured on       broadcast television networks, releasing more than 260 books,       devotional guides, as well as curricula; and through his       music, delivering a powerful message of hope and resilience;       and

Whereas, Apostle Dr. Dana Carson was recognized by       President Barak Obama and was bestowed the Lifetime       Achievement Call to Service Award, was honored as one of the       Top 50 influential Leaders Worldwide in Pentecostalism and he       is an active member of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc.

Now, therefore, be it resolved that, on behalf of the       constituents of the Ninth Congressional District of Texas, I       am proud to salute Apostle Dr. Dana Carson for his 40 years       of dedicated service to enriching the lives of his family,       congregation, our Nation, and the globe. Best wishes on this       momentous occasion.