Government of the People, By the People, and for the People


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692829/government-of-the-people-by-the-people-and-for-the-people


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise.

I rise today in the name of government of the people, by the people,  and for the people. I rise today because our country is nearing a  moment of decision. I rise because we are at the intersection of  democracy and autocracy.

I rise to announce that, at this moment in time, I have filed H. Res.  537. H. Res. 537 is a privileged resolution. H. Res. 537 has been filed  because I believe that the President of the United States has committed  an impeachable act.

H. Res. 537 addresses abuse of Presidential powers by disregarding  the separation of powers, devolving American democracy into an  authoritarian--an authoritarian, an authoritarian--government, usurping  congressional power to declare war.

Mr. Speaker, I take no delight in what I am doing. I do this because  I love my country. I do this because I understand that the Constitution  is going to be meaningful or it will be meaningless. I do it because I  understand that the President of the United States of America has a  duty to consult Congress before taking this country to war. I do it  because no one person should have the power to take over 300 million  people to war without consulting with the Congress of the United States  of America.

I do this because, if I do not, this authoritarian President that we  currently have will continue to assume power. He has already instigated  an assault on the citadel of democracy, the Capitol of the United  States of America. He went so far as to pardon the persons who were  actually involved in the assault. He has denied persons due process of  the law.

I believe that, if we do not take immediate action, this  authoritarian President will devolve the country into authoritarianism.  I believe he is a would-be dictator who would become a dictator.

I today announce that, later today, I will bring these Articles of  Impeachment to the floor, and I will call for a vote. I believe that  the hour of decision is upon us, and we all have to decide: Are we  going to go down and choose the path of democracy, or will we allow  ourselves to choose the low road of autocracy?

I believe that this country has come too far to allow a single person  to declare war without conferring with the Congress of the United  States of America.

This is why I stand. This is what I will do, and I do it in the name  of my country that I love dearly.