Impact of President on Peace Process


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688271/impact-of-president-on-peace-process


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise.

I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to first announce two pieces of  legislation. Thereafter, I will go into my message, which will be the  impact of President Trump's engagement in the peace process between  Israel and the Palestinians.

First, let's look at the two resolutions. The first resolution is our  Black History Month resolution.

I am proud to say that this resolution will be filed tomorrow, and  this is the original Black History Month resolution for 2025. We have  many persons who have signed up to cosponsor, but it is still not too  late for additional persons to sign up.

The theme is African Americans and labor. It deals with African  Americans and labor in America. It will trace the history of labor from  enslavement through current times.

The second resolution is one that I am very proud to present. This is  a resolution for slavery remembrance month. As you know, August 1619  was the month and year that enslaved persons from Africa were  introduced into the Colonies. Since that time, we have had an adverse  impact on African Americans in the United States of America.

We need to retrace some of the history of what actually happened, but  not just on one day. We have a slavery remembrance day that we  proposed. Now, we are proposing a slavery remembrance month. There is  still time to sign on to this resolution, as well.

We will file it tomorrow, so if Members desire to be original  cosponsors of either of these two, they have until the close of  business tomorrow or until we have our last opportunity to file  tomorrow any type of legislation. I suggest by noon tomorrow for  Members who want to file.

Now, let me get to my message: the impact of the President on the  peace process. I say again: the impact of the President on the peace  process.

The President, as it relates to this process, is not an honest  broker. He is not an honest broker because an honest broker has to be  impartial. The President has made it perspicuously clear that he is not  impartial.

He has already sided with Israel, and the President has every right  to do that, to side with one side as opposed to another, but let's be  clear about the role that he is playing. He is not playing the role of  an honest broker.

The President is not playing the role of a negotiator because the  President does not seek to get input from the Palestinians. The  President will get input from one side, that would be the Israelis, and  he will make his decisions with the Israelis.

It appears that there will be an all-or-nothing offer made. The  President has gone so far as to say that certain things must be done,  or certain conditions will manifest themselves.

The President doesn't want peace. It appears to me that the President  wants to stop the killing, and there is a difference between stopping  the killing and peace.

Peace requires more than the absence of tension, the absence of  violence, the absence of killing. Peace requires justice. It requires  justice. Stopping killing is not going to end the process because you  won't have justice for all parties involved, and there must be justice  for all parties involved if we are to have genuine peace between  Palestinians and Israelis.

The President appears to currently be engaging in a process of ethnic  cleansing. This is where his thoughts are. He seems to believe that we  can take Gaza from the Palestinians. He seems to believe that the  Gazans can be relocated. Just place them someplace else. Give them nice  homes in some other place. Let us, meaning the United States or Israel,  have Gaza.

Mr. Speaker, that won't happen because the Palestinians have made it  very clear that they don't intend to leave their homeland, but there is  more to it than simply replacing them, putting them someplace else. We  have to think about what the President is saying.

The President is making it clear that we are an existential threat to  the creation of a Palestinian state because if you remove the  Palestinians from the land that was once Palestine, they won't have a  Palestinian state there, then we, indeed, are an existential threat to  Palestine. In fact, if the language that the President is using as it  relates to the Palestinians, if it were used as it relates to the  Israelis, the President would have some serious problems.

You cannot say with any degree of credibility that we ought to remove  the Israelis from Israel, which is now in land that was once labeled  ``Palestine.'' You can't say that. If you say ``from the river to the  sea,'' you are saying that you are proclaiming an existential threat to  exist as it relates to the State of Israel, the mere statement, whereas  Israel's Knesset has already, by way of resolution, indicated that  there will not be a Palestinian state in the land of what we now call  Gaza, in the land of what we now call the West Bank, that there won't  be a Palestinian state. If there is not going to be a Palestinian  state, then Israel is declaring that it is an existential threat to the  creation of a Palestinian state.

The President doesn't want a Palestinian state. He is with the  Israelis. The President wants Gaza. He wants the West Bank to be  controlled and possibly become a part of Israel. This is not the way to  achieve justice.

Remember, you cannot have peace without having justice. You have  heard  the phrase, ``No justice, no peace.'' Well, there has to be justice for  us to have peace, and the President is willing to sacrifice the  Palestinians. He seems to be willing to sacrifice them because he has  indicated as much, that if a certain thing doesn't happen, if hostages  aren't returned by a certain time that he has chosen, that all hell  will break loose.

Well, that seems to indicate that he is willing to see an  infiltration unlike we have not seen so far, something more than we  have seen so far because, quite frankly, Gaza has been decimated. The  roads have been destroyed. The bridges have been destroyed. The schools  have been destroyed. The hospitals have been destroyed. The homes have  been destroyed. People have been killed. Until we decide that we want  peace, we are not going to have the kind of place that people should  have as a homeland for Palestinians.

There has to be peace. To have peace, there must be justice. To have  justice, we have to at least decide that there are certain things that  we are willing to do. Justice is going to require equal respect for the  lives of all babies--equal respect for the lives of all babies.

I will tell you that I, just as early as this morning, had tears well  in my eyes when there was a story about the Israeli babies who were  returned after they had been held hostage by Hamas.

Hamas did a dastardly thing in taking babies as hostage. Israel has  done nothing that would warrant Hamas to take babies as hostages. Then,  for those babies to be returned in caskets, it is heartbreaking.

Those parents had to suffer immeasurable heartache as a result of  what happened to their children. Those babies were young babies,  infants.

Hamas is not--is not--an organization that seeks peace. If you are  going to do these kinds of things, you are not seeking peace because  what you did was not just. It was an injustice to take those babies.

It was an injustice to keep those babies, and now you are returning  them lifeless to their parents, and they have to suffer for the rest of  their lives knowing what happened to their babies.

You can't stop there. All babies have to be treated equally. The  lives of all babies have to be treated equally. You cannot say that it  is shameful and sinful for Hamas to do what they did to those Israeli  babies and not condemn what Israel has done to the Palestinian babies.

Babies have been bombed; body parts scattered all over. One parent  just had the baby born and was about to register the baby. The parents  come back, and the baby is no longer alive. All babies have to be  treated equally. Their lives have to be respected in the same way,  regardless as to where they are, where they are from, and what their  ethnicity is. We cannot continue to believe that some babies have lives  that are more valuable than others.

Nothing Israel has done merits what Hamas did to the babies that they  took hostage or other babies that may have been killed as well. Nothing  that the Palestinians have done merits the killing of--nothing that the  Israelis have done merits the killing of Palestinian babies to the  extent that they have been killed.

Palestinian babies, Palestinians cannot have done anything that would  merit Israelis killing their babies to the same extent that they have.  Israelis have to understand that Palestinian babies have lives that  have to be respected to the same extent as they want Israeli babies'  lives to be respected. By the same token, Palestinians have to respect  Israeli babies' lives to the same extent that they want Palestinian  lives to be respected. All babies have to be respected equally. All  babies.

Today, I want to say to the Israelis and the Palestinians: There will  be no peace until you respect the babies equally. But you have got to  do more than this and we have to do more because we have to rebuild  Palestine.

I say ``we.'' I believe the United States has to make a contribution,  just as we contributed to the rebuilding of Japan after we dropped  bombs on Japan, just as we have contributed to the rebuilding of other  places when we have been involved in the destruction.

We helped to destroy Palestine. Yes, I know that what Hamas did was  dastardly. I understand that. It shouldn't have been done, but that did  not give Israel the right to kill babies and innocent people to the  extent that Israel has killed these babies and innocent people. We have  to respect their lives.

Now we have to respect their property. There has to be a home for  Palestinians, and that home has to have some help from the United  States because we sent our weaponry over there. We have to pay for  weapons that were used to bomb the Palestinians. The bombs, many of  them, were actually munitions that came from us.

We have a duty to respect their lives and their property, and we have  a duty to help to rebuild. This is something that we can't push off on  others, and we can't just decide, Mr. President, that the Palestinians  should not have a state and that we can just simply take their land.  This land belongs to them. It was theirs in 1948.

The majority of the people in Palestine in 1948 were not people who  were there to have a State of Israel. People came into the place called  Palestine and helped to build and construct the State of Israel. I have  said that a two-state solution is a solution, but you can't have a two- state solution without respecting the babies that are Palestinian and  the land that was once Palestine.

We have got to give Palestinians a homeland, more specifically a  state. Palestinians have the right to live there with sovereignty, not  to be told what to do by others, not to have the flow of their  electricity controlled by others, not to have others determine whether  they can have ingress and egress. They have got to have a state.

That means there has to be some negotiation. It can't just be  dictation. The President wants to dictate what the policies will be and  expect everybody to live happily thereafter. If we want true peace,  then, Mr. President, you have got to cease to be a dictator and become  a negotiator. You have to talk to the Palestinians and get their  opinions about what they want, and you have got to decide that you  cannot side with one side and conclude that that is going to give you  the necessary strength to bring peace about.

You may have calm, but you won't have peace, and you won't have the  kind of peace that will be lasting if you just decide you are going to  stop the killing. Stopping killing does not bring about peace. It just  brings about an absence of a certain amount of tension.

Dr. King reminded us that if you want peace, you have to have more  than the absence of tension. You have got to have the presence of  justice. The presence of justice must be accorded not only to the  Israelis, they deserve justice. But to the Palestinians, they also  deserve justice. Justice for both sides, peace for both sides. One  country, one place; Palestinians on one side of that place, the  Israelis on the other side. Two people, two homes, two sovereignties  living side by side in peace.

Finally, on this whole question, Dr. King also reminded us that we  have to learn to live together as brothers--this is how he put it--or  we will perish together as fools. Living together as brothers--and I  would add and sisters--is an imperative. We no longer have, as Dr. King  put it, a choice between violence or nonviolence. He said: We have a  choice between nonviolence or nonexistence, and we are marching toward  nonexistence.

As we decide who is going to have certain pieces of land and how land  is going to be divided, many countries who are viewing this are  concluding that to protect themselves, they are going to have to have  the ultimate weapon. Just as North Korea made that decision, others are  making that decision. I don't support any of those decisions. I don't  support any nuclear weapons. I would like to see the absence of nuclear  weapons across the globe, but I also understand that they exist. I  understand that others are going to want them to protect themselves  from us, from the United States, from Israel. They are going to want  them to protect themselves from other countries that have them.

Friends, it is no longer the choice between nonviolence or violence.  The choice is going to be between nonviolence or nonexistence, and we  have to learn to live together as brothers and sisters or we will  perish together  as fools. Those were the words of Dr. Martin Luther King.

I stand for peace, peace between Israelis and Palestinians. I stand  for loving all babies the same. The lives of all babies should be  treated equally. Hamas shouldn't hide behind babies, but that doesn't  give you the right to just kill babies indiscriminately. Thousands of  babies have been killed. You can't do that. That is antithetical to  having a just society where peace presides.

I present to you my belief that if we are to have true peace, there  has to be justice; and if there is to be justice, all babies have to be  treated equally. All babies have to be respected equally. All babies'  lives are equally as important. It doesn't matter where they are or who  they are.