Incivility in Chamber


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688663/incivility-in-chamber


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise.

And still I rise, a proud, liberated Democrat, unbought, unbossed,  and unafraid.

I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to call to the attention of the House,  this place that I revere and, notwithstanding recent events, that I  have great respect for.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in response to a censure, a censure that  took place as it relates to my behavior. I have been told by some that  they did not have an opportunity to hear the actual resolution as it  was read. I have here H. Res. 189, the censure resolution as it relates  to my behavior.

I believe this resolution should be read. I am not in any way upset  with the Speaker. I want people to know that the Speaker did what he  was supposed to do. He did what he was supposed to do when we had the  joint session of Congress.

When I interrupted, the Speaker called it to my attention. He did it  on multiple occasions. I have no reason in my heart to be upset with  the Speaker.

Later, persons came over and escorted me out. I appreciate them. They  were very kind to me, the officers, very kind. They said kind words to  me.

As a result of my behavior, I have been censured.

I am going to read the resolution and give some commentary. It reads,  ``H. Res. 189. In the House of Representatives, Mr. Newhouse submitted  the following resolution, which was referred to the Committee on''--and  the copy that I have does not have a committee. I am not sure it was  referred to a committee. It may have come straight to the floor.  Regardless as to how it arrived, it did, and I am not contesting the  procedure.

The resolution reads: ``Censuring Representative Al Green of Texas.

``Whereas, on March 4, 2025, during the joint session of Congress  convened pursuant to House Concurrent Resolution 11, the President of  the United States, speaking at the invitation of the House and Senate,  had his remarks interrupted by the Representative from Texas, Mr.  Green;

``Whereas, the conduct of the Representative from Texas disrupted the  proceedings of the joint address and was a breach of proper conduct;  and

``Whereas, after numerous disruptions, the Representative from Texas  had to be removed from the chamber by the Sergeant at Arms:

``Now, therefore, be it resolved, that--

``One, Representative Al Green be censured;

``Two, Representative Al Green forthwith present himself in the well  of the House of Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; and

``Three, Representative Al Green be censured with the public reading  of this resolution by the Speaker.''

That concludes the resolution.

Some things bear repeating: I respect the Speaker. I have no ill  feelings toward the Speaker, none toward the persons who escorted me  away from the floor because I did disrupt. I did so because the  President indicated that he had a mandate--and I wanted him to know  that he didn't have a mandate--to cut Medicaid.

I did this because Medicaid is the only insurance many people have in  this country. I am blessed. As I stand here now, there is a physician  waiting. If something should happen, I will be taken to that physician.  I have the best healthcare in the world.

There are other people who have less than I. I would have them have  what I have, but I surely would not stand by and see them lose what  little they do have.

Medicaid is for people who don't have the kind of healthcare that 435  Members of Congress and 100 Members of the Senate have, but they do  have some healthcare.

It has been approved by legislation that the Energy and Commerce  Committee would cut $880 billion from their budget. The overwhelming  majority of that budget has to do with healthcare. I see no way for  this cut to take place without cutting into Medicaid.

I am going to fight the cutting of Medicaid. I hope that this  comment, this message that I am giving today, will deter them and cause  them to go a different way. Then, they can say: ``We were never going  to do it. Al Green just had this false notion.'' Well, let me have it.  Don't cut Medicaid. It is all they have.

This is the richest country in the world. Mr. Musk has doctors. He  will get the best healthcare. Let him understand that he should be on  my side. He should be on the side of the people who need this  healthcare. He has the ear of the President.

Mr. Musk, speak to him. He listens to you. But for the grace of God,  dear brother, you could be on Medicaid. You just have been blessed.  Don't assume that it was your intellect that has caused you all of  these great blessings that you have received. You have just been  blessed beyond measure. Speak to the President and tell him that  Medicaid ought not be cut.

But I continue. I interrupted.

I was set to be in need of sanctions. I came to the floor today, and  while the Speaker was reading, I recalled what happened in the sixties.  I recalled that when we were faced with adverse circumstances, we would  sing a song that would inspire and encourage us to move forward with  alacrity.

The words were:

We shall overcome,

We shall overcome,

We shall overcome some day.

Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe we shall overcome some       day.

That was an act of incivility.

Why, Al Green, would you come to the well before your colleagues and  the world and commit an act of incivility?

Here is why: It is because when the President of the United States  right there at that podium addressed the Members of Congress, Democrats  seated on this side, seated, many of them saying nothing, the President  of the United States looked upon them, pointed toward them and said:  Lunatics. The President of the United States at a joint session of  Congress called Members of Congress lunatics.

That was an act of incivility.

There comes a time, Mr. Speaker, when you cannot allow the  President's incivility to take advantage of our civility, and that is  what is happening in this country. His incivility is overwhelming our  civility. We cannot allow this. That act of incivility was in direct  response to the President's incivility.

Mr. President, you, sir, were wrong when you pointed to the Members  of Congress and called them lunatics, Democrats, I might add, you  called them lunatics.

The President hasn't been sanctioned. The President hasn't been  reprimanded. There has been no censure of the President. The President  is above the law. The Supreme Court has said as much. He can do things  that no other can do. He is above the law as it relates to certain  things, but not as it relates to all things, not all. He is still  subject to the norms of society, the decorum that you expect from me,  you have to respect and expect from the President.

Why would we allow him to use his incivility and expect me to  continue to engage in civility as it relates to his incivility?

Mr. President, there are some of us who are going to stand against  your incivility. We have reached a point in our history where we have  to hearken back to that which got us to this point in our history.

I remember the sixties. I remember Dr. King. I remember the movement.  I remember what it took to get me in this House. I am not here because  I am so smart. I am not here because of brilliancy or good looks. I am  here because people made great sacrifices. It was incivility, and it  was disruption, but they were prepared to suffer the consequences.

We are going to have to resort to the same tactics that we used in  the sixties, but we did it for a worthy and noble cause. Calling the  people of Congress lunatics was not noble, Mr. President. It was an  ignoble act of incivility.

I remember how we marched and how we protested, and I am prepared to  do it again. If you treat me like you treated me in the sixties, I am  going to respond the way I responded in the sixties.

It is time for us to use the same level of incivility that was used  in the sixties for a noble cause: to save Medicaid, to protect  Medicare, and to prevent the demise of Social Security. It is time for  us to take that stand. Incivility emanating from the highest office in  the land cannot be tolerated and has to be negated.

I did it, and I have said to people that while I respect others and  while I absolutely was cooperative when they led me away from the  floor, but if circumstances permitted, given what I know, and I have to  be candid, I would do it again. I would do it because I care about  these people on Medicaid.

For edification purposes, the State of Texas was accorded $100  billion--100 billion Medicaid dollars--100 billion Medicaid dollars  were sent to the State of Texas to help poor people.

What did the State of Texas do?

The State of Texas rejected $100 billion for poor people on Medicaid,  100 billion, not million, 100 billion. The State of Texas does not have  the goodwill necessary to manage Medicaid dollars. If we block grant  this money and send it to Texas, then those who are in need of it will  get less of it. We have to stand up for them. They are among the least  in our society. Unfortunately, we have to stand up for them.

I am standing up for those people. I will continue to stand, and I  will continue to tell the world that this incivility has to be dealt  with. We have to deal with the President's incivility.

The name-calling never ceases. Maxine Waters he has assaulted  verbally and Ms. Wilson of Florida. The list goes on and on and on. As  Congresswoman Waters is known to say: on and on and on.

We sit and we watch with civility as he employs incivility. Yes, I  have said earlier, and I am retreating to the point, that he has been  given a certain amount of immunity. He has not been given absolute  immunity, but he seems to have an inordinate amount of influence with  his party. It is inordinate. I see people doing things that I never  thought I would see them do. I have seen people who are conservative  and that I have great respect for doing things that I never thought I  would see them do.

I am not calling names. I am just saying to my friends that the  President has an inordinate amount of influence. He has an inordinate,  unusual, and incomprehensible amount of influence.

The courts have given him a certain amount of immunity. His party has  given him carte blanche to say anything and to come before the joint  session of Congress and use the word ``lunatics'' as he refers to  Democrats. The only thing left in ordinary times would be the courts.

The court orders ought to be obeyed. I don't always like them, but I  remember what John Lewis explained to me about peaceful protests:  Protest, the court orders you to do certain things, you don't have to  agree with it, but you do it. You be willing to suffer  the consequences.

The courts are right now in the midst of, as best as they can, trying  to give us the laws necessary to prevent certain things from happening.  Mass layoffs have to be taken to court. There have been mass layoffs  with no due process and no thought of what is happening in the lives of  these people. You just take a pen and with the stroke of a pen they are  off. There is no concern about children in school, there is no concern  about loved ones who may be ill, whom they are taking care of, being  the chief breadwinner for the family. There is no concern.

You have got billions, Mr. Musk.

Why should you care about the concerns of people who have much less  and who are working every day to eke out a living?

You have billions. You shouldn't worry about them. Worry about making  more money. Go to the Moon.

They don't have that luxury. I am going to stand for them and mass  layoffs without any consideration.

I just believe that this level of behavior if it were conducted,  committed, and engaged in by one Barack Hussein Obama when he was  President, if he behaved in this fashion, then he would have been  impeached. He would have been impeached. I will go to my grave with  this belief. We wouldn't allow these mass layoffs. We wouldn't allow  these cuts to veterans, and we wouldn't allow Medicaid, Medicare, and  Social Security to be on the chopping block.

He would have been impeached.

To be very honest, I would have voted for the impeachment because I  don't think that we should allow a President to circumvent what we know  to be the requirements associated with the legislative process and with  due process which should be accorded people who are being fired as it  were.

When you do these things, the courts are acting, and the courts  should act. However, there is a point, Mr. President, if your  incivility allows you to disobey court orders given that your party has  given you carte blanche and given that you believe you have absolute  immunity by virtue of what the Supreme Court has accorded you--and you  don't have absolute but I think you believe it--when you cross that  line, when you cross that line and you, Mr. President, decide you will  no longer honor orders from the judiciary, when you decide that Marbury  v. Madison means nothing, when you decide that you are the supreme law  of the land, then on that day we will have a dictatorship.

We are close because you are continually inching right up to the  line, you are looking over to the other side, and at some point,  regrettably, you may cross over.

Mr. President, I beg that you not do so. I beg that you would not do  so and that you would honor the third branch of government designed to  settle disputes among us, not always in a favorable way to some,  obviously, but that is what it is there for.

I beg you, Mr. President, that you would not dishonor the judiciary  in this country.

Here is what I know: I know that you have the ability to say to a  judge: You have issued your court order, now let me see you enforce it.  That is my Justice Department--not Al Green's, the President's--that is  my Justice Department. The head of my Justice Department has pledged  fealty to me--not Al Green, the President--that is my Justice  Department. Let me see you get my Justice Department to enforce your  order, Mr. Judge.

More specifically, Mr. John Roberts, get my Justice Department to  enforce your order. Let me see you get my marshals to enforce your  order.

This President, whether wittingly or unwittingly, has put himself in  a position such that the Justice Department has pledged fealty to him.

Generals in the military: You don't get these positions now unless  you have pledged fealty to him.

We ought to be ashamed of ourselves to allow such a thing to have  happened. Yes, generals in the military, the Justice Department, the  courts, many of them are bending knees and genuflecting.

Somehow, you believe that you are showing respect, I suppose, or  maybe you are just currying favor.

Be that as it may, the Justice Department, generals in the military,  and many of the courts are giving a genuflect. Wittingly or  unwittingly, he is setting himself up such that he is in a position and  such that, at the end of his fourth year, he might attempt to do what  he tried to do and failed to do at the end of his last term.

He tried his best to prevent the transition of power. He did all that  he could. He encouraged persons to come over to the Capitol. People  came, and they literally broke into the Capitol. I was here. They came,  and they marched through the Capitol.

Mr. Speaker, for doing it, the President has been given them the  ultimate reward. You, you, and you--yes, you, too--all of you, you are  pardoned. You are given some sort of amnesty. You are okay.

This is what the President has done. Wittingly or unwittingly, he is  now in a position to make that same effort. Only this time, the Justice  Department is with him, not with the Constitution. Generals in the  military are with him, not with their oath that they have taken.

The President, wittingly or unwittingly, has put himself in a  position such that if he chooses to stay on beyond his term of office  and if he chooses to do what a Member of Congress has suggested that  might be done by law, which is to give him a third term--I hold no  animus toward the Member of Congress who has filed the legislation; I  have no animus to you, dear brother--but what we have done is witnessed  a President who, wittingly or unwittingly, has put himself in a  position such that he will have the power to enforce the inanity of not  allowing a peaceful transfer of power.

He literally is putting himself in that position. Wittingly or  unwittingly, he is.

As a result of his doing this, we have to not allow his incivility  and his requirement of fealty to prevent us from taking the necessary  actions to protect liberty and justice for all and to protect  government of the people, by the people, and for the people. To protect  what this country has in its great and noble ideals, we have to do what  is necessary.

I believe that we have to engage in a level of positive, righteous  incivility--positive, righteous incivility, the same kind of incivility  that Dr. King engaged in and that John Lewis engaged in. This  incivility would only be a counterbalance to the President's  incivility.

I am not saying that we get into the name-calling and stoop to the  level that he does. I am saying that, when there are moments for us to  have righteous incivility, we should.

Now, I am back to where I started. I stood there in the well of the  House, other Members with me. I never suggested to anybody that you do  a certain thing. We did sing ``We Shall Overcome.''

It was an act of incivility, but I want people to know that it was in  direct response to the President's incivility at the joint session of  Congress. He has not been reprimanded. He has not been censured. He  won't be reprimanded. He won't be censured.

However, there is one, as the President uses it, in his parlance, one  card. There is one card that we have. You told the President of  Ukraine: ``You don't have the cards.'' Well, Mr. President, we have the  cards.

There are 435 of us with the cards. The card, Mr. President, you know  well because, on two occasions, these cards have been utilized to check  you. You don't always get convicted when you are indicted, but you do  get indicted.

If you continue with this line of behavior, you may not just simply  be indicted. That means impeached. You may be more than impeached.  There may be a Senate that has the will to live up to the ideals in the  Constitution. When that Senate does so, you will no longer be  President.

There are 435 cards. Mr. President, I have one of those cards. I have  one of them. You are a Goliath. You are Goliath. You now have control  of the Justice Department. You have the generals pledging fealty. You  are a Goliath, Mr. President, but there are 435 Davids--435 Davids--435  with the power accorded to us by way of the rules of this House to  bring Articles of Impeachment.

You may not be impeached the first time, but there is always a  second, and there is always a third.

In the end, if you, Mr. President, continue with this behavior, you  will be impeached, and I believe there will be the will in the Senate  to convict.

I am not threatening anyone. I am talking about the rules that have  been accorded to this House, which I happen to be a Member of and proud  to be a Member of, and accorded to the Senate.

You are a Goliath, but, Mr. President, there are Davids among us.  Your incivility can no longer be tolerated. It has to be met with  righteous indignation and righteous incivility.