Issues of the Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700535/issues-of-the-day


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise. And still I rise.  I rise today, Mr. Speaker, a liberated, unbought, unbossed, unafraid  Democrat. I rise, Mr. Speaker, after having been censured but not  silenced. Censured, but not silenced.

Yes, I am that person who chooses to take on some of the great social  injustices of our time. There are times when taking on these injustices  necessitates that we take action right here in this Chamber. I am proud  of the things that I have done to call to the attention not only of the  Congress, not only of this country, but to the attention of the world  some of the injustices taking place in my country. Quite frankly, it is  the country that I love because of what it stands for in its great  documents, liberty and justice for all, as told in the Pledge of  Allegiance.

Yes, I sometimes have to take difficult positions. When I do, I  sometimes have to face difficult consequences, but I do so, and still I  rise, Mr. Speaker. And still I rise.

Today, Mr. Speaker, I rise to address corruption within the Trump  administration, corruption within the Trump family, corruption within  Trump politics. I want to show how this corruption is encroaching upon  something that is very sacred in this institution.

Let me start now, Mr. Speaker, with corruption within the Trump  family. Mr. Speaker, I had the preeminent privilege of being a part of  a hearing today in Financial Services. This hearing had to do with  fraud, fraud being perpetrated.

Well, I want to talk about the corruption being perpetrated. I spoke  about this at the hearing today, and I shall revisit some of these  things that I called to the attention of the public at the hearing  today.

The first is a news article. It is styled ``Trump meme coin down 96  percent as bitcoin and meme coins slide.'' This is the $TRUMP memecoin.  This article is dated February 9, 2026, and I shall read excerpts.

It reads in part this: ``Last February, the coin's market  capitalization stood at $3.5 billion''--we are talking about now the  $TRUMP memecoin, $3.5 billion--``already well below its $14.5 billion  peak on the eve of his second inauguration.''

When the Trump administration took on the task of being President  again--which I regret occurred, to be quite candid with you, but when  it did, it also, at the same time, by and through Trump the person,  introduced a memecoin. That memecoin stood capitalized at $3.5 billion.

Well, this is $14.5 billion at its peak. It was $3.5 billion later.  At its peak, it was $14.5. ``Today, it has fallen to $1.78 billion.''  To repeat, so as to allow people to completely understand, initially it  was capitalized at $3.5 billion. It then made an upward move to $14.5  billion. This was at its peak. Today, this is following February 9, it  fell to $1.78 billion.

Why is this important? Why is it important for me to call this  article to your attention? It is because there is something called pump  and dump, pump and dump. This is where clever people will create  something such as a memecoin, and they will instantly start to put  money into it, but they use famous people.

In using these famous people, this name identification in and of  itself brings credibility to the product that they are placing in the  market. That credibility causes the product to move rapidly in its  value. It goes up. As it goes up, the people who are pumping it, they  then find reason at some point to take out their profits. They take out  their profits.

They pump it, and then they dump it, meaning they get rid of the  product. They no longer want it. When they dump it at its zenith, they  take out great profits. They make not only millions, but billions. They  remove the profits.

Let me read on: The indication is there was ``a large-scale pump-and- dump scheme involving at least 15 cryptocurrencies, including  $MELANIA.''

That is the currency of the President's wife, whom I have great  respect for, by the way. I really do. I have met her and found her to  be a very pleasant lady, but I have observed her from afar, and I have  great respect for her.

``The complaint alleged that First Lady Melania Trump was used as a  `window dressing for a crime engineered by''' other persons. But the  point is this: It was engineered by other persons, but the Trump family  made large sums of money as a result.

In fact, I have a second article that is styled ``Melania Trump's  meme coin architects accused of pump-and-dump fraud in lawsuit.'' This  one is dated October 23, 2025, and it is from The Guardian.

I would beg that people would peruse these at their leisure so that  they might acquire additional intelligence about the articles that I am  calling to their attention.

This one says: ``The $MELANIA coins were released for just a few  cents each on 19 January, the day before Donald Trump was inaugurated  as U.S. President.'' The day before he becomes President, the coin is  released.

Then within hours, this coin price soared to $13.73. It went from a  value of a few cents, just a few cents to $13.73. However, it then  collapsed almost as quickly and is now only worth about 10 cents. It  went from pennies to $13.73, collapsed to less than 10 cents--about 10  cents. That is less than 1 percent of its peak price.

This coin traded at a peak of $45.47 and now goes for $5.79.

The article also indicates that: ``The Trump family has pocketed more  than $1 billion in pretax profits from several cryptocurrency-related  products and companies over the past 12 months.'' In 12 months, they  pocketed more than $1 billion in pretax profits.

Pumping and dumping allowing consumers to be left holding the bag.  Many people who assume that because the President's name is associated  with it or a family member of the President is associated with it, they  assume that it is credible and then they do incredible things. They  just buy into it because they assume that the name itself gives it the  credibility that will cause them to make large sums of money.

Well, some people do make large sums of money. These are the people  that introduce these coins. These are the people that pump them up, and  these are the people who take their profits right off the top at the  zenith of the market for the coin.

This kind of scam, this kind of scheme is something that we should  not tolerate emanating from the highest office in the land. The  President of the United States is in the business of performing what I  call a hustle, a hustle of the country itself, of the market itself.

The President uses all sorts of scams to make money based upon the  fact that he is the President of the United States and his name should  bring some sort of credibility to products that other people will buy  into and lose money.

I regret that this happens, and the best way for us to stop it right  now immediately is for people to understand that the President's name  is not worth what it appears to be worth. People should not buy into  these scams simply because the President associates his name with it.

At some point, the President and his family members will take their  money out and when that happens, the dumping starts. When the dumping  starts, those consumers who bought in in good faith end up losing  money.

Pump and dump: raise the price, sell, dump, and leave others holding  the bag and they take the profits. This kind of corruption is not  limited to just the family of the President.

Just today, the Secretary of Homeland Security, Secretary Noem, has  been relieved of duty. There is a good reason why. Just today I spoke  about this at the financial services hearing when we talked about this  corruption.

Here is an article titled: ``Firm Tied to Kristi Noem Secretly Got  Money From $220 Million DHS Ad Contracts.'' This is indicating that the  Secretary had these contracts within the purview of her jurisdiction  and that there were ad companies, companies that were advertising on  behalf of the Federal Government. These ad companies received some $220  million in DHS contracts. Now, well, maybe that is not all bad. Ad  companies make money. Ad companies should make money when they perform  a service, a worthy service, but there is something about this contract  and some of these that are a little bit different.

By the way, this article is dated November 14, 2025. ProPublica is  the publisher, and I will read just a bit more about this before I go  on.

Let's read: ``Advertising firms make money by taking an often-hefty  commission. Federal records show the contracts have gone to two  firms.'' We are talking about the Secretary now and her contracts that  were let under the jurisdiction of her office on her watch.

``The contracts have gone to two firms. One is a Republican ad  company in Louisiana called People Who Think, which has been awarded  $77 million.'' That is not the bad news, ``But the majority of the  money, $143 million''--I repeat for emphasis--``$143 million has gone  to a mysterious LLC in Delaware. The company was created just days  before it was awarded the deal.'' Days before receiving a $143 million  contract, a mysterious LLC was created in Delaware, $143 million.

Mr. Speaker, if it really walks like, looks like, and quacks like a  corrupt duck, then that is probably what it is, and that is what this  is--$143 million, a just created company.

Well, the President and Ms. Noem have had a little bit of a  disagreement about this it seems. The President denies any association  with this, as he always does. My speculation is that Ms. Noem is  correct when she gives the indication that the White House approved of  what she was doing and, of course, the President doesn't know anything  about anything at all associated with some sort of corrupt activity  that he might be aligned with. In this case, Ms. Noem is the person who  is going to take the fall. She has been removed from her position.

By the way, there were Articles of Impeachment filed against her. I  am one of the persons who signed on to them and believe that she should  have been impeached. She has been moved now to some other position, but  I think that Ms. Noem should be removed from the government, from the  offices of the government. The good offices should not have Ms. Noem  associated with them after this incident with the contracts, but more  important than this, this is about money.

I think about what has happened with the human lives that have been  lost--innocent persons, two people; American citizens, two people;  unarmed, two people participating in peaceful protests--two people who  have lost their lives. These people have families that are still in  mourning, still in mourning, and the President and Ms. Noem just move  on.

They go on to the next big scam, scheme. They move on to the next big  thing that the President does that is questionable. For example, going  to war without conferring with Congress. He decided that on his own  volition he can just take nuclear-powered aircraft carriers into a  position off of the coast of a country, engage in gun boat diplomacy,  and then, after he concludes that the diplomacy has not succeeded,  simply decide he is going to go to war and so much as say it.

Then we decide here in Congress that we are going to take up the  cause of being Congress people because of the Constitution, which  accords the power to go to war, conferred upon the Congress, placed  within the hands of the Congress. Each Member of Congress will have a  voice and a vote. When we decide we are going to take up this challenge  and say to the President, you can't do this, this is wrong, and it has  to stop.

Well, my Republican colleagues will cover, and they do a good job of  allowing the very power that has been accorded them, placed and  entrusted to them in the Constitution of the United States of America,  they now delegate that to the President even when it is in  contravention of the Constitution, and it is because there was no  imminent threat to this country from Iran.

No imminent threat, which is one of the reasons why I voted against  H. Res. 1099--I believe that is the number for it--because it had in  there that Iran is a threat to the United States. Iran is not a threat  to us. We are a superpower. Iran is not capable of harming us. Then  they say, well, in 10 years, they could. Well, in 10 years a lot of  other things could happen, but I don't think we should simply go to war  because someone says to us that Iran is a threat to us when we know  better. Our intelligence would tell you better.

Iran is just not a threat to the United States of America, and as  such, I don't  think we should be at war with a country that is not an imminent threat  to the United States of America.

Mr. Speaker, Iran is not an imminent threat to the United States of  America. We shouldn't be at war with Iran. I voted today for the War  Powers Resolution, the Khanna resolution. It is a resolution sponsored  by two Members of Congress. I mentioned Khanna.

This is a resolution that we should respect, and we should make sure  that history shows where we stood in such a time as this, when the  resolution was presented to us on the floor.

I absolutely believe that if there is an imminent threat, then we can  take--we can allow the President to have certain latitude. Without  that, it should not be done.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Massie and Representative Khanna.  Representative Massie was the lead, I believe. Representative Khanna  was there with him. I thank them both for what they have done to bring  this to the floor, and I regret that the resolution did not pass.

Mr. Speaker, moving on to the Trump politics and the corruption in  politics, the corruption in politics emanates from the President having  decided that he will simply take, in mid-decade, congressional seats  from various States wherein Republicans have the ability to do this  because Democrats happen to have seats that are coalition seats. These  are seats where different groups have joined together, and they are  electing representation of their choice.

Down in Texas, the President said let's take five seats from the  Democrats and award them to the Republicans. The Governor of the State  of Texas, being the loyalist that he is to the President, complied  completely, totally, and absolutely as best as he could. I am not sure  that he will succeed when the final bell rings on election night in  November. I am just not sure.

They made every effort to do what the President has demanded, being  the loyalists that the attorney general and the Governor of the State  of Texas are. As a result, these seats were removed. There were five  seats, one of them in Houston, when the Ninth Congressional District  and the 18th Congressional District were combined. That means one less  seat in Houston, Texas, on the Democratic side. When this was done, it  created mass confusion, unbelievable confusion.

There were people who were prognosticating all kinds of things.  People were saying that certain Members were not going to be returning.  All of this prognostication has been, unfortunately, derailed because  the persons who were engaged in it didn't quite succeed like they  thought they would. They won't succeed like they think they will.

It is amazing how this corruption now brings in the crypto industry.  The crypto industry has decided that they are going to target people  around the country, spending not $1 million but millions of dollars.  The crypto industry would, if they could, control the Congress of the  United States of America. I am one of the people standing in their way.  I will continue to stand in their way.

They graded me out, and I got an F. I am as proud of that F as any A  I have ever received in life. I am very proud to say that the crypto  industry does not find favor with me. They believe that those who  receive A's from them should be rewarded by eliminating the opposition  in Congress that is to them, the opposition to them in Congress.

The crypto industry is on a roll now. They are going to go around the  country. They are going to buy congressional seats. That is what they  are doing. They buy congressional seats. They buy reputations for  people who are running on their side of the ledger. They then spend  just millions of dollars on ads to try to remove people who are  antithetical to what they are doing with their crypto program, the  program which entails as little regulations as possible.

The best use of cryptocurrency right now seems to be that of allowing  those who are engaging in blackmail and extortion to move large sums of  money. They move large sums of money without it being traced. There are  billionaires who would love and are enjoying knowing that they can move  large sums of money without it being traced because these large sums of  money can be used for nefarious purposes. They can be used for evasive  purposes, evading taxes. These are large sums of money, unregulated,  because the money can just move from one person to another in a flash.

Blockchain technology is a wonderful thing. The problem that we  have--and the thing that I consider a problem for this country--is the  impact that crypto may have on the dollar and the fact that these  dollars do not move through a central bank, meaning from one person  through a central bank to another person.

At some point, we will find that cryptocurrency can be used to fund  nefarious operations against this country. How do we prove it right  away when the money moves from one person to another without going  through a central bank? I want to see this regulated. I do. I am going  to continue to want to see it regulated, and I am going to continue to  fight to have it regulated.

This is something that I believe is going to injure our interest  rates when we borrow from other countries, if it has an adverse impact  on the dollar. The dollar is the reserve currency of choice across the  globe, meaning countries hold dollars in reserve in their coffers.

We should cherish and protect the dollar as a reserve currency. There  are some people who are trying to knock the dollar out of this place.  There is a war for currency supremacy. In so doing, the dollar, if it  is diminished in some way, our interest rates could go up.

We have to be careful in terms of having the supremacy of the dollar  continue. Cryptocurrency could conceivably have an impact on the  dollar. I have had some tell me that it can, and they are concerned  about it. These are experts.

My hope is this: We will wake up and understand what is happening  with the cryptocurrency purveyors, the people who want to take control  of Congress. They are willing to spend millions, untold millions, to  remove people from office who are antithetical to them. We have to take  a stand against this. I will take that stand. There are many who will  stand with them. In doing this, something else is occurring.

When they can take the congressional seats by drawing lines and  simply taking them, and then if they can take them by using  cryptocurrency--and these are friends of the President. They are  friends of the President. The President and the cryptocurrency persons  who would desire to control Congress, as the President would desire to  control it, are all in this together. For the most part, right now, he  does.

These people, when they use this cryptocurrency, they are using it to  take away seniority. They want to get rid of senior Members of  Congress, and they are using their crypto dollars--they are really  American dollars. They are using this money to remove people from  office, and they are going after senior leadership in Congress.

Mr. Speaker, senior leadership is important in this Congress. Senior  leadership means the persons have been here. They have served. They  understand much of how this great institution functions. They also  understand how to get things done efficaciously.

There is something more important than all of this as it relates to  senior leadership. If we decide that seniority no longer has any merit  in the Congress of the United States of America--and that is the  direction we are moving in. If we decide that seniority no longer has  any merit in the Congress of the United States of America, money will  rule. When money rules, many persons will lose. A good many of them  will be people who just don't have access to billionaires,  millionaires, people who are exceedingly wealthy who can fund their  campaigns.

These campaigns are being funded. There are people who say they don't  take money from corporate America or don't take corporate dollars.  Well, no, they don't, but they have the money from these corporations  in these independent expenditure accounts that are actually funding the  campaign. That is a clever way to avoid saying that someone is getting  the money into their campaign, although it benefits their campaign.

These companies are spreading this money out in huge amounts to  benefit  campaigns. They are taking the seniority out. Seniority matters. It  does in Congress.

If we allow this to occur, the seniority, the means by which some  people move up, if it no longer exists, then money will rule. If money  rules, we will lose.

We cannot allow money to dominate more than it does currently because  it already has an outsized influence. If we allow money to take  complete control--no seniority, I assure you--then people who just  don't have access to the billionaires, the multimillionaires, and the  very wealthy will not have access to Congress.

Then, people who look to certain people to bring up issues that are  important to them will get them not as a primary consideration, not as  a secondary consideration, not as a tertiary consideration--I am not  sure where they would rank in the hierarchy of considerations--maybe  quaternary, I don't know, but I do know that they won't be primary.

As a result, what happens to people who are here championing the  cause of the very poor; the people who believe that Social Security is  an investment, not simply an entitlement; the people who believe that  there ought to be Medicaid for people who cannot afford insurance and  who are living sometimes in the streets of life; and the people who  understand that Medicare is something that we have to protect because  the insurance companies don't want you after you become a certain age?

There are people here who fight for these things. That fight can be  minimized. Don't you think for one second that there are not people who  wouldn't take that money that is now in Social Security, in the  government's hands, and put it in the stock market. There have already  been efforts to tamper with Social Security.

I stand and fight for these things: Social Security, Medicare, and  Medicaid. I have a history and a track record of fighting for these  things. We fight, and we win. We win because you still have these  programs. If we had lost the fight, you wouldn't have Social Security  as you know it now.

Texas was offered $100 billion for Medicaid expansion and rejected  $100 billion--Texas did--and we have to fight to get these things done.  That fight will be limited to people who are wealthy in and of their  own right and who can afford to take on the crypto giants and the very  wealthy. It will be fights among the very wealthy and the puppets of  the very wealthy. When that happens, this country is going to be a  country that can no longer say that it stands for liberty and justice  for all.

How can it be justice for all if poor people who need healthcare  can't get it? How can it be justice for all if Social Security is  minimized or placed in the stock market and is subject to the whims of  the market? No. The system that we have is a tried and proven system  that works well, so we have to protect it.

We have to protect it from the crypto corruption that is finding its  way into Congress to take out senior leadership and to destroy the  system by which persons get there after having served for some time and  being a senior person in line to have the opportunity to serve as a  leader. That is pretty important for people who don't know millionaires  and billionaires.

Mr. Speaker, finally, I think it appropriate to talk about not only  how the corruption has permeated Congress and how the corruption is  right before our eyes in the stock market, where pumping and dumping is  taking place, but how the corruption is taking place as it relates to  persons who simply are trying their very best to engage in the process  of buying and selling stocks but find themselves on the losing end.

All of this corruption is taking place before our eyes, and we have  to do something about it. I think that the best way to do something  about a thing is to go to the root of it--the root cause. What is it  that is at the very essence of the thing?

Mr. Speaker, this corruption is aided and abetted by a President of  the United States of America, who is engaged in the corruption and the  skimming and scamming in the stock market. He is a President who would  take seats from one side and award them to another side just to  maintain power and to make sure that he stays in office. He said as  much that he is afraid that we will impeach him, and he is right. This  President is at the root cause of this.

If you look around the world, you will see all of the turmoil that he  is creating around the globe, across the globe, using the military at a  whim.

He has taken on certain things that we just never expected a  President to do. We always thought Presidents would have a certain  amount of dignity, a certain amount of decorum, and a certain amount of  principle.

This man has no principles. He does whatever he chooses, when he  chooses, and he knows that he has the backing of Congress--that would  be the House and the Senate on the Republican side, not the Democrats-- and he has, to a certain extent, the backing of certain people on the  courts who are loyal to him.

I regret to see all of this happening, but I do know this: There is a  solution that the Constitution has given us here in the House of  Representatives and in the United States Senate.

This is why this was instilled in the Constitution, this remedy that  I am calling to your attention. It was put there for a time such as  this and a President such as Trump.

This is why it is there. This is why we should use it, so that we  would honor the Framers of the Constitution and their infinite wisdom  and understanding that, when someone is placing himself above and  beyond the law and being aided and abetted in the process, then there  has to be a means by which that person can be dealt with.

It is political. It was intentionally political. The process is  political. The process is such that you can bring that person before  the bar of justice right here in the House of Representatives and, when  that person is brought before the bar of justice here in the House,  every Member has a vote.

Do not let people calling themselves constitutional scholars try to  convince you that it is anything more than what President Gerald Ford  said it was. President Gerald Ford said that this process is something  that is lawful whenever 218 Members say that it is, assuming that that  is the majority on a given day.

Whatever the majority says that it is in the House, there is no  appealing the decision of the House. No Member has to say why they  voted the way they voted. You vote. You vote your conscience with this  process. When you vote your conscience with this process, if you vote  to do as they did in a bygone era with Andrew Johnson, as they did with  him, they voted to impeach him because he spoke ill of the House of  Representatives.

Don't let people convince you that it has to be something that is  more than what the will of the House says that it is because it is not  appealable. It is comparable to an indictment in the House--not the  same, but comparable.

Then, if this process functions as it should, it goes over to the  Senate. Then, the Senate takes up the process, and the Senate can try  the President. If the President is convicted, the President can be  removed from office.

This process, you have been wondering what it is, I am sure. This  process is one that we have a countdown on, and I am absolutely  committed to it. There is a countdown to impeachment. Impeachment is  the process. This is what the Framers of the Constitution accorded to  us for a time such as this and a President such as what we have:  impeachment.

There is a countdown to impeachment, and, yes, Mr. President, quake  in your boots because I will tell you the truth: You will be impeached.  We are laying the foundation for it right now. You are going to be  impeached again.

There are people who would say that if you can't get him convicted in  the Senate, why impeach him in the House? It is because we want  posterity to know that the House of Representatives did its job.

Let the Senate then have the opportunity to do their job. We send  bills to the Senate all the time that we know that the Senate won't  pass. We do it all the time. We did it for tens of years with  healthcare knowing that we couldn't get it done, and we finally did get  what is called ObamaCare, the Affordable Care Act.

That didn't happen overnight. Many times, we sent legislation over to  the  Senate that didn't pass, and we do it now. Yet, when it comes to  impeachment, the persons who don't want to see it will say that we  shouldn't use that same paradigm. You shouldn't send it over unless you  know that the Senate is going to take it up and pass it.

If that is the case, we wouldn't send most of what we send over to  the Senate right now because we can't pass it, and the Senate won't  take it up, for whatever reasons. I am talking about from the  Democratic side. We should not allow that to become the asset test for  whether we are going to do the right thing. The right thing to do is to  impeach him right here, send it over to the Senate, and give the Senate  an opportunity to act.

I am committed to this process. I do it as a matter of conscience. I  do it as a matter of conscience. I do it because I believe that we  shouldn't allow this country to just go down the tube or down the  drain. I don't want to see my country on the trash heap of history.  This is a great country, and it can be great if we remove the stain  from its conscience that the President has imposed upon it.

This is our time. We are the people, and we can change this because  this President is truly unfit to hold the office that he holds. There  are people who would defend him to the nth degree, and I cannot  understand how you can see all that is happening to this country and  still defend this President's actions.

We now have found ourselves devolving into authoritarianism. Then  what lies beneath authoritarianism? One-person rule. One-person rule  meaning more so than one person with cohorts, one person alone ruling a  country that extolls liberty and justice for all, government of the  people, by the people, for the people. That is where we are headed.

I stand in the way, with some others. I don't stand alone on this.  There are others who are with me. But the people in this country are  going to rise up and demand impeachment. In fact, they are already  doing it. They are just waiting on us to catch up. Well, I am going to  help us catch up.

There is a countdown to impeachment, and I am guaranteeing you and I  am assuring you that there will be additional Articles of Impeachment  brought before this House of Representatives. I do it as a matter of  conscience, and I do it knowing that there are people who are going to  spend all kinds of money to prevent me from doing it. Let them spend.  But I will leave, if they do succeed, knowing that I gave it my best.  Every day that I was here, I gave it my best, and I pledge to you you  will continue to get my best.

God bless you. God bless the United States of America. The countdown  to impeachment continues.