No Mandate to Cut Medicaid


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise, and still I rise,  a proud, unbought, unbossed, liberated Democrat.

And still I rise, censured but not silenced. It is important to have  this photo tonight because it will get us into some very important  issues.

This was the occasion when I stood before the President as he stood  behind me giving a statement at a joint session of Congress. I was  seated right over in the third row up.

The President started to talk about his mandate. I collected my  portable items, and I was about to make my way out to the aisle so that  I could traverse my way out through the doors. That was my means of  peacefully protesting, but as I moved and he talked about his mandate,  something came over me. It was spontaneity. It was not contrived.

I stood and I said to the President: You don't have a mandate to cut  Medicaid. That was what I said.

Now, the press has distorted that, a good many of them, these opinion  makers, opinion shapers. They want to define people and define what you  say notwithstanding your having said something contrary to what they  would like to hear.

They said that I said he didn't have a mandate. I never said he  didn't have a mandate. I said he didn't have a mandate to cut Medicaid,  and I still stand by it.

By the way, it became something that people across the country agreed  with. So, I said it, and then I left. I left after having been told  that I had to leave because the Speaker concluded that I was out of  order.

I have no hard feelings as it relates to the Speaker. I have no  animus to his requiring me to be removed, although I am the only person  who has ever been removed from a joint session of Congress.

Here is what happened after I left. The President, from this podium,  looked over toward my Democratic colleagues, and the President said to  them, as he was talking, words tantamount to them being lunatics. He  said it. Members of the Congress of the United States of America are at  a joint session of Congress, and the President calls the Democrats  lunatics.

I wasn't here. I don't know what I would have done had I been here  and he called me a lunatic, because I never insulted him by saying  something negative about his personhood. I didn't do that, but I was  censured. The President was not censured for calling Members lunatics  at a joint session of Congress. He has not been reprimanded in any way.  We have allowed him to normalize his behavior.

I was censured. I had to stand in the well. I accepted my punishment.  I accepted it. I never criticized the notion that it was improper for  me to be removed. I did say that I didn't think the punishment was  appropriate in terms of being censured, but I never said anything that  would cause the President to believe that I was disrespecting him as a  human. He called Democrats lunatics--no penalties, nothing done.

We cannot allow the President to normalize demeaning people, calling  them names, low IQ. We can't allow him to do this. If we do, at some  point, what I have in my hand now will occur. I have in my hand an  article from Politico dated November 20, 2025. When we allow the  President to say these things with impunity, this is what we face.  November 20, 2025, 10:42 a.m. Eastern Standard time--it is styled:  ``Trump calls for Democratic lawmakers to face trial for `seditious  behavior.'''

I don't agree with that, but that is not the point. There is more to  be said.

It goes on to say, in bold print: ``SEDITIOUS BEHAVIOR, punishable by  DEATH!'' he wrote on Truth Social.

The President is saying now that someone, Democrats, have engaged in  seditious behavior punishable by death.

Then, he goes on. The article reads: ``President Donald Trump on  Thursday called for six Democratic lawmakers to face arrest and trial  after they made a video encouraging U.S. servicemembers and members of  the intelligence community to refrain from following orders if they  broke the law.''

What does that mean if they broke the law? Well, it means this: If  the President gives you an unlawful order, you are not to follow that  order. That is what it means. By the way, that is what the law says.  You don't follow unlawful orders. We don't want people following  unlawful orders.

I am not going to name the people, but then it goes on to say: ``It's  called SEDITIOUS''--this is the President now. ``It's called SEDITIOUS  BEHAVIOR AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL,'' Trump charged in a post on Truth  Social. ``Each of these traitors''--now they have become traitors.  ``Each one of these traitors to our Country should be ARRESTED AND PUT  ON TRIAL.''

I don't agree with that, but that is not the most egregious thing in  this document that I hold in my hand. I will get to that as I read on.  ``Their words cannot be allowed to stand,'' he says.

Then, he goes on to say: ``We won't have a country anymore!!! An  example MUST BE SET.''

Now, we are getting close to the reason I am standing here tonight.  If he had only said the other things, I probably would have, as many  others are doing, just let it go, but sometimes, you can cross a line  of no return. The President crossed that line with these words. The  President then posted 16 Truth Social posts, including one that  advocated for hanging Democrats. Now, that is the line.

Mr. President, what is wrong with you? Don't you know that there are  people who will read this and consider doing something dastardly? Don't  you know that you are putting people in harm's way?

By the way, I don't think it just includes the eight people who are  named here. I don't think it just includes them. I think if you are a  Democrat, any Democrat, you should be concerned about what this  President has done. I don't think that this applies to just the six  Democratic lawmakers that are mentioned here--six, not eight. I think  it applies to all of us.

Just so that you will know, my friends, when you walk into my office  now, the first thing you see is a person with a gun. When I first got  elected to Congress, we didn't have police officers sitting out in the  lobby. You walk in now and the first thing you see is a person with a  gun. Why? Because of this kind of ignorant behavior on behalf of the  President. By the way, I am being kind by saying ``ignorant.'' There  are many other ways, many other ways, many other adjectives.

There is something wrong with the President. There is something wrong  with the President of the United States of America. For the President  of the United States to say that people should be--let me read it to  you one more time. The President then responded with 16 Truth Social  posts, including one that advocated for hanging Democrats.

There is something wrong with the President. There is something  wrong. We can't ignore this. We cannot allow him to say this with  impunity. We can't.

Now, I don't speak for anybody other than myself and everybody who  agrees with me. A lot of people agree with me that the President can't  be allowed to do this. That is why I say: ``Censured but not  silenced.'' I have not been silenced. I will not be silenced. I am not  going to be one who is going to allow this to take place and not speak  up and speak out and say to the world that this has to change.

We are normalizing not just hate, but we are normalizing these  signals to persons who may not be as stable as I would like for them to  be, who will then proceed to do something to harm someone.

Yes, when you come to my office, the first thing you see is a person  with a gun. When I go out to events now, I have to have someone to  escort me out to events. When I am in the airport, we have to be  escorted through the airports.

Do you think this improves the situation? This does not. This only  exacerbates a situation that we already are having to deal with. We  have had to allocate more funds so that Members can have armed  protection. For me it is armed--maybe for some others it is not--but  protection. This is not normal.

If we just allow it to continue, we may find ourselves at a point  where we can't stand here in the well and say what I am saying. We may  find ourselves at a point in the history of the United States of  America, which was a functioning democracy when the President took  office for this term, we may  find ourselves with an inability to exercise the constitutional right  of free speech.

You have to see what is coming. You have seen what he has done,  calling all of the generals in, all of these high-ranking officers. In  a sense, they spoke down to them. He changed the name of the Department  of Defense into the Department of War. He has become a ``might makes  right'' President--might makes right.

In a might makes right world, the weak are wrong. If you don't have  the might to match what the President is doing, then you are weak. I am  coming back to this, but I have to step aside for a second and say this  to you:

This is a President who has decided that he will use the awesome  power of the Justice Department to punish people who are perceived to  be, in his mind, persons who have harmed him in some way by simply  prosecuting him.

Now, look, if we can all decide that we are going to indict the  prosecutors in our cases, then we are not going to have a rule of law  in this country. What happens to the rule of law if everyday people,  like you and me--I can't force the Justice Department to do anything,  but he knows this. He knows that he and the Justice Department have  unlimited time, a coffer in the millions, if not billions, and that you  may beat the rap, but you won't beat the ride, you won't beat the  indictment. You will have to pay. This is all so obvious in terms of  what he is doing.

However, back to this. Censured but not silenced. Well, there is a  remedy. If my colleagues who generally sit on this side won't rein him  in, if the Supreme Court has decided that it won't, for whatever  reasons, then there is but one option left. There is but one.

The Congress of the United States of America has the authority to  rein in a President who commits impeachable offenses. Impeachable  offenses. Saying that Members of Congress that advocated for people to  follow the law, saying that these Democrats should be lynched, at some  point there is a line. This is the line. This is the solution.

We are in a countdown to impeachment. I intend to bring Articles of  Impeachment to remove this President, who is normalizing violations of  the Constitution. He could care less about due process. Due process,  the notion that you ought to be able to at least raise your hand and  say, hey, you have got the wrong person when you are being taken away  by people who have masks and are not properly identifying themselves as  members of the constabulary. You should be able to stop that.

In my opinion, people ought to be identified so that a person will  know who arrested them. However, he doesn't care. It doesn't matter to  him that we have a branch of the government called the judiciary. He  wants to impeach the judges when they differ with him. We have got a  Member of Congress who has filed Articles of Impeachment against a  judge because they don't agree with their opinion.

Most people in this country of more than 300 million people can't do  that. They can't decide that they are going to impeach the judge  because they don't like the opinion.

We have entered into an era now where an authoritarian President has  control of the House of Representatives, the Senate, and a Supreme  Court that has to date not challenged him properly, in my opinion, so  now he believes that he can say we should hang Members of Congress.

Well, Mr. President, you shouldn't. You shouldn't say that, and the  remedy is to remove you from office.

He shouldn't be allowed to serve out his entire term. I am not  implying that anything should be done to his physical person, no. I am  talking about what we can lawfully do, peacefully do. He should not be  allowed to finish his term of office because he is not getting better.  There is something wrong with him, and he is not getting better.

It is progressively moving toward a point in time when he will say  something that is going to impact every person in this country, it  seems. I hope that it never happens, but I do believe that he is  setting us up such that when he is to leave office, when his term is  up, he will have some rationale for staying on, and he will have the  power, the awesome power of the Presidency to back him up.

What he did when he should have left office before and he  encouraged--there are other words that I could use--people to come over  to the Capitol, a person was killed. People died. People were walking  around the Capitol with gallows, looking for the Vice-President,  calling out Speaker Pelosi's name, defecating in the Capitol, and not  in the necessary facility, but in inappropriate places.

He did that. When do we get enough evidence to realize that what he  did once he will do again? Yet, he has now greater authority because of  the Supreme Court saying to him that he is immune to certain things. He  has been given a certain amount of immunity, which he has taken as  absolute immunity.

We can see what is happening. He is progressively moving toward the  date that he is to leave office, when, in my opinion, he will not. I  think he will try to stay on. I think he will use the awesome power of  the Presidency--and if he can, the United States military--to stay.  That is my prognostication.

Mr. Speaker, I don't want to wait until he does it to take a stand.  That is why I am counting down to impeachment now. That is why I am  taking a stand now. I am not saying to any other Member that they must  vote to impeach. I am saying to everybody they have notice now. They  can do all of the things they want to do to prevent the Articles of  Impeachment from coming to the floor for a vote. Go ahead and do that.

For posterity, I want everyone to know there was one Member of  Congress at least--I believe there are others--but there was one Member  of Congress at least that realized we should have taken action and one  did. We must take this action.

If nothing else, maybe if he sees that impeachment is imminent, maybe  he will change his behavior. I doubt it. Maybe he will change it. Maybe  he will come to his senses and realize that what he is doing is harmful  to democracy--to democracy. It is not just harmful to the people he  demeans but to democracy.

Mr. Speaker, I will bring these Articles of Impeachment. Everybody is  on notice now--everybody. Not only am I going to file them but I am  going to ask for a vote. This cannot stand.

There are people who will say in quiet places something similar to  what I just said. I hope that those people will have the courage. If  they don't want to say it publicly, I just hope they will have the  courage to do what they can do to prevent the imminent threat that this  President has become to American democracy. I say ``threat.'' It is an  assault on democracy now. It was a threat. It has now become an  assault.

We are in a countdown to impeachment. I am giving every assurance  that I can. Please take me literally. I plan to bring these Articles of  Impeachment against this President. I pray that the Senate will  convict. The Articles of Impeachment filed in the House are comparable  to an indictment but not the same. They are comparable to it in a  sense.

The Senate then has a trial. I would hope that the Senate would vote,  Republican and Democrat, to convict and remove this President from  office. That would be my desire. I don't always get what I want, which  means I have got to be prepared to file again.

Mr. Speaker, I am not going to let this behavior die. If my  colleagues don't vote this time, it is okay. I will file again because  there is plenty he has already done. Not everything should be put into  just one set of articles. There are plenty of other things.

Mr. Speaker, I already have articles pending against him that I call  the sword of Damocles for what he has done in defying court orders, in  flouting court orders, and not giving due respect to orders of the  court. This is the President of the United States doing it. This is not  just some other person. It is the President.

They are hanging there. I am waiting to get the order from a judge  who is looking at it. I have been waiting since this occurred. There is  a judge looking at a case that was before him. If this judge rules, as  I think he will, the sword of Damocles will fall on him. I am referring  to the articles I have already filed dealing with his failure to obey  the simple constitutional premise  of persons having a right to due process.

Everybody in the country knows--as he would say, ``everybody.'' We  know everybody doesn't, but that is his terminology. Everybody knows  that we get due process in the United States of America except the  President. They get what a might-makes-right mentality accords them  when they are dealing with the President.

We have this countdown to impeachment. I am going to file against him  before the Christmas break. I will let everybody have fair shots at me  and do whatever they need to do. I probably shouldn't have said  ``shots.'' I will let everyone take whatever lawful measures they think  they should take.

Before the Christmas break, I plan to have articles filed and voted  on right here in the Congress of the United States of America because  we cannot allow him to normalize the notion that someone can just hang  Members of Congress because they don't agree with their position. Even  if their position is wrong, he shouldn't say it. I am referring to six  Truth Social posts, one including that he advocated for hanging the  Democrats.

If anybody wants to read this, it is in Politico. Thank God for  Politico. It says: ``Trump calls for Democratic lawmakers to face trial  for seditious behavior.''

By the way, there are Members who will agree with this. There are  Members who will say it is okay for the President to say we can hang  people in this fashion. They will say it because it has become normal  for some people.

Mr. Speaker, I don't live in that world. I live in a world where the  President of the United States is supposed to be the most respected  person in the country and where the President of the United States is a  person who sets the example. He is an exemplar and not just an example.  He is an exemplar. He is a supreme and superb exemplar of what behavior  should be like in the country.

Even Presidents make mistakes, but these are not mistakes. These  things are done with intentionality, and they are done almost on a  daily basis. There is something new almost every day. I expected  something new today, but I didn't expect this.

Before Christmas, we will vote again on impeachment. I am giving  notice now so that no one will say they are surprised when I bring  additional articles. I already have some on file, and there are other  things that he has done that I shall pay attention to. This has some  specificity associated with it, but there are other things, as well.

Mr. Speaker, as I conclude my message tonight, I think it is  important to note that we live in a participatory democracy. Every  person has a duty, responsibility, and an obligation to participate in  our functioning democracy. We should vote. We should serve on a jury.  We also have a duty in a participatory democracy to protect the  democracy. We have to protect it.

We can't just allow a President to become a might-makes-right  authoritarian. We have to protect the democracy that we have inherited.  We do it for ourselves. We do it for posterity. We do it because,  without this participatory democracy, the world itself becomes at  greater risk.

Mr. Speaker, the United States of America is a pretty important piece  of the puzzle of life that the entire planet Earth is a part of. We  have got to protect this participatory democracy.