Notice of Intention to Offer Resolution Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to clause 2(a)(1) of rule  IX, I rise to give notice of my intention to raise a question of the  privileges of the House.

The form of the resolution is as follows:

H. Res. 939. Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United  States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.

Resolved, That Donald John Trump, President of the United States, is  an abuser of presidential power who, if left in office, will continue  to promote the incitement of violence, engender invidious hate,  undermine our democracy, and dissolve our Republic, that he is  impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors, and that the following  articles of impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate:

Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of  the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of  the United States of America, against Donald J. Trump, President of the  United States of America, in maintenance and support of its impeachment  against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.

ARTICLE I. Abuse of Presidential Power by Calling for the Execution  of Members of Congress.

In his conduct of the office of President of the United States,  Donald John Trump, in violation of his constitutional oath to  faithfully execute the office of the President of the United States  and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the  Constitution of the United States, and in violation of his  constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed,  has unfaithfully, dangerously, and unconstitutionally abused his  official position by threatening Democratic lawmakers in Congress with  execution.

President Trump called for the execution of six Democratic lawmakers,  all of whom are currently serving in the U.S. Senate or U.S. House of  Representatives and who previously served in the U.S. Military or in  U.S. Intelligence communities, in response to a short video that they  posted on November 18, 2025. In their video, the Democratic lawmakers  appropriately urged current members of the military and intelligence  communities to adhere to the Constitution and the laws of our country.  They specifically said: ``Like us, you all swore an oath to protect and  defend this Constitution. Right now, the threats to our Constitution  aren't just coming from abroad, but from right here at home. Our laws  are clear. You can refuse illegal orders. You can refuse illegal  orders. You must refuse illegal orders. No one has to carry out orders  that violate the law or our Constitution.''

On November 20, 2025, in response, President Trump called for their  execution. In one social media post, he wrote: ``It's called SEDITIOUS  BEHAVIOR AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL. Each one of these traitors to our  Country should be ARRESTED AND PUT ON TRIAL. Their words cannot be  allowed to stand--We won't have a Country anymore!!! An example MUST BE  SET. President DJT.'' In another, he wrote of the lawmakers:  ``SEDITIOUS BEHAVIOR, punishable by DEATH!''  Dangerously and unconstitutionally, he reposted a third party's post:  ``HANG THEM GEORGE WASHINGTON WOULD!!''

President Trump's call for the execution of lawmakers is a reckless  and flagrant abuse of presidential power that promotes extra-judicial  punishment and the assassination of Members of Congress, and warrants  impeachment by the U.S. House of Representatives and trial by the  Senate.

ARTICLE II. Abuse of Presidential Power to Intimidate Federal Judges  in Violation of the Separation of Powers and Independence of the  Judiciary.

In his conduct of the office of President of the United States,  Donald John Trump, in violation of his constitutional oath to  faithfully execute the office of President of the United States and, to  the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution  of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional duty to  take care that the laws be faithfully executed, has unfaithfully,  dangerously, and unconstitutionally abused his official position by  threatening federal judges.

President Trump has fostered a political climate in which lawmakers  and judges face threats of political violence and physical assault; and  in this climate has made threats and vituperative comments against  federal judges, putting at risk their safety and well-being, and  undermining the independence of our judiciary.

Case in point, in response to a federal district court ruling with  which President Trump disagreed, he posted: ``This Radical Left Lunatic  of a Judge, a troublemaker and agitator who was sadly appointed by  Barack Hussein Obama, was not elected President. . . This judge, like  many of the Crooked Judges' I am forced to appear before, should be  IMPEACHED!!!''

Another U.S. District Chief Judge has reported receiving increased  numbers of violent threats, particularly after he began hearing  arguments in a lawsuit against the Trump administration.

In 2025, roughly a third the federal judiciary has been flooded with  threats, with data showing that these threats spike each time Trump  uses abusive rhetoric against judges.

On May 2, 2025, Reuters reported that U.S. Supreme Court Justice  Ketanji Brown Jackson addressed President Donald Trump's attacks on the  judiciary. The relevant part of the article stated as follows:

1) ``U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson said on  Thursday attacks by Republican President Donald Trump and his allies on  judges were `not random' and seemed `designed to intimidate the  judiciary.' ''

2) Specifically, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Jackson remarked that,  ``The attacks are not random. They seem designed to intimidate those of  us who serve in this critical capacity.''

3) Justice Jackson added, ``The threats and harassment are attacks on  our democracy, on our system of government. And they ultimately risk  undermining our Constitution and the rule of law.''

The judiciary is afforded power over ``all Cases, in Law and Equity,  arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and  Treaties made'' and ``to Controversies to which the United States shall  be a Party.'' U.S. Const. art. III, sec. 2. Intimidating judges, and  recklessly calling for the impeachment and removal of judges who  disagree with him demonstrate a willingness by Trump to usurp authority  afforded by our Constitution to the judiciary and demonstrate a  disregard for the Constitution and the careful balance of powers that  protects our country from abuses by any single branch.

President Trump's threats place the lives of federal judges, court  officials, and innocent bystanders at risk, promote the incitement of  violence, and undermine our democracy, which cannot survive where  President Trump's incendiary comments engender invidious hate and where  dissent is punishable by death.

In all of this, Donald John Trump has acted in a manner contrary to  his trust as President and subversive of constitutional government to  the great prejudice of the cause of law and justice and to the manifest  injury of the people of the United States.

Wherefore Donald John Trump, by such conduct, warrants impeachment,  trial, and removal from office.