President Trump is A Threat to Our Republic


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697472/president-trump-is-a-threat-to-our-republic


Mr. GREEN of Texas.  Pressley).

Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, permit me to commend the gentlewoman  for her very moving and powerful commentary. With her consent and  permission, I would associate myself with it.

Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise, a very proud,  liberated Democrat, unbought, unbossed, and unafraid.

I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to address a question that many are posing  and a question that I thought I should answer publicly so that all  would understand. The question is: Why am I moving to bring impeachment  again against the President of the United States of America?

The answer will be better explained when the Articles of Impeachment  are presented. However, I do believe that it is necessary to give some  indication today and possibly at a later time as to why this is so  important, why would I do such a thing.

Mr. Speaker, I agree with Vice President Dick Cheney. I agree with  him. I agree with a statement that he has made. Yes, Vice President  Cheney represents the Republican Party or he did when he was Vice  President, and everyone knows that I am a Democrat, but that doesn't  mean that we can't agree on some of the important and great issues of  our time.

One of the great issues of our time is before us now, and I would  like to read the words of Vice President Cheney, words that I agree  with, Mr. Speaker.

Vice President Cheney indicated--and if I may use my pointer--on  September 6 of 2024 when this was published: ``In our Nation's 248-year  history, there has never been an individual who is a greater threat to  our Republic than Donald Trump.''

Let me pause for just a moment. I would like to highlight this  language: `` . . . an individual''--one person--``who is a greater  threat to our Republic''--an important statement--``than Donald  Trump.'' He says in 248 years. I will come back to these in just a  moment.

``He tried to steal the last election . . . '' Now, this was  September of 2024, so it is the election prior to September of 2024.  ``He tried to steal the last election using lies and violence to keep  himself in power after the voters had rejected him. He can never be  trusted with power again.'' I agree with this.

``As citizens, we each have a duty to put country above partisanship  to defend our Constitution.''

Now let's walk back through this with emphasis on certain things. One  individual, Donald Trump, is a greater threat to the Republic than any  others. Never before has there been a person who has been a greater  threat than Donald Trump.

Why is he a greater threat? Well, you first have to understand, if  you don't, that we have a Republic. A Republic is government by the  public, but it is done by and through representation, representatives,  the House of Representatives. Representatives, the Senate. The Republic  speaks through representatives. We have a Republic. He indicates that  this President is a great threat to representational government, to the  Republic.

Well, let's look at this: He, Donald Trump, doesn't respect the  separation of powers. He believes that the judiciary should agree with  him, and if the judiciary does not agree, he has as much said they  should be impeached. He was so emphatic about this impeachment that the  Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States of America had  to call him out publicly. He didn't use his name, but we all knew that  he was speaking to the President at the time, President Donald Trump.

The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court reminded the President that in  this country we have a history of appealing decisions of the courts. We  don't impeach judges because we don't agree with their decisions. We  appeal these decisions. He doesn't respect separation of powers. He  owns the House of Representatives. He owns the Senate. The Senate and  the House will not make a move without his consent and permission.

Mr. Speaker, as of late, however, there are some indications that  some independence is starting to present itself.

Generally speaking, the President doesn't respect the separation of  powers. If a Member of the House disagrees with him, he immediately  calls upon the constituents of that Member to do what is necessary  within the law, generally speaking, to make sure that that Member gets  phone calls. He makes  sure that that Member is intimidated to the extent that that Member has  to reconsider whatever the disagreement was.

This is the President of the United States, the intimidator-in-chief.  He prides himself on his ability to intimidate and to get persons to  cooperate. He doesn't believe in the separation of powers. He  disrespects the House, the Senate, and the Members who don't give him  what he desires.

He is also a person who thinks that he can literally do whatever he  pleases given that he has this mandate from the Supreme Court. The  Supreme Court has indicated--I say ``mandate.'' The Supreme Court has  given him an indication that he is above the law in certain areas. The  Supreme Court didn't use the language ``above the law,'' but the  Supreme Court has given him this belief that he is above the law.

The Supreme Court talked about immunity. He has taken this as an  indication that he is above the law. He will do pretty much whatever he  chooses.

One of the reasons that Vice President Cheney made these comments was  because, as the President of the United States of America--these are my  words and not Vice President Cheney's--the President incited the  insurrection. There are people using other terminology. I believe it  was an insurrection. It was an insurrection that took place after the  election wherein he was defeated.

He incited the persons to come over to the Capitol of the United  States of America, the citadel of democracy, as it is called and known.  He incited them to come over here and to invade the Capitol itself.

After the invasion took place, they went through the Halls. They did  some very ugly things. Aside from calling for the lynching of people,  aside from having some anti-Semitic commentary on various pieces of  paraphernalia, they had gallows. Aside from these things, they  committed other demeaning and vile acts, such as defecating in various  public places within the Congress, within the buildings.

These were some very vile and mean-spirited people who invaded the  Capitol. They did this at the behest of the President of the United  States of America.

After all of this was done, with the President being sworn in on  January 20, 2025, after all of this had taken place at a prior  election, the very first act that the President engaged in, it seems,  after he had raised his hand to be sworn in, upon lowering his hand, he  seemed to have rushed over to someplace where he had a document that  allowed him to pardon the people who defecated in the Congress, in the  buildings.

These were the people who marched through, looking for the Vice  President at that time, indicating that they wanted to do harm to him.  President Trump pardoned these people. It seems this was his very first  act immediately after being sworn in. This is the person who is  President of the United States of America.

Unfortunately, there are many people who just brush aside what  happened on January 6, 2021. They just brush it aside, as though: Oh,  well, that happened, but it won't happen again.

That seems to be the attitude that is preeminent among the minds of  many. If he did it once, what makes us think he won't do it again?  Where is the empirical evidence to support the notion he won't do it  again? This is a person who incited this. He pardoned these people as  one of his very first acts, if not the very first act that he engaged  in, after being elected President again.

On January 20, the President was sworn in. This is when he signed the  pardon for these people who came into the Capitol in a very  rambunctious way and in a very demeaning way, in fact.

People died as a result of this. He instigated this. What causes  people to think that he won't do it again? I believe that he will. I  believe that he will find great difficulty in stepping down from  office.

As a result of my belief, as a result of his not respecting the  separation of powers, as a result of his not understanding that there  should be some independence in the judiciary and that the judiciary is  not for him to supervise, I put all of this into my collection of  thoughts.

As I do so, I have to agree with Vice President Cheney. I mentioned  that in our 248-year history, there has never been an individual who is  a greater threat to our Republic than Donald Trump. Yes, he tried to  steal the last election, the election before September 2024, when this  statement was published. He tried to steal the last election using lies  and violence to keep himself in power after the voters, the people of  the United States of America, the voters, had rejected him. He can  never be trusted with power again.

Mr. Speaker, I will bring Articles of Impeachment because what Vice  President Cheney--may he rest in peace--what Vice President Cheney said  on September 6, 2024, is true now. We should never have trusted him. He  has been given a second chance to steal fire from the gods. We should  never have allowed him to do so.

Mr. Speaker, there is a remedy. When the courts can't control him and  when his party won't control him, then the only remedy left is  impeachment. That is all that we have.

There are some people who would say this is not the right time. Let's  address the question of timing. Dr. King said that the time is always  ripe to do what is right. If the Republic is at risk, the time is  always right to do what is right, to make sure the Republic is  protected. I will be doing what I believe is right to protect the  Republic. There were people who said to those persons who were at the  Edmund Pettus Bridge on Bloody Sunday: This is not the right time to  march. Don't march now. Let's do it another day.

The Honorable John Lewis, who was a Member of this House, a  colleague, said: No, we march.

They did march. They marched, knowing there would be harm that they  would have to suffer. They knew this. They saw the constabulary as they  approached the crest of the Edmund Pettus Bridge. They knew what was  going to happen, but they marched on.

If they could march on, knowing that they were going to be harmed-- and the Honorable John Lewis told me personally he thought he was going  to die on that bridge. They beat them all the way back to the church  where they started. These were churchgoing people. They beat them all  the way back.

If they could march on, facing this kind of danger, surely, I should  march on and bring Articles of Impeachment. I am not requiring or  asking any Member of this House to vote with me. I ask my colleagues to  vote their conscience. I ask them to do what they believe is right. I  will vote my conscience. I am not going to vote to table these Articles  of Impeachment.

For whatever reason, those who vote to table are indicating that they  don't think it should be an actual vote or that there should be an  actual vote on the articles themselves. They are saying they want to  put this off. If that is their opinion, they can do that. That is not  my opinion.

There needs to be a vote not only on this motion to table that will  be presented, but also a vote on the actual Articles of Impeachment.

This man is a threat to our Republic. He cannot be trusted. Vice  President Cheney was right then, and he is right now.

I am going to bring those Articles of Impeachment.

The public is constantly asking me: How many votes do you think you  will have?

I can only assure them of one thing, Mr. Speaker: I will have one  vote. This I can assure them of. I will have one vote.

Why?

It is because I believe that it is better to stand alone on some  issues than to not stand at all. I will stand. I will present the  articles, and when I vote, if I am the only person to do it, then I  will know and posterity will know that I have done the right thing.                               And Still I Rise

Mr. GREEN of Texas. And still I rise, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today proud to be a liberated Democrat, proud of  what my country stands for in many of its great documents, and proud of  the notion that we are a government of the people, by the people, and  for the people.

I am proud to know that the pledge has in it the notion that there  should  be liberty and justice for all. I am proud to know that we have these  words that indicate to all that all persons are created equally and  endowed by the Creator with certain inalienable rights, among them  life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

I am proud that we would receive and have the Statue of Liberty. The  statue speaks to the world about who we are. It really symbolizes the  United States of America. It is an awesome piece of work that was  accorded the United States and given to us from our friends, the  French. It is a piece of work, a piece of handcrafted work, that is  known the world over. People recognize this as a symbol of the United  States of America.

It has some words on it. Mr. Speaker, it has these words:

``Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to  breathe free.''

The United States stands for freedom and for liberty and justice for  all.

``The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the  homeless, tempest-tost to me.''

Bring them to us, the United States of America.

Then it goes on to say:

``I lift my lamp beside the golden door!''

Mr. Speaker, the golden door is the door that stands for opportunity  and that stands for liberty and justice for all. It stands for  government of the people, by the people, and for the people. That is  the golden door.

For those persons who are homeless, for those persons yearning to  breathe free, that is what the Statue of Liberty has stood for until  recently.

The beautiful lady has these words:

``Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to  breathe free.''

Now the beautiful lady, the symbol of the United States of America,  hasn't been enshrined on it, but at this point, given the behavior of  this President, Donald Trump, given his behavior, these words should be  associated now with the Statue of Liberty: Give me your tired, your  poor, your huddled masses yearning to be breathe free, with one  exception: people of color need not apply. People of color need not  apply.

The President of the United States has indicated that there are  nations from which all immigration applications have been put on hold.  There are 19 nations, and the interesting thing about the 19 nations,  Mr. Speaker, is all, saving maybe one or two, are nations where persons  of color are preeminent. This is the case in all, save one or two.

The President is giving the impression, Mr. Speaker, that if you are  a person of color and an immigrant, then you are a threat to the United  States of America.

This is a form of collective punishment that is unacceptable. He is  causing people within this country to fear the other, the other, the  people from other countries.

If you are Latino in this country, you are now suspect. Mr. Speaker,  it doesn't matter where you are from. If you are a Latino in this  country, then you are now suspect. If you look like you are a Latino,  then you are now a suspect in the United States of America.

I remember when I was suspect, I probably still am in some quarters,  but I remember when I was suspect. I remember when I was a young man in  the United States of America, and generally speaking, it was thought  among the minds of many, that young persons of color would commit  crimes, that they were criminals, that they would steal, and that you  have to watch them.

When you go into a store, Mr. Speaker, people watch you. This is when  I was a younger man.

It was thought that we were somehow undesirable. In fact, I had  people tell me: Go back to Africa.

They didn't even know who I was. This is what I was told as a much  younger person.

I think longevity has some benefits. It causes you to understand the  now because of what happened to you then.

I appreciate and understand why others are apprehensive about their  being in this country now. I appreciate it because I saw what happened  to me and others and how we were treated then. It was called  segregation, but that was another form of invidious discrimination  which was nothing more or less--maybe more, could have been more--than  racism. It was all about racism.

We are returning to that past that I thought we had left behind, Mr.  Speaker, when you decide that countries of color, saving one or two of  these 19, that you are not desired, you need not apply, you can't  apply.

What is interesting about this whole scenario is there are people  from European countries who have overstayed on their visas. They are  here unlawfully after having overstayed, by the President's definition,  but we never hear anything about it being unlawful. I am saying  unlawful. They use other language. I say undocumented immigrants, and  they say other things about the persons who are here without  documentation.

People who have overstayed their visas from European countries, you  don't see them being pulled out of cars, generally speaking. There may  be an exception, and the press will take that exception to prove a  rule, but that is not the way the rules are proved. You don't see it.

You see people of color, people from south of the border, people from  these 18 countries, that are being discriminated against with this  policy that he is implementing.

The American public, a good many people, not all, have bought into  the notion that if you are from a foreign country, you are likely to be  a criminal and you are likely to hurt me.

This symbol of freedom of the United States of America should have  enshrined now: People of color need not apply.

In spite of everything I just said, I love my country. I love my  country. I stand for what the Constitution stands for.

The Constitution of the United States of America should be respected.  I stand on the Constitution.

I believe that this President has gone too far in many areas, but I  especially am concerned about the way people of color are being  treated.

I have a history that I have to harken back to, and that is what  advises me as to how I can conclude that people of color need not  apply.

I want the President to know that he is not a king. Yes, he has  control over my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. Yes, the  Supreme Court seems to have become a partisan institution,  unfortunately. But there are some other folk in this country that will  have the last word. They are the people who are known as ``we, the  people,'' known as ``we, the people'' in one of our great documents.

We, the people--we will have the last word.

Not all Americans agree with this. They are people of good will. I  believe most people in this country are people of good will, and they  see what is happening. I believe that they want to make a difference,  and I encourage people to make a difference.

Don't do anything unlawful. I do not condone any acts of violence. I  do not. But peaceful protest is a part of American history. It is as  old as the Pilgrims landing at Plymouth Rock. It is as meaningful as  the farmers coming to this Capitol complaining about how their farmland  was being treated. It is something that is as meaningful in this  country as the actual Constitution itself because it is the  Constitution that gives it its meaning.

Peaceful protest, I support that. However, I also support something  else other than peaceful protest, and that is for people to vote.  Everybody ought to vote. I am not going to tell you who to vote for,  but I am going to say this: We have a country to save. We have a  country to save. You can't save your country by not participating.

It is a participatory democracy. You have every right as any other  person in this country, if you hear my voice. I have no greater right  to vote than any other person in this country, and neither does the  President. One person, one vote, Baker v. Carr. We have a duty and  responsibility and obligation to vote.

Today, I am encouraging people to vote. Vote, vote, participate.  However, I have a very, very special group of people that I want to  approach now with voting.

There will be Articles of Impeachment brought to the Congress of the  United States of America for reasons that will be stated in the  Articles of Impeachment. I am not saying to anybody that exactly what I  have said today will be the Articles of Impeachment. There will be some  members of the press who will distort my words and say that I want to  impeach because the Statue of Liberty doesn't have certain language on  it. You who are listening will know the truth. That is not true, but  that is the way certain members of the press behave. That is the status  quo press, as how I identify them.

But I want to say to the persons who are going to be a part of this  impeachment, and that will be all of the Members of the House of  Representatives, if they choose to be a part of it. People can opt out  if they choose to.

I would encourage you to vote. I am not going to tell you how to  vote. What I am going to suggest to you is this: I will be voting my  conscience. I will be voting to protect liberty and justice for all. I  will be voting to protect government of the people, by the people, for  the people. I will be voting to make sure that all persons are created  equal and endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights,  among them life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

I will be voting to protect the country I love. I hope that you will  do a similar thing. If you don't vote the way I vote, just understand  this: I am not expecting everybody to vote with me, but I can assure  the public of one thing: I will be voting for those articles to not  only come to the floor but to be voted on so that at least one person  can show that we believe--this one person believes, and I will be that  one person possibly. One person can show that I believe in what the  country stands for, and I am willing to take a stand to support what I  believe. On some issues, it is better to stand alone than not stand at  all.

I pledge to bring the Articles of Impeachment to this floor before  the Christmas break. I invite all to participate. Vote here and be  alert so that you may understand better why I will do what I will do.

I am honored to do what I do. I am honored to serve in this House,  and I am grateful to the Speaker and the minority leader for allowing  me this time.