Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693211/providing-for-consideration-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise now, as I did  during the Joint Address to Congress when I told the President and the  Nation that there is no mandate to cut Medicaid. The waste, fraud, and  abuse argument is a facade, because no empirical evidence has been  presented to justify cutting more than $1 trillion from Medicaid,  Medicare, and the Affordable Care Act. These deep cuts will allow the  richest Americans to receive, on average, an additional $30,000  annually, while the poorest Americans will lose approximately $700  annually.

This legislation is a complete betrayal of the American people,  extending additional tax breaks to the wealthiest individuals in this  country while cutting lifesaving, urgent services for the most  vulnerable among us. The cuts to Medicaid, Medicare, and the  Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) alone will take health  care and food assistance away from millions of veterans, seniors, and  families across the country.

Congressional Democrats offered many amendments to ensure that  critical services would not be cut. I submitted an amendment to ensure  that individuals who have had their SNAP benefits stolen are able to  receive a reimbursement. I also submitted an amendment which would help  raise awareness of the risk of renal medullary carcinoma, an aggressive  form of kidney cancer found in young individuals with the sickle cell  trait. These common-sense amendments would not substantially add to the  deficit, yet they were still rejected by Congressional Republicans,  alongside all other amendments submitted to make this bill less cruel.

With H.R. 1, President Trump and Congressional Republicans have shown  that they want a billionaire bailout at the expense of working  families.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 566 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

Strike everything following the resolved clause and insert       the following:

That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order       to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 1) to provide       for reconciliation pursuant to title II of H. Con. Res. 14,       with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the       House, without intervention of any point of order, a motion       offered by the chair of the Committee on the Budget or his       designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment with       the amendment specified in section 2 of this resolution. The       Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read.       The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided       among and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member       of the Committee on the Budget or their respective designees       and the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Ways and Means or their respective designees. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its       adoption without intervening motion.

Sec. 2. The amendment referred to in section 1 is as       follows:

In subtitle A of title I, strike sections 10101 through       10108.

Strike subtitle B of title VII.