Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689706/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-defining-larger-participants-of-a-market-for-general-use-digital-consumer-payment-applications-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-no-rogue-rulings-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to explain why new moms  cannot proxy vote. The issue is very simple, and the answer is even  simpler to understand. It is because men don't have children.

If men had children, there would be proxy voting. After all, it was  over 100 years that this facility was in place, and we did not have a  facility for ladies, a ladies' room.

Men have taken for granted the needs of women, and if women would but  only stand up across the board in this House, if all the women would,  we could get this done, but there are some women who are still siding  with men, who don't want women to have the right to vote when they are  new moms.

I am saying ``new parents'' now, but I am talking about moms. I think  every man has a good reason to want to do this because you ought to  respect the person who carried you for 9 months, labored with you, and  gave you the breath of life. It is time to make a change.