Racism Infused in Texas Politics


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise, a liberated  Democrat, unbought, unbossed, unafraid; censured, but not silenced.

I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to address the topic of racism infused in  Texas politics.

Mr. Speaker, I have in my hand a letter from the Justice Department.  It is a letter that has as its reference Unconstitutional Race-Based  Congressional Districts, and then it cites the districts: Texas  District 9, occupied by a person of color; Texas 18 was occupied by a  person of color, who is deceased, to be filled soon; District 29,  occupied by a person of color; District 33, occupied by a person of  color.

Now, this letter goes on to infuse race into the conversation. The  last sentence in the last paragraph reads: ``If the State of Texas  fails to rectify the racial gerrymandering of TX-09, TX-18, TX-29, and  TX-33, the Attorney General reserves the right to seek legal action  against the State, including without limitation under the 14th  Amendment.''

Race has been infused into this letter. It was sent to the Honorable  Greg Abbott, the Governor of the State of Texas, and the Honorable Ken  Paxton.

Dear friends, at the end of the day, if they can fulfill what they  proclaim in this letter, there will be more White representation in  Congress from Texas and less Black and Latino representation. This is  nothing more than an attempt to silence many of the voices that are  emanating from communities of color in the State of Texas. It is  racist.

Now, in this country there seems to be a problem with people saying  ``racism.'' It is okay to say ``anti-Semitism,'' but don't say  ``racism.'' Racism has not received the same amount of  acclaim when it comes to dealing with racist issues that anti-Semitism  has received when it comes to dealing with things that are anti- Semitic.

Well, I am not afraid. I am going to speak truth to power and about  power. Here is the truth: Under this President, Republicanism is  eroding and devolving into racism. This President has declined to allow  persons from countries of color to come into the country when he has  opened the door to Anglos from South Africa. This President has found a  way to circumvent what would ordinarily be a society that appreciates  and respects people of all colors, and he is turning society against  people of color.

This letter, if they succeed with this, will be the equivalent of  having a mid-decade redistricting without the empirical evidence  necessary to do it with a sense of justice. They will do this, and in  so doing, it is comparable to having the halftime at a basketball game,  and one team decides, because they have the power to do so, to remove  two players from the other team and let that team proceed with three  players, and they will now proceed with five. Oh, no, wait, you have to  have 10 players on the floor, so what they will do is they will just  take those 2 players and add them to their team. They will play with  seven, and the other team will play with three.

They are diminishing the amount of representation that people of  color will have in the State of Texas. Republicanism is being equated  to racism too often in this country, and that is not the case.  Republicanism has always been about conservative policies, but now they  are about racist policies.

This President is infusing, injecting racism into Presidential  policy. It is unconstitutional. I am going to fight it, but more than  that, I am going to tell the truth about it. If I happen to be one of  those who is extricated, who is removed, evicted, I will be bloodied  but unbowed.

Mr. Speaker, nobody is going to silence me. You can come after me,  but you won't stop me. You won't silence me. I refuse to allow  Republicanism in the form of racism to dictate the policies in the  State of Texas without my voice being heard.

Finally, this: I say to my friends that I have on my Texas tie. I am  proud to represent my State. I am proud to say I stand against  Republicanism as racism.