Speaking Truth About Power


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691156/speaking-truth-about-power


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise, unbought,  unbossed, and unafraid.

Mr. Speaker, I rise, driven by conscience, to embrace the moral  imperative to speak truth not only to power but to also speak truth  about power.

I rise today to acknowledge, driven by conscience, what the world is  witnessing as we see the collective punishment being imposed upon  Palestinians in Gaza.

I rise to say that this level of punishment is something that is  intolerable and has to be addressed.

I rise to say that not only is there collective punishment, there is  ethnic cleansing taking place in Gaza.

I rise to say that, at some point, we in this Congress have to take a  stand against the injustice being perpetrated against innocent  Palestinian men, women, and especially children.

This level of injustice is something that this country has always  stood against, but we find ourselves today standing with Mr. Netanyahu  and the government that is bringing shame to the country of Israel.  Israel should never do what it despises. I believe that the country of  Israel would despise this level of punishment, this level of injustice  being perpetrated upon another country. Yet, we find today, under Mr.  Netanyahu's leadership, Israel is gaining a reputation as a pariah  country.

Mr. Speaker, to add insult to this grave injury, the United States of  America, by and through President Donald John Trump, is aiding and  abetting by simply having him conclude that somehow Gaza should become  a resort of a sort and that the Palestinians would be moved to some  other place. That is a form of nouveau ethnic cleansing.

I do not support it, and I want the world to know that if in this  bill, this big, beautiful bill that the President would have us sign  off on that I am already antithetical to, if there is money in that  bill to support the continued ethnic cleansing, the continued  inhumanity that is taking place against the Palestinians, I cannot  support that. I will not vote to send more money to see innocent men,  women, and especially children slaughtered the way it is taking place  right before our very eyes.

The unfortunate thing is there are too many among us who are afraid  to speak up. I refuse to be among those who at this time are  challenging controversy, who would sit and cower. I am going to take a  stand not because it benefits me personally but because conscience says  we cannot allow these injustices to go unpunished. I am driven by  conscience to say that I won't be supporting sending any additional  dollars to Israel, having already sent and voted for more than $50  billion.

Nobody can accuse me of not being supportive of Israel. I have  supported it, but I can't support the Netanyahu administration and what  it is doing to the country of Israel. I can't support what is happening  in my country as our President would embrace this ethnic cleansing.

This is the hour of decision. This is the time for every person of  good will to make a decision. I stand for peace in Palestine and the  two-state solution.

There are those who say that there is no plan for the interregnum,  what we call the day after. Mr. Netanyahu does have a plan. It is to  take all of Palestine. It is to take all of Gaza. It is to take the  West Bank. He has a plan. Don't assume that because he is going in  without our permission that he doesn't have a plan; he does.

My plan is to vote against any additional funds to the State of  Israel.