State of Our Union is Fragile


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700176/state-of-our-union-is-fragile


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, and still I rise. I rise today to  state the state of the Union.

Madam Speaker, the state of the Union is fragile. It is fragile  because we have a President who does not respect democracy. He believes  that he can go to war at will without conferring with the Congress of  the United States of America. He believes that there is no such thing  as separation of powers. He believes that if he thinks it is right,  then the courts have to agree.

He doesn't believe in due process of the law. He would have people be  picked up on the streets and taken off to some distant place without  any indication as to where they are, such that family members can  understand that they are at least okay.

He is a reckless, ruthless President, and what he is doing at the top  has influenced things all the way down the line to the very bottom.

We now have officers who have taken the lives of two people, two  Americans, Madam Speaker. They were unarmed, Madam Speaker. They were  not a threat, Madam Speaker. Two American citizens have lost their  lives, and we have just moved on.

Madam Speaker, our democracy is at risk because we have a President  who disrespects the rule of law. He believes that if the ends can  justify the means, then any means are available to him to utilize to do  whatever he chooses. If we allow this to continue, Madam Speaker, the  Constitution will be meaningless.

There is but one solution to a reckless, ruthless, lawless President.  It has to be utilized because we want history to show that we had the  courage to do what was right. Dr. King has given us the notion that the  time is always right to do what is right.

There is but one solution, and that solution is impeachment, trial,  and conviction, but if not trial and conviction, impeachment, so that  those who look through the vista of time will understand that we took a  stand against a reckless, ruthless, lawless President.