Where Do You Stand


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699134/where-do-you-stand


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise today on this, the birth date of Dr.  Martin Luther King, a man so great in the eyes of this country that we  honor his birthday as a holiday, but it is more than a holiday. It is  an opportunity for us to do some introspection, to examine some of the  many things that are occurring within our country that should be  addressed in a King-like fashion.

Dr. King had something that many other intellectuals of his time did  not have. He was an intellectual. He had something that many of the  persons who did speak up did not have; he had something called courage.

Many of the great intellectuals could expose and expound on some of  the great issues of the time, but they didn't have the courage to take  a stand, as Dr. King did, to go out into the public--into the streets,  if you will--with protest--peaceful protest--to bring about a change in  this country, and he did bring about a change.

So today, on his birthday, I want to honor Dr. King by speaking from  one of his quotes. He had many quotes that are quite quotable, to be  quite honest. It is difficult to single out just a few, but today I  will mention a couple. But there is one that I will focus on, the third  one. He, of course, is known for having said: ``Injustice anywhere is a  threat to justice everywhere.''

Injustice in Minnesota is a threat to justice in every other State in  the Union.

He didn't say that about Minnesota, but he was giving us the words to  help us understand that what is happening in Minnesota, if it is an  injustice, it can happen in your State. It can happen in Texas, my  State. ``Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.'' I  think that is probably one of his most-quoted quotes.

But then he also had one that is not quoted too often. This one is  one that people don't like to associate with Dr. King because it speaks  to his militancy, in a sense, but it also speaks to things that people  don't want us to do. We have a State that has as its motto Live Free or  Die.

Well, it is all right for a State to have that, but Dr. King's quote  was: ``A man who hasn't found something worth dying for isn't fit to  live.''

A man, a person, who has not found something worth dying for isn't  fit to live. Very few people will cite Dr. King for having said this.  By the way, I paraphrase a lot of what I am saying in terms of his  quotes.

``A man who hasn't found something worth dying for isn't fit to  live.''

But the one that I would like to quote today and say much about is  his quote that deals with the ultimate measure. ``The ultimate measure  of a man . . . '' is the way he put it, but I will be paraphrasing.

The ultimate measure--the ultimate measure of the person is not where  the person stands in times of comfort--comfort, when all of your bills  are paid and you are living the high life--not where the person stands  in times of comfort and convenience--when everything is at your  fingertips. You have at your fingertips all of the luxuries of life,  all of the things that make life worth living.

The ultimate measure is not where the person stands in times of  comfort and convenience, but, rather, where do you stand in times of  challenge--challenge, when you have a reckless, ruthless, lawless  President who is breaching the Constitution, who is doing things that  we never expected to see in our lifetimes. Where do you stand when you  have a President who is doing things within and without the country  that we did not anticipate?

Dr. King says that the ultimate measure of the person is not where  you stand in times of comfort and convenience, but where do you stand  in times of challenge and controversy--controversy because what he is  doing is being justified by many people who stand in the corridors of  power. What he is doing is being justified by members of the clergy,  who ordinarily would take the righteous stand. Where do you stand?

``The ultimate measure of a man. . . .'' Where do you stand in times  of challenge and controversy?

Let's talk about this. Where do you stand when the President of the  United States has replaced Congress with corporate America; when the  President of the United States will consult corporate America before he  consults Congress; and when the President of the United States goes  into another country, Venezuela, bombs this country, and consults with  corporate America but does not consult with the Congress of the United  States of America? Where do you stand?

Well, here is where the Senate has taken a position. Here is where  the Senate stands. Let's first read what the Senate has in S.J. Res.  90. This is a resolution brought before the Senate and has been voted  on but was voted down.

Let's examine briefly an excerpt from the resolution.

The resolution reads: ``A joint resolution to direct the removal of  United States Armed Forces from hostilities within or against Venezuela  that have not been authorized by Congress.''

Remember, this is the President, who consulted with corporate America  but not the Congress of the United States of America. The Senate has  this resolution, S.J. Res. 90.

It continues in the Findings. ``Congress makes the following  findings.'' I will read a portion of one.

This is what Congress finds. This is the United States Senate:  ``Congress has the sole power to declare war under Article I, Section  8, Clause 11 of the United States Constitution.''

Congress, the sole power to declare war.

It goes on to say: ``Congress has not yet declared war upon Venezuela  or any person or organization within Venezuela. . . .''

Mr. Speaker, Congress not having declared war, a President who has  declared that he visited with corporate America before taking kinetic  activity in Venezuela, where do we stand?

Well, the Members of the Senate, 50 of them, stood with this  resolution. I would stand with them. I stand with them now, 50 of them  who stood for this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, 50 Members were antithetical to the resolution. When  this occurs, the Vice President of the United States has a vote.

The Vice President of the United States voted with those who were  antithetical to this resolution, S.J. Res. 90. You can research and  pull up the entirety of it, and I beg that you would.

So where do you stand when the Senate of the United States of America  cannot reclaim its power to declare war? And we ought to do it while we  can. We are losing it.

The ultimate measure of the United States Senate--what is the  ultimate measure of it when it has the opportunity to reclaim its power  to declare war and it doesn't?

We are finding ourselves now with the National Guard being sent into  various cities around the country, various States, without a request  from the Governors, without a request from the mayors, without a  request from the officials who are in a position to make that request,  without a request from the people, we the people not making that  request. I know that we the people don't make the request; the Governor  makes the request. But the point is we the people put the Governor in  place.

So we the people are not making the request by and through our  official agent, Governors, but the President has decided he would do  this. And he always concocts some fallacious, some fictitious means by  which this should be done, and he does it. And, unfortunately, we have  to ask: Where do the courts stand?

Some of the courts are yielding to the President's pressure. He has  threatened judges. Where do we stand when the President is threatening  judges? Where do we stand when the President has decided that there is  no separation of powers, that he can determine when a judge is right or  wrong and if that judge is wrong, that judge should be  impeached? Where do we stand when the Senate holds a hearing to discuss  the impeachment of judges who differ with the President of the United  States of America? It has been done. I saw it myself. Where do we  stand?

Where do we stand when, after the President has sent the National  Guard into various places, more turmoil has been committed as a result  of the Guard being there than was being committed before they arrived?  The President is the person who is creating the turmoil so that he can  then say: I am justified in sending the National Guard.

Where do we stand when a woman seated in her vehicle, a woman, Ms.  Renee Nicole Good, seated in her vehicle when she is approached by a  member of the constabulary in a rather aggressive way--and I am being  kind, because with that aggression was an insufficient amount of  profanity, more than sufficient. It was really insufficient, not  necessary, profanity.

Now, do we expect the constabulary to approach people and in this  process swear at them, or do we expect them to be respectful, be  respectful even when the person that the member of the constabulary is  approaching is disrespectful? That is our job. We are to be respectful,  notwithstanding the disrespect we have to suffer.

I was a judge. I remember having a man come before me in court and  said some very unkind things with profanity. I could have held him in  contempt. All I had to do was say: Mr. Bailiff, take this man over to a  certain area and hold him until I finish the docket. I have to have a  further discussion with him.

I could have held him in contempt, but I had heard enough of that  case to know that he was right about the facts in the case; he was  wrong in how he expressed himself. I never held that man in contempt. I  had the black robe on. I had the power.

How you use power determines whether you are a person who should  possess power, whether you are the person that should be armed with  lethality such that you can change a person's family's history and  remove a person from existence.

Where do we stand when officers approach a person such as Ms. Good  was situated and when Ms. Good says to this person: Dude, in a sense, I  am not mad at you. I am not mad at you. To the person approaching  aggressively: I am not mad at you. And as she is saying these things-- it has been said that these were her last words--another officer comes  across, near her, in front of her, and this officer with a video camera  has his weapon just with him. This officer, as she turns away, shoots  her and then, as she is passing by, shoots again.

I assume the first shot hit her. I don't know whether it did or  didn't. That is my assumption, so I am saying that. But we do know  this: There were additional shots fired as she passed by through her  window--the window was not up; it was not elevated--through her window.  We do know that she died. We do know because we have seen it.

Now, you can justify this if you would like, but you can't justify  the Justice Department concluding that it would not cooperate with the  local authorities with the investigation, not if you want transparency.  Where do we stand when the Justice Department refuses to be transparent  after we see what appears to be an injustice to many people? I am one  of them. I believe that the killing of Ms. Renee Nicole Good was a  grave, gross injustice. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice  everywhere. So where do we stand when this is happening? Where do we  stand? Sent in armed persons, and they have now taken a life in a way  that is quite questionable.

Well, where do we stand when the President now is saying that he is  declaring martial law? Well, he is not declaring it currently. He is  saying that he may have to, talking about martial law. He talked about  that some time ago. Actually now he is talking about the Insurrection  Act, the Insurrection Act. He is talking about the Insurrection Act. He  has spoken of martial law on other occasions long ago, a while ago, but  now the Insurrection Act. So that means he is going to send in the  military, if he does it, and then the next thing after that could be  martial law.

So are we going to just stand by and witness the President replace  Congress with corporate America, decide that he will send in the  National Guard, send it in to cities across the country without a  request from the Governor of the State? When he decides that he is  going to talk about now the Insurrection Act as his next tool, National  Guard already in, using the Insurrection Act, bring in the military,  the only thing left is martial law. He hasn't said that he will resort  to martial law at this time, but I want to say this: I have been trying  to warn you. I have been trying to warn the American people that this  President is moving us toward a dictatorship. I was among the very  first, if not the first, to say publicly that this was an  authoritarian, among the first to say it. It is difficult to be a part  of the avant-garde when you are trying to warn powerful people about  something that is taking place.

I have been trying to warn you. I say it is difficult because  Voltaire was right. It is dangerous to be right in affairs where  established men are wrong. It is dangerous to be right. It is dangerous  to be right when the establishment in this country refuses to  acknowledge what is taking place.

Thank God for people associated with free speech for people. Thank  God for the impeach and removal coalition, people who are willing to be  a part of the avant-garde, who are willing to take the proper stand  when they see democracy at risk, when they see the President absolutely  disregarding the separation of powers, absolutely disregarding the fact  that the judiciary has the authority to render opinions about  circumstances that have been brought before the judiciary.

There are some people who are standing up. I am proud to say that,  here in the Congress of the United States of America, there are people  who are taking a stand against this President's unconstitutional  behavior. They are taking a stand.

I am proud to tell you that many Articles of Impeachment have been  filed since the first was filed. Many have been filed, and I am on  every one of them.

December 9, a stand was taken. Articles of Impeachment were filed. I  am on those articles.

December 10, a stand was taken. Articles of Impeachment were filed. I  am on those articles.

January 14, a stand was taken. I am on these Articles of Impeachment.

I do not require people to stand with me when I take a stand, because  I sincerely believe, as I have said here at this microphone many times,  on some issues it is better to stand alone than not stand at all. I  don't lead by telling people you have to follow me. No, I am an  example. If you think I am a good example, then you can embrace the  example.

I am not out whipping people for votes. I am not going to demand that  people do something that I think is appropriate. I lead by example, and  I try to be a good example. I am not always a good example, so no one  should claim that I claim perfection because I do not.

I do claim this: On these issues related to the Constitution, I  refuse to stand by and see what is happening in my country as it  devolves into what I perceive as a dictatorship. I refuse to stand by  and see that and say nothing.

The truest and the ultimate measure of the person is not where you  stand in times of comfort and convenience when you have all of these  things happening that I have cited, but where do you stand in times of  challenge and controversy when these things are happening--not when all  is right with the world, but where you stand in times of challenge and  controversy.

Do you stand with the President who is behaving in an unlawful  fashion as it relates to the Constitution, or do you stand with the  Constitution? Do you stand with the Constitution of the United States  of America?

This is where we Members of Congress now have to make a decision. Are  we going to stand with the reckless, ruthless, lawless President, or  are we going to stand with the Constitution of the United States of  America?

I am proud to tell you that when we filed the last Articles of  Impeachment--and I have filed many. I plan to file more, just for  edification purposes. I will say more about that at a later time.

When the last Articles of Impeachment were filed, it was H. Res. 939.  With these Articles of Impeachment, there was a vote. I believe that we  ought to take a stand. We ought to take a stand. These are times of  challenge and controversy. We were elected to take a stand in times of  challenge and controversy.

Yes, I know that it can put my career at risk. There are people  trying to get me out of office, and they are doing a pretty good job. I  never know what my next day will bring.

I do know this: I will have my record show that I fought all the way  out. I didn't come to stay forever, but I did come to make a difference  while here on the great issues of our time.

Where do we stand? On H. Res. 939, 140 persons voted for H. Res. 939,  140 Members of Congress, not one from the other side of the aisle--140,  Members who hold high positions. I am not calling anybody out.

As a result, we have identified all of them in this document. This is  my copy. But all 140 Members who voted for H. Res. 939 will receive a  similar copy, and their names are all listed. Each person's name is  going to be highlighted one time, and that one time will be the time  that we will acknowledge this person as being in the document by  highlighting the name. That will be given to that person. Each person  will have his or her name highlighted on the page when no other names  are highlighted but that one person's.

It is important now for me to read a bit from H. Res. 939. It reads:  ``Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United States, for  high crimes and misdemeanors.''

I have to pause a minute and say this. The President said just  recently that ``they will find a reason to impeach me.'' Mr. President,  we don't have to find a reason. You are giving reasons. You are  providing reasons on a daily basis almost. I said ``almost.''

On a daily basis, you are providing reasons for people to file  Articles of Impeachment against you. The question is not whether the  reasons are there. You are providing them. The question is, Mr.  President, will we have the courage to bring you to justice?

This is the bar of justice for you, Mr. President. You will be  brought before this bar of justice, the House of Representatives, where  impeachment is the indictment that will bring you to justice.

So, it reads: ``Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United  States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.''

It goes on to read: ``Resolved, That Donald John Trump, President of  the United States, is an abuser of Presidential power who, if left in  office, will continue to promote the incitement of violence''--and he  has a done a job--I almost said ``a good job,'' but I hate to use  ``good'' in this context. He has ``engender[ed] invidious hate,  undermine[d] our democracy, and dissolve[d] our Republic, that he is  impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors, and that the following  Articles of Impeachment be exhibited to the United States Senate.''

They were first exhibited to the House. The House took a vote. One  hundred forty persons voted for the impeachment. We had another 47, I  believe, who chose to vote ``present.''

For these 140, I have the courage to present to you this document in  this fine piece of cover that has a very soft texture to it. We will  present this to you. I want to read what it says above the patriotic  140.

It reads: Patriotism means to stand.

Where do you stand in times of challenging controversy? Remember Dr.  King.

Patriotism means to stand by the country in times of challenging  controversy.

That is what patriotism means: Stand by the country. Patriotism means  to stand by the country. It does not mean to stand by the President.

Patriotism means to stand by the country. It does not mean to stand  by the President.

Dr. King, today we honor your profound words in the ultimate measure  of the man. As it was said at that time, the ultimate measure of the  person is not where the person stands in times of comfort and  convenience but where does a person stand in times of challenge and  controversy.

The answer is from Theodore Roosevelt. I am a bipartisan guy. The  answer is: Patriotism means to stand by the country. It does not mean  to stand by the President.

This is Dr. King's birthday. I thought it most appropriate to pay  tribute to the 140 patriotic Americans who took a stand.

For those who have concluded that there will not be impeachment: You  are wrong.

It is the only solution available to prevent the next Donald Trump,  the next would-be, from assuming the position that this Donald Trump  has taken and imposed the kinds of horrific atrocities on society that  this Donald Trump is the imposing.

We need to impeach right here and send it over to the Senate. The  Senate would have a trial. Impeach, convict--conviction takes place in  the Senate--and remove. The Senate has the power to do this. This is  the solution.

I understand that the network television programs, for the most  part--there are some exceptions, but for the most part, they stand with  Donald Trump. Donald Trump does not want to be impeached. He as much as  said so, and the networks don't want him impeached. They have said so.  I have listened to many persons associated with the networks, and they  said so. They don't want to see impeachment.

I differ with them. By the way, when you differ with them, they won't  let you say that. This is a free-speech country when people will allow  you to speak broadly on their networks. So they are not going to let  you do that. You won't see me on CNN. You won't see me on MSNBC, but  you will hear from me here as long as I am allowed to speak because I  just believe in speaking truth about power, not just speak truth to  power, but speak truth about power.

Speak truth to power, you say: Power, there is a problem. Let's solve  it.

Speak truth about power, you say: Power, there is a problem, and you  are it.

That is just as I did from that seat right over to my right when the  President was up at that podium and I told him he didn't have a mandate  to cut Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security.

The networks are a status quo institution for the most part. They  want to maintain things as they are. I am not a status quo  Representative. I want to see change, positive change, change that can  make a difference in the lives of people.

I tell you this, Mr. Speaker, if we don't speak up, stand up, and  meet the ultimate measure of the person that Dr. King calls to our  attention, it may be too late at some point within the next 3 years for  us to do so. Because this President is showing us that he intends to  become a dictator. To a certain extent, he is already, to a limited  extent, a dictator.

So we have to take back our power to declare war while we can before  it is too late. We have got to take back the authority in the  Constitution to have a separation of powers while we can before it is  too late. We have got to stand up to this President.

Dr. King, that is what you would have us do. I believe you would have  us take a stand.

I believe that Dr. King would not sit silently by and witness what  has taken place now and do it without taking a stand.

Not everybody has to take a stand to impeach. Some people decided  that they would peacefully protest. I am a peaceful protester. I will  stand by people who peacefully protest. I will not stand by people who  do not peacefully protest. If you introduce violence, then you just  lost me. I am not with you. It doesn't matter who you are, I am not  with you.

The ultimate measure of the person in times of challenge and  controversy is with the Constitution of the United States of America.  That is where I am, and that is where I stand. I assure you as I stand  here, I want you to know, Mr. Speaker, that we who believe that Dr.  King should be commemorated ought to commemorate his life respectfully.

There is nothing wrong with commemorating his life by engaging in  peaceful protest. There is nothing wrong with commemorating his life by  standing on the authority vested in the Constitution of the United  States of America which is imparted to us. The words are without us  they just become words. We give meaning to the Constitution.

So there is nothing wrong with taking that stand. Stand on the  Constitution of the United States of America. Dr. King, I know that is  what you would have us do.

That is what I encourage others to do.

I assure you, Dr. King, I am going to bring additional Articles of  Impeachment to a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives.