Congratulating Greg Parker, Retailer Executive of the Year


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Greg  Parker on being named 2025 Retailer Executive of the Year by  Convenience Store News.

Greg, the founder and CEO of Parker's Kitchen, has grown his business  from one store in 1976 to his 100th in a grand opening in April of  2025.

His brand has become a role model in business, being synonymously  described as clean, friendly, profitable, and philanthropic. Greg  exhibits the best characteristics of this award. He is a leader. He  positively impacts his community, and he strives for business  excellence.

He is often recognized for his significant philanthropic efforts,  recently donating $20 million to the Savannah Community Foundation.  This generous donation is just one of many throughout his successful  career.

Mr. Speaker, the First District of Georgia appreciates Greg and his  many years of friendship.               Savannah: Our Nation's Top Honeymoon Destination

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Savannah's  recent distinction as one of the Nation's top honeymoon destinations.  The city was ranked sixth overall, accompanied by renowned areas such  as Palm Springs, Napa Valley, and Miami.

Savannah's downtown offers visitors a plethora of experiences. The  Savannah Historic District offers preserved architecture and museums  for history enthusiasts. Broughton Street offers a wide range of  shopping options, featuring a mix of small, local shops and larger  commercial retailers.

If visitors prefer a more relaxing experience, Tybee Island is just  15 minutes away. On Tybee Island, vacationers can enjoy the serene  beaches, outdoor activities, and coastal relaxation.

Savannah's distinctive blend of cultural richness and coastal beauty  makes it an ideal destination for newlyweds.                            Honoring Robert Headley

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Mr. Robert  Headley, for receiving the Student Organization Leader of the Year  Award at Georgia Southern University.

This award is presented annually to a student who demonstrates  exceptional leadership, embodies their organization's values, and  positively impacts student life on campus.

As president of the Interfraternity Council during the 2024-2025  academic year, he played an essential role in advancing Greek life and  fostering collaboration among Greek organizations. Robert is an  outstanding young man who has consistently excelled in all of the  mentioned areas.

I congratulate Robert on this remarkable achievement. I wish him the  best in his future endeavors.                           Honoring Nicholas Pappas

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the late  Nicholas Pappas, a distinguished gentleman who devoted more than 30  years to the restaurant scene in Savannah, Georgia.

As a longtime owner of the Olympia Cafe, he united locals and  tourists with his cherished recipes, exceptional culinary skills, and  warm personality. Under his leadership, the restaurant gained  significant acclaim, being ranked in the top 10 percent of restaurants  worldwide by Tripadvisor in 2024.

Mr. Pappas was more than just a restaurant owner. He was a loving  father and a grandfather, a mentor and a role model, and an exemplary  civil servant. His legacy will live on through Olympia Cafe, where  countless memories and joy were brought to many. He set a superb  example for others to follow through his welcoming manner and  unwavering work ethic.

Today, we celebrate Nicholas Pappas' life. The community is  strengthened in the one-of-a-kind service that he provided to the  people of Savannah.