Mourning the Loss of John Reginald Murphy


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to mourn the loss of  John Reginald ``Reg'' Murphy, who unfortunately passed away last  November.

Mr. Murphy was a true Renaissance man who lived an extraordinary life  guided by curiosity, integrity, engagement, and helping those in need.

Mr. Murphy was raised in Gainesville and attended Mercer University,  where he began his journalism career. Throughout his career, Mr. Murphy  experienced success working in a variety of esteemed publications,  including The Macon Telegraph and The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shortly after, he was chosen as a Nieman fellow at Harvard University  in 1959.

Mr. Murphy went on to serve as the editor and publisher of the San  Francisco Examiner, and then he became the publisher and CEO of The  Baltimore Sun.

Throughout his life and career, Mr. Murphy stayed true to his morals  and strong ethical compass.

Mr. Murphy is survived by his wife, Diana; daughters, Karen and  Susan; two grandsons; a sister; and three nieces and nephews.

Mr. Murphy will always be remembered as a humble, approachable,  gentle, and kind man.                         Recognizing Marlon Lawrence

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Marlon  Lawrence, a custodian at Mary Lee Clark Elementary School in Camden  County for being named the South Region winner in the Georgia  Leadership Institute for School Improvement Hidden Heroes Campaign.

This recognition celebrates unsung leaders in education whose  dedication makes a profound impact on their schools and their  communities.

Marlon's hard work and commitment to maintaining a clean, welcoming,  and inclusive environment have helped create a space where students and  staff can thrive.

This achievement reflects the collective teamwork at Mary Lee Clark  Elementary where everyone works together to ensure student success.

Principal Rika Dow has praised Marlon for his unwavering dedication  and innovative approach, making him a model for others to follow.

On behalf of the community and as his Congressman, I commend Marlon  Lawrence for his exceptional contributions, and I thank him for the  example he sets.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Marlon on this well-deserved recognition.                   Honoring the Life of Ms. Elizabeth Pryor

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of  Ms. Elizabeth Katherine Pryor, a civil rights activist, educator, and  pillar in the Savannah community, who passed away last month.

Ms. Pryor was an activist, joining the civil rights movement at a  young age where she proudly participated in organized sit-ins, marches,  and peaceful protests in the city of Savannah.

After graduating from Savannah State College and Georgia Southern  University, Ms. Pryor served as an educator in the Savannah-Chatham  County Public School District for more than four decades.

As a lifelong member of the NAACP, Ms. Pryor also was a strong  proponent of voting rights. She was also among the activists who were  instrumental in the renaming of West Broad Street to Martin Luther  King, Jr. Boulevard.

Ms. Pryor served on the Board of Directors of the Ralph Mark Gilbert  Civil Rights Museum and was the former grand marshal for the annual  Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Parade.

Ms. Pryor is survived by her two daughters and many other beloved  relatives and friends. Ms. Pryor will always be remembered for her  dedication to advocating for justice, change, and equality.                 Honoring the Life of Joseph Rylon Wills, Jr.

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of  Mr. Joseph Rylon Wills, Jr., a man of faith, service, and dedication.

Born in 1957 in Plant City, Florida, Joe was raised by his loving  parents, Rylon and Gail. He was active in church and sports,  demonstrating a commitment to faith and teamwork from a young age.

In 1982, he married Stacy, his lifelong partner, and together they  built a beautiful life, raising three wonderful sons, Patrick, Timothy,  and David.

Joe earned a business degree from Augusta University and had a  distinguished career in hospitality and real estate. He worked at  Augusta National Golf Club, Sea Island Company, and Brunswick Country  Club. Joe later became a top producing realtor, specializing in luxury  properties.

A devoted church leader, Joe served as an elder and deacon,  supporting organizations like Manna House of Brunswick and contributing  to community events. He was known for his generosity, kindness, and  willingness to help others, always offering a listening ear and  thoughtful advice.

Joe found joy in family, good friends, music, cycling, and long walks  on the beach with his dogs. His legacy of service, faith, and love for  his community will continue to inspire all those who knew him.