Promises Made, Promises Kept


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam Speaker, with the One Big Beautiful Bill  Act, we delivered on President Trump's domestic agenda and provided the  largest tax cut in American history. That is because, as Republicans,  we believe this money belongs to hardworking Americans, not to  Washington bureaucrats.

I couldn't be prouder of this Conference and the Trump administration  for working together in the interests of American citizens across our  Nation. Together, we delivered no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, a  doubled child tax credit, relief for our seniors, and so much more.

In Georgia, families will keep an additional $3,000 of their own  money in 2026 thanks to the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. Republicans are  putting food back on the table. Georgia's citizens are now able to  afford several more weeks of groceries because of tax cuts.

This Conference and the Trump administration are working for American  citizens, and it has been truly life-changing for many people.

This August, I had the chance to get boots on the ground and see  firsthand the impact of this bill on hardworking Georgians. Just the  other week, I was eating at a Georgia restaurant, and I asked my server  how no tax on tips would impact her life. Do you know what she told me?  She said she can finally start saving for her daughter's college  education without worrying whether she can still afford groceries at  the end of the month.

She is not alone. I have asked others in the tip and overtime  industry similar questions. I have also talked with folks who don't  follow politics closely, as well as those who identify as Democrats.  Every single time, they are pleasantly surprised to learn how much this  bill helps because, for the last 2 months, Democrats have been flooding  the airwaves with lies about the One Big Beautiful Bill Act because  they are embarrassed they couldn't vote for it. Do you know why they  couldn't vote for it? It was purely out of hatred for President Donald  J. Trump.

Democrats voted against the middle class, while Republicans voted for  it. Democrats voted against the American Dream, while we fought and  will continue to fight to protect it.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act is an investment in America's  families, America's workers, and America's future. We are lifting up  the middle class, restoring fairness, and proving once again that,  under Republican leadership, the American Dream is alive and well.