Recognizing Uga 2025 Boren Award Winners


Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  University of Georgia and its remarkable students for achieving a  national distinction in international education.

UGA now ranks second in the Nation for the prestigious Boren Awards,  a testament to its academic excellence in global engagement.

These awards help support students who are studying languages and  cultures critical to national security and U.S. interests. In 2025,  seven UGA students were selected, securing funding for their education  and creating a pathway to public service.

I congratulate Jack, Nicholas, Sara, Sadie, Madison, Mark, and  Jessica on their well-deserved achievement.

Their work embodies the values and work ethic of the University of  Georgia. The university's success reflects the amazing work of its  faculty, staff, and students.                            Cheers to Nic Wallace

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Nic  Wallace, whose talent and creativity have earned him national  recognition as the 2025 World Class U.S. Bartender of the Year.

Mr. Wallace, the bars and spirits manager at the Sea Island Resort,  received the highest honor in American mixology, awarded through a  rigorous competition that tests the Nation's top bartenders on skill,  storytelling, and hospitality.

Among 30 national finalists, Mr. Wallace emerged as the champion  after a series of challenges, including speed rounds, signature  cocktail pairings, and original recipe presentations.

As Georgia's sole finalist, he embraced that responsibility with  pride and excelled in all aspects.

For more than a decade, Nic has pursued this title with determination  and focus. As he himself said: ``No matter how much you want something,  no matter how long it takes, you can get it.''

Nic will now represent the United States in the global finals in  Toronto later this year.

I congratulate Nic on this achievement.         Honoring a Remarkable Veteran: Andrea ``Fearless'' Smith Brown

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a  remarkable veteran from Savannah, Georgia, Ms. Andrea Smith Brown,  known by many as ``Fearless.''

Andrea is a 60-year-young Army veteran whose journey of healing from  PTSD has taken a courageous and inspiring turn.

For decades, she had been healing but found a breakthrough in her  recovery in an unlikely place. What began as a hobby has become her  therapy and a safe place where fear has turned to freedom. She uses her  motorcycle as the vehicle for her fearless healing.

She defended her nickname by conquering the Pikes Peak summit,  completing the 18-mile trek more than 14,000 feet in the air.

Last month, she undertook a solo cross-country ride, her travels  stretching over 5,000 miles. She is now one of only 16 people worldwide  to complete the I-10 End to End Ride alone.

``Fearless'' isn't just her nickname. It is a legacy she is building  with every mile.

Mr. Speaker, today we salute Andrea Smith Brown for her service not  only in uniform but also her continued devotion to others by showing  what it means to serve, heal, and keep moving forward.                           Recognizing Dr. Jim Hotz

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr. Jim  Hotz, a Georgia resident who has dedicated 47 years to providing  medical care to those in rural communities.

When Dr. Hotz began practicing in Leesburg, Georgia, he was not only  the only doctor in the county but the first they had seen in nearly 40  years.

Shocked to see so many people suffering from diseases no longer  considered to be a widespread threat, such as tuberculosis, Dr. Hotz  made it his mission to remedy the lack of accessible medical care that  plagued rural Georgia. From snake bites to cervical cancer, Dr. Hotz  treated thousands of patients who otherwise would have been forced to  commute across counties for treatment, a trip that could cost them  their lives.

In addition to nearly 50 years of medical service, Dr. Hotz founded  Albany Area Primary Health Care to assist rural communities in  obtaining accessible healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, Dr. Hotz represents the best of compassion and community  service, and it is an honor to recognize him and his many  accomplishments.