Recognizing Kathy Quigley


Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of Kathy Quigley as  she retires from the South Shore YMCA. Kathy is a true community  leader, who has tirelessly advocated for disadvantaged communities in  Quincy and the South Shore throughout her remarkable 30-year career.  Whether during her time with the South Shore YMCA, Quincy Community  Action, or DOVE, she has dedicated her career to working for the  betterment of her community.

In 2007, Kathy oversaw the old St. Boniface Church's transition into  the new Germantown Neighborhood Center in Quincy. Kathy then went on to  lead the center, which serves over 2,000 people annually, including  hundreds of young people.

Under Kathy's leadership, the Neighborhood Center became a beacon of  hope for the Germantown community. Today, the center is home to a food  pantry, music studio, countless youth activities, and women's  empowerment programs.

Throughout her career, Kathy relentlessly pursued funding to support  her community, including working with private industry to secure  college scholarships for Germantown High School seniors.

Kathy's list of accomplishments range from grand gestures--like in  2011, when she raised the necessary funds to allow the annual Quincy  MLK breakfast to continue--to what may be seen as more minor acts of  kindness--such as helping an elderly neighbor keep their lights on or a  family receive groceries for the week. Kathy has always made sure that  no one goes without during the holidays, ensuring that thousands of  families in Quincy and the South Shore receive gifts and food during  the season.

On March 30, 2025, Kathy will retire from the YMCA. Over the last 30  years, Kathy has dedicated her life to the betterment of others. We are  deeply grateful for her service. The world could use a few more Kathy  Quigleys.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to honor Kathy Quigley, and I ask that my  colleagues join me in recognizing her extraordinary career and thanking  her for her years of service to the Quincy and South Shore community.