Defending Education Transparency and Ending Rogue Regimes Engaging in Nefarious Transactions Act


Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, America's enemies will stop at nothing to  destroy us, and they don't care how they do it. These enemies would  stoop so low as to target our young people. For years, countries like  the People's Republic of China have used our own universities to  advance agendas that hurt American security.

Aside from the state of Qatar, there is probably no other country in  the world that finances U.S. colleges and universities more than the  People's Republic of China. They use this all-access pass to steal our  intellectual property, abuse our student visa programs, and prop up  Communist-inspired Confucius Institutes.

This places the Chinese authorities in a real position of influence  among our young people, all the more so because our own government  doesn't try to hold our colleges and universities accountable to the  basic disclosure standards.

A 2019 Senate report found that up to 70 percent of all institutions  failed to comply with what are called section 117 disclosure  requirements. Those that do not comply with section 117 substantially  underreport their foreign donations and contracts.

Under current law, if gifts and contracts, either individual or  combined, from an originating country meet or exceed $250,000, these  donations must be reported to the Department of Education twice a year.

By failing to enforce our laws, we are signaling to our enemies,  especially China, that we don't care if they use and abuse the American  higher education system. As a result, we really don't have a clear idea  of the extent of China's influence campaign against the youth of  America.

Parliamentary Inquiry

Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chairman, when mom and dad send their kids to college,  they expect them to get a good education and a return on investment,  not to be indoctrinated by our enemies.

The DETERRENT Act does a very valuable service by requiring proper  reporting and ensuring that four countries, Iran, Russia, North Korea,  and China, who actively seek to undermine our sovereignty, are  designated as ``foreign countries of concern.'' Think about that list.  This designation means that, for these countries, the foreign gift  reporting threshold is zero.

Again, Mr. Chairman, I urge that if we know we have an adversary, we  should have access to all of their influence peddling in our country  that is targeting our youth so we have the full scale and scope of what  they are doing.

There is no country better than China at money laundering. If we  ensure that their reporting threshold is zero for the People's Republic  of China, that only solves one part of the equation. What happens when  the leaders of the PRC attempt to continue their malign influence  through Hong Kong or Macau? It could really marginalize the admirable  intent of this legislation and could only temporarily, potentially,  derail the PRC when we know they are going to try to get around it. We  know they are going to launder money through other means.

We have to clear this up, shore this up, and further clarify.

Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Chair, I emphasize that we are talking about countries like Iran,  Russia, North Korea, and China. Whether it is a bag of doughnuts or a  bag of money, we know they are over here. We know they are doing it. It  is not being fully reported. Mistakes are being made. They are trying  to influence and brainwash our future leaders of this country.

We need to be proactive. We need to send a message that enough is  enough. The reference to doughnuts, so be it. Whether it is a bag of  doughnuts or a bag of money, if they are over here with malign intent,  the American people have the right to know about it.

Those universities should be put on notice. If you are in bed with  the enemy, you should be put on notice. If you are allowing subversion  of our country on your campus, the American people should know it.

I don't see why anybody would have a problem with this. It is clear.  We are talking about national security at a time when our adversaries  are on the move.

I will note my sincere gratitude to both the chairman of the  Education and Workforce Committee as well as the committee staff for  working with my team on these amendments. This amendment ensures that  special administrative regions of China, including Hong Kong and Macau,  are covered under the definition of a ``foreign country of concern'' in  this bill. Again, we know they are going to launder money through those  areas.

It is a commonsense edit that secures American colleges and  universities against the number one existential threat to our way of  life: the Communist Party of China.

Mr. Chair, again, this is a no-nonsense amendment. This makes sure  that we cover our flank, that we identify those areas where we know  that other countries can launder money through to influence our  campuses. We saw it in the spring. We saw it over this past year, the  bad behavior on college campuses. We have to make sure that this money  isn't getting through dark channels, back channels, and influencing our  universities and our youth.

Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of my amendment, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, this amendment ensures that Chinese military  companies are included as foreign entities of concern for the purposes  of this bill, which would subject such companies to a strict zero- dollar threshold for gifts and contracts.

The section 1260H list was established in the FY 2021 National  Defense Authorization Act and has since been used as a blacklist for  Chinese military companies that are directly or indirectly owned,  controlled, or beneficially owned by the People's Liberation Army or  the Central Military Commission of the Chinese Communist Party.

Needless to say, these companies aren't here to be our friends. They  hate us, and they want to harm us. They are here to steal our  technology and advance China's military modernization efforts. Even so,  there are going to be colleges in this country that get so captivated  by a dollar figure that they would salivate at the chance to work with  our enemies.

Some of America's most sensitive property is housed or developed at  our universities, and if there is a whiff of partnership between the  institution of higher education and a Chinese military company, the  American people deserve to know the details of every last gift and  contract.

Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, the definition of a ``foreign entity of  concern'' in this bill would include any company subject to the  jurisdiction or direction of a government like China's. While  constructive, there is still nothing in the underlying text of this  bill and nothing within the definition of a ``foreign entity of  concern'' that would automatically refer to the section 1260H list of  Chinese military companies.

Since the section 1260H list is something that the Secretary of  Defense is instructed to update, it is possible that there is a natural  delay as to when Chinese military companies are designated as foreign  entities of concern for the purposes of this act.

This amendment provides clarity and ensures that any U.S. college or  university entering into a contract with or receiving a donation from a  section 1260H list company is required to first receive a section 117A  waiver from the Department of Education.

Again, the reporting threshold for foreign entities of concern is  zero, meaning that a gift or contract of any size or scope has to be  reported.

Mr. Chair, this is about accountability. We know that they are here  to steal our secrets. We know that they want to undermine us. As we go  into the next phase of warfare that is not just on the battlefield but  is cyber war and its capabilities therein, we know that China is  aggressive in these spaces. They are in our universities. They are on  our campuses. They want to steal this information. We have to have a  mechanism of accountability and reporting so that we know who is doing  what and where.

It is that simple. It will require universities to pick their  partners carefully and make sure they are safeguarding the very  technologies that they are being entrusted to house on behalf of the  U.S. Government and the U.S. people.

We don't need to enable the Chinese military through modernization,  weaponization, or their attack on us, our Constitution, or our way of  life. All this does is require reporting. This isn't calling every  Chinese individual a bad actor but is acknowledging the fact that they  are our enemy and not our friend, and they want to supplant us as the  sole world power.

Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of my amendment, and I yield back the  balance of my time.