Don't Mess with My Home Appliances Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700168/dont-mess-with-my-home-appliances-act


Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Pallone for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, here are three simple facts. Number one, the cost of  living in America today is the number one concern on the minds of  Americans. Number two, increasing energy prices are a major factor  causing an increase in American families' cost of living. Number three,  energy-efficient appliances and appliance standards save Americans more  than $500 in energy bills per year. They are also good for our  environment.

More efficient appliances will not only save money, but they conserve  water, conserve energy, and reduce overall emissions that are killing  our planet. This bill, without an amendment, would gut the program that  sets these standards and pave the way for the administration to repeal  existing standards.

It is bad for our wallets. It is bad for our planet. It is just bad  policy. I cannot vote for the proposed bill as written, and I urge my  colleagues to do the same.

Mr. Speaker, that is why, at the appropriate time, I will offer a  motion to recommit this bill back to the committee. If the House rules  permitted, I would have offered the motion with an important amendment  to this bill.

My amendment would require the Secretary of Energy to certify that  revoking existing energy standards will not negatively impact  consumers. It simply requires that the Secretary of Energy certify that  getting rid of standards such as these would not increase costs or  increase greenhouse gas emissions. This ensures that we are protecting  American families from further harm to their wallets and to the air  they breathe.

Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in voting  for the motion to recommit.

Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.

Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.