Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699577/consolidated-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. WOMACK. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the consolidated  appropriations package before the House today.

Passage of this legislation means that Congress will have provided  full-year funding to more than 90 percent of the Federal Government.  This marks an important departure from the unfortunate norm in which  Congress too often fails to meet its Article I responsibility.

There are many highlights worth noting in this package.

In providing for the common defense, this legislation strategically  increases funding to ensure that our military continues to be the most  lethal in the world, while also ensuring that our allies have the tools  they need to help us defend democracy.

The package also makes investments in biomedical research and small  business development. Together, these measures and more support a more  prosperous America.

Madam Speaker, as chairman of the Transportation, Housing, and Urban  Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee, my division of this  legislation cuts back unfocused spending and reduces bureaucratic  bloat.

Before I get into specifics, let me thank my Subcommittee Ranking  Member  Jim Clyburn for his partnership. He has been a great friend,  and he has been an invaluable asset and partner through this process. I  appreciate his dedication to crafting this division of the bill and to  advancing the entire package.

The T-HUD division invests in what matters to the American people:  economic growth, safe and efficient mobility, and housing  affordability.

We prioritize aviation safety by allocating over $22 billion for the  Federal Aviation Administration. These dollars will fully fund air  traffic control operations and enable the hiring of 2,500 new  controllers. It will jump-start the modernization of outdated  facilities and equipment, strengthening the safety and reliability of  our national airspace system.

We provide more than $64 billion for highways, taking care to send  the overwhelming majority of these dollars back to the States because  it is at the State level where the best decisions are made, not here in  Washington.

We also provide funding to address our Nation's shortage of safe and  available truck parking. America's truckers work tirelessly to keep our  grocery stores stocked, our packages delivered, and our supply chains  moving. Ensuring they have a safe place to park between long drives is  common sense, and this bill delivers on that promise.

At the same time, we preserve housing assistance for the most  vulnerable, such as youth aging out of our Nation's foster care system,  while promoting affordability through flexible, locally driven programs  that allow communities to expand housing supply without the  micromanagement of the Federal Government.

It does all these things while saving millions of hard-earned  American taxpayer dollars.

I thank my subcommittee staff: Avery, Andrew, Doug, and Mary Beth for  their hard work and diligence. They have been indispensable throughout  this process. Please know that I am deeply grateful to have each one of  them on my team.

Mr. WOMACK. Madam Speaker, I am going to take that 30 seconds and  brag on this guy right here,   Tom Cole. He has reengineered, somewhat  reinvented a lost appropriations process, and I am eternally grateful.  I know I speak for the American people in thanking Mr. Cole for his  leadership.

I thank my colleagues for this bipartisanship that has been exhibited  by this package. A ``yes'' vote today takes us one step closer to  restoring the confidence that the American people should have in this  Congress.