Recognizing Doug Mcmillon


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698690/recognizing-doug-mcmillon


Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I also offer my personal thanks and  congratulations to my dear friend, Steny Hoyer, on the announcement  that he has made today. We wish him the very best.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a great friend and fellow  northwest Arkansan, Doug McMillon, who steps away at the end of this  month from a 12-year run as chief executive officer of Fortune 1,  Walmart, in Bentonville, Arkansas.

Doug's is a story of incredible American success. Much like the  company he has led, his journey started with humble beginnings.

At 16, Doug's family moved from Jonesboro, Arkansas, to Bentonville.  The eldest of three children, Doug was a guard on the Bentonville High  School Tigers basketball team. I had the privilege of watching him play  high school sports with no way of knowing where his dreams and  ambitions would take him.

He began his career at Walmart as an hourly associate in 1984,  picking orders and unloading trailers in the warehouse. He attended the  University of Arkansas and worked part time at the Bank of Bentonville.  Later, he enrolled in the MBA program at the University of Tulsa.

He later became an assistant manager at Walmart Store 894 in Tulsa,  and that launched a career with the Nation's leading retailer, with  promotions to CEO of Sam's Club in 2005, Walmart International in 2009,  and finally CEO of the entire enterprise in 2014.

With a market cap of $195 billion, under his tenure Walmart's value  has increased by more than 350 percent and a current market cap of  around $900 billion. His leadership in the company's digitization and  strong e-commerce platforms was a major shift for the company from that  as a brick-and-mortar company to an omnichannel retailer.

Supply chain automation in warehouses and major pay increases for  hourly associates were instrumental in his visionary leadership and  success.

Mr. Speaker, I could speak volumes about Doug McMillon's legacy.  Suffice it to say, his quiet and patient demeanor, his bold and  innovative leadership, and his commitment to the shareholders and  associates of Walmart make him one of America's true success stories,  and not only that, but his spirit of charity and funding opportunities  for young entrepreneurs and in healthcare for fellow citizens.

I am proud of what he has accomplished and the inspiration he has  given to thousands of people who have had the privilege of serving  under his leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I know Doug McMillon well enough to know that he would  be embarrassed by all of this fuss that we are making about him. That  is who he is, but this tribute is well deserved. Few among us have  lived the American Dream like he has, and what a difference he has  made.

Mr. Speaker, I say to Doug and Shelley: Well done. I know I speak for  a lot of people. I thank him for his example of selfless service and  his commitment to helping his fellow man. Godspeed and may he enjoy a  well-earned retirement.