Tipped Employee Protection Act


Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Walberg for this  opportunity.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my legislation, the Tipped Employee  Protection Act, which clarifies the definition of a tipped employee,  providing long-term certainty for the service industry and, ultimately,  protecting tipped employees' right to earn a living, a good living.

Mr. Speaker, our local service industry businesses, like the family- owned restaurant down the street, both reflect and shape the culture in  each of our communities.

These establishments aren't just places to enjoy a good meal. They  are where we foster and grow relationships. From catching up with  friends to shaking hands on new business to marking some of life's  biggest accomplishments--birthdays, anniversaries, graduations, and  promotions. Where do we do this? We do this down at the local  restaurant.

Many eateries like the ones I just described make their home in my  own area of northwest Arkansas. Some of my favorites include Neal's  Cafe in Springdale. By the way, I should give credit to its owner,  Micah Neal, for helping provide the inspiration for the legislation  that we are talking about here today. Another place is Herman's, an  iconic rib house in Fayetteville.

Mr. Speaker, I could go on and on, naming some of my area's most  popular restaurants. What do they have in common? To begin with they  have great food, but it is the hardworking people behind the counter or  taking your table order who truly make these businesses landmarks in  our communities. We all have them.

The bill I stand here in support of today, Mr. Speaker, is about  protecting these workers. Restaurants, most of which are small  businesses, operate on very thin margins. The tip credit system is the  foundation on which these small businesses operate.

The tip credit, or the tipped wage, has been part of the Fair Labor  Standards Act for decades. It allows employers to pay tipped workers a  base wage with tips--handsome tips, in many cases--making up the rest  of those workers' earnings.

This system empowers tipped employees to maximize their earning  potential. In fact, research shows that servers at full-service  restaurants earn over twice--let me say it again, earn over twice--the  Federal minimum wage. According to the National Restaurant Association,  tipped servers nationally make a median income of $27 an hour, with the  highest paid workers in the $41 an hour range.

The tip credit also offers flexibility for operators to invest in  their businesses and staff. Without it, restaurant operators would be  forced to make some very tough decisions, such as raising prices on  their customers or reducing workers' hours, maybe even cutting jobs  altogether.

Unfortunately, regulatory overreach has put the tipped credit system  at risk, creating uncertainty for restaurant operators. Different  administrations have issued conflicting rules and guidance, producing a  regulatory roller coaster for restaurant owners and their staff. This  instability makes it difficult for owners and operators to make long- term business plans. Antiworker efforts that chip away at the tipped  wage altogether interfere with employees' hard-earned paychecks and  livelihoods.

My bill, Mr. Speaker, the Tipped Employee Protection Act, provides a  commonsense solution. It puts an end to hurtful regulatory confusion  and litigation. It preserves the tipped wage and protections in the  Fair Labor Standards Act. It provides clarity and simplicity in  categorizing workers as tipped employees. It seeks to maintain a  consistent regulatory environment.

To put it simply, my legislation will protect the hard-earned  paychecks of tipped employees across the country and right at home in  my Third District of Arkansas, the people who work day in and day out  to put food on the tables of your favorite restaurant, as well as on  their own kitchen tables at home.

This bill, Mr. Speaker, is how we deliver bigger paychecks to our  constituents back home.

One other thing, Mr. Speaker. If you ever find yourself in  Springdale, Arkansas, at Neal's Cafe, order some apple salad. You will  thank me later.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I urge its passage.