Baby Changing on Board Act


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 248) to require Amtrak to install baby changing tables in  bathrooms on passenger rail cars.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 248

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Baby Changing on Board       Act''.       SEC. 2. INSTALLATION OF BABY CHANGING TABLES ON AMTRAK                     TRAINS.

(a) In General.--Chapter 243 of title 49, United States       Code, is amended by inserting after section 24313 the       following:       ``Sec. 24314. Baby changing tables

``(a) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) ADA-compliant restroom.--The term `ADA-compliant       restroom' means a restroom       that complies with the requirements set forth in section       242(a) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42       U.S.C. 12162(a)).

``(2) Baby changing table.--The term `baby changing table'       means an elevated, freestanding structure generally designed       to support and retain a child with a body weight of up to 30       pounds in a horizontal position for the purpose of allowing       an individual to change the child's diaper, including pull-      out or drop-down changing surfaces.

``(3) Covered passenger rail train.--The term `covered       passenger rail train'--

``(A) means a passenger rail train that--

``(i) is owned and operated by the National Railroad       Passenger Corporation (commonly known as `Amtrak'); and

``(ii) was solicited for purchase after the date of the       enactment of the Baby Changing on Board Act for use by       Amtrak; and

``(B) does not include any passenger rail train that Amtrak       operates, but does not own.

``(b) Baby Changing Tables.--

``(1) In general.--All covered passenger rail trains shall       have a baby changing table in at least one restroom in each       car, including in an ADA-compliant restroom.

``(2) Signage.--Each restroom described in paragraph (1)       shall clearly indicate with signage the presence of a baby       changing table and such baby changing tables shall be clearly       identified with signage.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The chapter analysis for chapter       243 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting       after the item relating to section 24313 the following:  ``24314. Baby changing tables.''.

Mr. EZELL.  248.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 248, the Baby Changing on Board Act is effective,  bipartisan legislation intended to help parents better care for their  children when traveling.

The bill requires Amtrak to install baby changing tables in all ADA- accessible restrooms on trains owned by Amtrak. These facilities are  common on other transportation modes, including airlines. They are  likewise necessary on intercity passenger rails.

The bipartisan bill is a long, overdue improvement to Amtrak service.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 248 is long overdue. It provides help for American  families traveling with young children. It simply makes sense for  Amtrak to comply with ADA requirements, especially as a recipient of  Federal funding.

I was glad to see the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure  favorably report this measure, and I look forward to the House doing  so, as well.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.