Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025


Mr. EZELL. Madam Chairman, I rise today to support this legislation  which was introduced by Chairman Graves along with myself and Ranking  Members Larsen and Carbajal.

This bill supports the efforts of the Coast Guard to protect the  United States' waters, interdict drugs, stop human trafficking, and  promote maritime safety.

The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025 authorizes funding for the  Coast Guard through fiscal year 2029 and makes critical investments to  enable the service to meet its growing mission demands.

As the Coast Guard works to implement the service's future vision of  Force Design 2028 and procure new vessels, aircraft, and shoreside  infrastructure with the historic investments made in the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act, this legislation includes accountability for those  investments and modernizes the contracting process within the service.

As the Coast Guard looks to grow its forces, this legislation will  support the Coast Guard's efforts to boost recruiting and retention  while supporting President Trump's vision to strengthen the domestic  maritime base and boost the pool of qualified United States merchant  mariners who can mobilize during times of crisis to operate sealift  assets.

The legislation also gives the service an important voice by  establishing a Coast Guard service secretary, as envisioned in my  legislation, H.R. 2546, the Secretary of the Coast Guard Act of 2025.

This measure also makes important reforms following the revelations  of Operation Fouled Anchor, which was a report detailing improper  handling of sexual assaults within the service. As a sheriff and a  firsthand law enforcement officer, I have seen the harmful effects that  happens to these victims.

I am pleased that the bill before us strengthens protections for  members of the Coast Guard from sexual assault, provides support to  victims, and increases transparency within the service about the manner  in which such cases are handled.

Madam Speaker, I appreciate the work of Chairman Graves on this  legislation along with Ranking Member Larsen and Subcommittee Ranking  Member Carbajal, and I urge my colleagues to support this bill.