Compressed Gas Cylinder Safety and Oversight Improvements Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692179/compressed-gas-cylinder-safety-and-oversight-improvements-act-of-2025


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1182) to require the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate  regulations relating to the approval of foreign manufacturers of  cylinders, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1182

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,            SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Compressed Gas Cylinder       Safety and Oversight Improvements Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REGULATION OF FOREIGN MANUFACTURERS OF CYLINDERS USED                     IN TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.

(a) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Cylinder.--The term ``cylinder'' means any cylinder       specified under any of sections 178.36 through 178.68 of       title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor       regulations).

(2) Foreign manufacturer of cylinders; fmoc.--The term       ``foreign manufacturer of cylinders'' or ``FMOC'' means an       entity that manufactures cylinders outside of the United       States that are intended to be represented, marked,       certified, or sold as qualified for use in transporting a       hazardous material in commerce in the United States.

(3) In good standing.--The term ``in good standing'', with       respect to an FMOC, means that the FMOC--

(A) is approved by the Secretary pursuant to section       107.807 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or a       successor regulation); and

(B) has demonstrated 3 years of compliance with--

(i) part 107 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or       successor regulations); and

(ii) chapter 51 of title 49, United States Code.

(4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of Transportation.

(b) Approval of Foreign Manufacturers of Cylinders.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary shall promulgate regulations       to provide that an approval provided to an FMOC pursuant to       section 107.807 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or       a successor regulation), shall be for a period of not longer       than 1 year, except as provided under paragraph (2).

(2) 5-year approval.--The Secretary may provide a 5-year       approval of an FMOC pursuant to section 107.807 of title 49,       Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation), if       the following requirements are met:

(A) The FMOC attests that none of the cylinders made by the       FMOC are prohibited from entry to the United States under       section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).

(B) The FMOC certifies that--

(i) the information provided pursuant to subsection (e) is       accurate; and

(ii) the FMOC has a proactive responsibility to inform the       Secretary if any such information materially changes.

(C) The Secretary determines that the FMOC is in good       standing.

(3) Facility inspections.--

(A) Definition of obstructs.--In this paragraph, the term       ``obstructs'' means taking actions that are known, or       reasonably should be known, to prevent, hinder, or impede an       inspection.

(B) Penalties.--The Secretary may suspend or terminate an       approval of an FMOC if the FMOC obstructs or prevents the       Secretary from carrying out an inspection under section       107.807(c) of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or a       successor regulation).

(4) Interaction with other statutes, agreements,       regulations.--Nothing in this section may be construed to       prevent the harmonization of cylinder standards otherwise       authorized by law.

(5) Other cause for suspension or termination.--The       Secretary may suspend or terminate an approval of an FMOC on       determination that the FMOC knowingly or intentionally       misrepresented responses to the Secretary required by law,       including under subsection (e).

(c) Reevaluation by Request for Related Violations.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall promulgate such       regulations as are necessary to establish a process, as       determined by the Secretary, for any interested party to       request a reevaluation of the approval of FMOC cylinders       under section 107.807 of title 49, Code of Federal       Regulations (or a successor regulation), to review the       accuracy and safety of the actions of the FMOC.

(2) Petition for reevaluation.--The regulations promulgated       under paragraph (1) shall allow an interested party to file a       petition if that party has evidence of inaccurate, changed,       or fraudulent attestations or responses made by an FMOC to       the Secretary under subsection (e).

(d) Notice and Comment for Applications by Foreign       Manufacturers of Cylinders.--On receipt of an application for       approval under section 107.807 of title 49, Code of Federal       Regulations (or a successor regulation), the Secretary       shall--

(1) timely publish notification of the application on the       website of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety       Administration; and

(2) provide 30 days for public comment on the application       prior to approval.

(e) Additional Questions To Ensure Safety and Compliance       With Dot Processes.--

(1) Additional questions.--The Secretary shall require, as       part of an application for approval pursuant to section       107.807 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or a       successor regulation), that the applicant answer the       following questions:

(A) Whether the FMOC applying, or any entity controlling       more than 10 percent of that FMOC, has ever been subject to a       civil monetary penalty under title 49, United States Code,       relating to any actions carried out as an approved FMOC or       during the application for approval under that section.

(B) Whether the FMOC applying, or any entity controlling       more than 10 percent of that FMOC, has been delinquent in the       payment of any civil monetary penalties or other fines or       fees under title 49, United States Code.

(C) Whether the FMOC applying, or any entity controlling       more than 10 percent of that FMOC, is subject to the Do Not       Pay Initiative established under section 3354 of title 31,       United States Code, as of the date of the application.

(D) Whether the FMOC applying, or any entity controlling       more than 10 percent of that FMOC, is listed in the Military       End User List of the Department of Commerce as of the date of       the application.

(E) Whether the FMOC applying, or any entity controlling       more than 10 percent of that FMOC, is identified by the       Department of Defense as an entity listed under section 1237       of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for       Fiscal Year 1999 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; Public Law 105-261) as       of the date of application.

(F) Whether the FMOC applying, or any entity controlling       more than 10 percent of that FMOC, has been found guilty of a       criminal penalty or assessed a civil penalty under section       1760 of division A of the John S. McCain National Defense       Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (50 U.S.C. 4819).

(G) Whether the FMOC applying, or any entity controlling       more than 10 percent of that FMOC, is subject to a final       antidumping or countervailing duty order from the Department       of Commerce as of the date of application.

(2) Denial of application.--The Secretary may deny under       section 107.709 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or       a successor regulation), an application for approval under       section 107.807 of that title (or a successor regulation)       based on the responses to the questions required under       paragraph (1).

(f) Foreign Manufacturers Listing Approvals.--Not later       than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and       annually thereafter, the Secretary shall publish and maintain       on the website of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety       Administration a list of approved foreign manufacturers of       cylinders and the duration of those approvals.

(g) Authorizing Foreign Inspections.--Not later than 18       months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary       shall revise section 107.807(d) of title 49, Code of Federal       Regulations--

(1) to require that in any case in which the Secretary       determines there is good cause, an inspection under that       section shall be carried out annually for such duration as       the Secretary determines appropriate;

(2) to specify that a refusal of inspection under that       section shall result in a loss of the status of in good       standing;

(3) to allow the Secretary to request, at the discretion of       the Secretary--

(A) production of test and production records; and

(B) random sample testing; and

(4) to allow for the recovery of all associated costs of       foreign inspections to include travel, time, and other costs,       as determined by the Secretary.

Mr. EZELL.  1182.

Mr. Speaker, in recent years, foreign-produced gas cylinders from  countries like China have entered the United States market despite  failing to meet Department of Transportation safety standards and  specifications.

In addition to threatening public safety, these dangerous imported  cylinders take market share from the gas cylinder manufacturers in the  United States.

H.R. 1182 is bipartisan legislation that will improve safety while  also providing a level playing field for American cylinder  manufacturers. Importantly, this legislation will apply the same safety  standards to foreign-produced cylinders as those manufactured in the  United States.

Finally, the bill will increase the capacity of PHMSA to conduct  foreign inspections without cost to the United States taxpayers by  allowing for more adequate cost recovery from applicants.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1182 will better protect the public from the  dangers of poorly manufactured and mislabeled compressed gas cylinders.

This legislation will also better ensure fair competition for  American manufacturers and workers.

Further, H.R. 1182 improves transparency by requiring all  applications to be subject to public review and input. It ensures that  the United States regulators have access to any and all pertinent  information regarding applicants.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Ohio (Mr. Balderson) for  leading this important bipartisan effort.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.