Controlled Substance Onboard Vessels


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2351) to direct the Commandant of the Coast Guard to update the  policy of the Coast Guard regarding the use of medication to treat drug  overdose, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2351

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ONBOARD VESSELS.

Section 70503(a) of title 46, United States Code, is       amended--

(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking       ``While on board a covered vessel, an'' and inserting ``An'';

(2) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:

``(1) manufacture or distribute, possess with intent to       manufacture or distribute, or place or cause to be placed       with intent to manufacture or distribute a controlled       substance on board a covered vessel;'';

(3) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``on board a covered       vessel'' before the semicolon; and

(4) in paragraph (3) by inserting ``while on board a       covered vessel'' after ``such individual''.       SEC. 2. POLICY AND BRIEFING ON AVAILABILITY OF NALOXONE TO                     TREAT OPIOID OVERDOSES.

(a) Policy.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant of the Coast Guard       shall update the policy of the Coast Guard regarding the use       of medication to treat drug overdoses, including the use of       naloxone or other similar medication to treat opioid,       including fentanyl, overdoses.

(b) Availability.--The updated policy required under       subsection (a) shall require naloxone or other similar       medication be available for members of the Coast Guard--

(1) on all Coast Guard installations; and

(2) in each operational environment.

(c) Participation in Tracking System.--Not later than 1       year after the earlier of the date of enactment of this Act       or the date on which the tracking system established under       section 706 of the National Defense Authorization Act for       Fiscal Year 2024 (10 U.S.C. 1090 note) is established, the       Commandant shall ensure the participation of the Coast Guard       in the such tracking system.

(d) Memorandum of Understanding.--Not later than 1 year       after the earlier of the date of enactment of this Act or the       date on which the tracking system established under section       706 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year       2024 (10 U.S.C. 1090 note) is established, the Secretary of       the department in which the Coast Guard is operating when not       operating as a service in the Navy and the Secretary of       Defense shall finalize a memorandum of understanding to       facilitate Coast Guard access such tracking system.

(e) Briefing.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall provide the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation of the Senate a briefing on the use, by       members and personnel of the Coast Guard at Coast Guard       facilities, onboard Coast Guard assets, and during Coast       Guard operations, of--

(A) naloxone or other similar medication to treat opioid,       including fentanyl, overdoses; and

(B) opioids, including fentanyl.

(2) Elements.--The briefing required under paragraph (1)       shall include the following:

(A) A description of--

(i) the progress made in the implementation of the updated       policy required under subsection (a);

(ii) the prevalence and incidence of the illegal use of       fentanyl and other controlled substances in the Coast Guard       during the 5-year period preceding the briefing;

(iii) processes of the Coast Guard to mitigate substance       abuse in the Coast Guard, particularly with respect to       fentanyl; and

(iv) the status of the memorandum of understanding required       under subsection (d).

(B) For the 5-year period preceding the briefing, a review       of instances in which naloxone or other similar medication       was used to treat opioid, including fentanyl, overdoses at a       Coast Guard facility, onboard a Coast Guard asset, or during       a Coast Guard operation.

(f) Privacy.--In carrying out the requirements of this       section, the Commandant shall ensure compliance with all       applicable privacy law, including section 552a of title 5,       United States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Privacy       Act''), and the privacy regulations promulgated under section       264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability       Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note).

(g) Rule of Construction.--For purposes of the availability       requirement under subsection (b), with respect to a Coast       Guard installation comprised of multiple Coast Guard       facilities or units, naloxone or other similar medication       available at a single Coast Guard facility within the       installation shall be considered to be available to all Coast       Guard facilities or units on the installation if appropriate       arrangements are in place to ensure access, at all times       during operations, to the naloxone or other similar       medication contained within such single Coast Guard facility.

Mr. EZELL.  2351.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2351 directs the Commandant of the Coast Guard to  update the services policy regarding use of medication to treat drug  overdoses.

This bill also strengthens the Coast Guard's ability to go after drug  traffickers and respond to opioid overdoses. H.R. 2351 amends the  Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act, removing ambiguities in the current  law which prohibits the prosecution of cases involving unmanned or  autonomous vessels. This bill will therefore ensure that drug  traffickers responsible can be charged, tried, and convicted.

Mr. Speaker, I thank T&I Committee member, Representative McDowell,  for his leadership on this bipartisan legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of H.R. 2351, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this bill will ensure drug traffickers face justice as  they employ new technology and methods to flood our country with  dangerous drugs. It will also give the Coast Guard the parity to police  other armed services with regard to rapid treatment of drug overdoses,  keeping guardsmen safe from accidental exposure.

H.R. 2351 implements changes that will help secure our maritime  border and increase safety on our seas.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.