Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701476/defending-american-property-abroad-act-of-2026


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1131, I call up  the bill (H.R. 7084) to amend title 46, United States Code, with  respect to the types of vessels that may enter or operate in navigable  waters of the United States or transfer cargo in any port or place  under the jurisdiction of the  United States, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. EZELL.  7084.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 7084, the Defending American  Property Abroad Act of 2026.

This bill provides the President with the authority to effectively  address an unlawful taking of a United States citizen-owned port,  harbor, or marine terminal by another government in the Western  Hemisphere.

United States companies operate maritime facilities throughout North  and South America. Their investments must be protected.

It is essential that the United States President be able to act  quickly and decisively in response to another government expropriating  or nationalizing a United States citizen-owned port, harbor, or marine  terminal.

This bill establishes a new, narrowly constructed authority for a  President to impose a consequence on a foreign government that  illegally takes a maritime facility.

Sanctions are an accepted tool used in diplomacy and economic  statecraft. The authorities that H.R. 7084 establishes are completely  complementary to similar authorities that Congress has already granted  the President.

Nothing in this bill precludes or preempts any other option for  dispute resolution. It simply gives the President another meaningful,  targeted tool that can encourage negotiations and resolution.

The Defending American Property Abroad Act builds on sanctions,  legislation previously passed over the past six decades, and provides  the President with one or more options in a continuum for protecting  overseas American investments.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation and reserve the  balance of my time.

In closing, passage of H.R. 7084 gives the President the authority to  effectively address the illegal taking of a United States citizen-owned  port, harbor, or marine terminal throughout the Western Hemisphere.

American companies are the source of more investments in the Western  Hemisphere nations than investors from any other country.

Infrastructure projects in the Americas, especially port  infrastructure projects, represent significant potential business  opportunities for American companies.

Protecting overseas U.S. investments is an important policy  objective. This bill creates an appropriate cost and consequence for  stealing property from an American-owned business.

The Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026 is consistent with  other authorities Congress has given the President to act against the  illegal taking of American businesses and investments.

Mr. Speaker, I am a former sheriff from Mississippi. Where I come  from, when you take something that doesn't belong to you, that is  stealing, and you have broken the law. If you break the law, there are  consequences.

This bill ensures there are consequences for foreign countries that  steal from our companies. Simply put, this legislation is common sense.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.