Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699900/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2189,  the Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act of 2025, bipartisan  legislation that modernizes our Federal firearms laws to better align  with 21st century technology and the real-world needs of law  enforcement officers and the communities they protect.

The bill does something straightforward but important. It creates a  new classification for less-than-lethal projectile devices and removes  them from outdated regulatory categories that were never designed with  today's equipment in mind.

For years, departments across the country have faced unnecessary  hurdles acquiring proven less-lethal tools that can make a life-or- death difference in a very high-stress environment.

These tools, such as specialized projectiles intended to deescalate  confrontations, have helped officers reduce injuries for themselves and  for the public. Yet the lack of clarity in the current law has made  procurement difficult and compliance confusing.

H.R. 2189 fixes that, establishing clear, commonsense definitions and  regulatory pathways so that our law enforcement professionals can get  the equipment that they need without unnecessary delay or confusion.  That is not just good policy. That is good public safety sense.

This legislation represents a balanced approach. It upholds our  commitment to the rule of law, supports law enforcement safety, and  provides additional tools that encourages de-escalation and reduced  violence wherever possible.

As a fellow law enforcement officer, I thank Congressman Fitzgerald  for leading this valiant effort. I am proud to join my colleagues on  both sides of the aisle in advancing this forward.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote on H.R. 2189.