Secure Our Ports Act of 2025


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 252) to amend title 46, United States Code, to prohibit certain  contracts for port operations and management, and for other purposes,  as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 252

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Secure Our Ports Act of       2025''.       SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN CONTRACTS FOR PORT OPERATION                     AND MANAGEMENT.

(a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 700 of title 46,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following:       ``Sec. 70015. Prohibition on certain contracts for port

operation and management

``(a) In General.--An owner or operator of a facility for       which a facility security plan is required under section       70103(c) of this title may not enter into a contract for the       ownership, leasing, or operation of such facility with an       entity that is--

``(1) a Chinese, Russian, North Korean, or Iranian state-      owned enterprise; or

``(2) a foreign entity for which any percentage is owned by       a country listed in paragraph (1).

``(b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `facility',       and `owner or operator' have the meanings given such terms in       section 70101 of this title.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 700 of       title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting after       the item relating to section 70014 the following:  ``70015. Prohibition on certain contracts for port operation and                management.''

Mr. EZELL.  252, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 252 takes important steps to strengthen the  security of our supply chains by limiting the ability of the Chinese,  Russian, North Korean, or Iranian state-owned entities to own, lease,  or operate port terminals in this country.

This legislation will ensure that our ports remain safe from both  cyber and physical threats, which increases our national security  posture.

I commend my colleague from California (Mr. Calvert) for leading on  this issue and working to strengthen our Nation's posture against our  adversaries.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this bill creates a vital safeguard for some of our  Nation's most critical infrastructure. H.R. 252 prevents certain  foreign entities from entering into contracts for the ownership,  leasing, or operation of port facilities that are subject to security  plans. This, in turn, reduces vulnerabilities at our ports and bolsters  national security.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.