Congratulating John Champe High School Class of 2025


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the 451 graduates of  John Champe High School's class of 2025.

This class has a lot to be proud of. In their time as Knights, the  girls' soccer team made history by winning their first State title. A  member of the swimming team earned a State title at this year's  Virginia High School League Swim and Dive State championships.

The students performed in musicals and theater productions, including  Disney's ``The Little Mermaid.'' My family is already looking forward  to seeing the next show.

They certainly have left their mark on the John Champe community.  Whether it is college, the military, the workforce, or the trades, I  look forward to seeing all that the students accomplish.

Congratulations to the John Champe High School class of 2025.             Congratulating Lightridge High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, congratulations to the 463 students at  Lightridge's High School class of 2025, a group that has accomplished  so much.

Over the last 4 years, as Lightning, they have struck us all with  their amazing theater performances and band performances. They have won  regional titles and competed in Model U.N. competitions.

To the students, no matter what you do next, all of these experiences  will prepare you to be leaders, critical thinkers, scientists, or  whatever else you want to be. I am looking forward to following your  journey, and make sure to thank your parents and teachers, as well.

Congratulations to the Lightridge High School class of 2025.              Congratulating Riverside High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  Riverside High School graduating class of 2025.

In their time as Rams, they have competed in the State and regional  championships, performed plays, and gone above and beyond academically.

They have excelled across a wide range of fields. Riverside Moon  Productions won a competition, and the varsity softball team won a 5A  State title.

Riverside was also named as a platinum member of the 2024 AP School  Honor Roll. This would not have been possible without the 80 percent of  seniors who took at least one AP exam during high school.

Congratulations to the class of 2025 for all of their hard work and  accomplishments. I am looking forward to the next chapter and what it  has in store for them.                   Congratulating Briar Woods Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the 457 graduates of  Briar Woods High School class of 2025.

In their time as Falcons, they have put time and effort into classes,  sports activities, and clubs while building lifelong friendships.

They have excelled in a wide range of fields this year. The football  team went to the State championship. Seventeen students in the DECA  chapter qualified for the International Career Development Conference.  The theater program took home awards at the Blue Ridge Glamies for  ``Hello, Dolly!''

The graduating class of 2025 was awarded a total of $6.7 million in  scholarships and grants, and that is really impressive.

I congratulate the entire class of 2025, and I know they will carry  what they learned at Briar Woods into the future.               Congratulating Broad Run High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 400  graduates of Broad Run High School's class of 2025.

In their time as Spartans, they have worked hard in class,  participated in clubs and extracurricular activities, competed in  sports, and made lifelong friendships.

The class of 2025 has excelled across a wide range of fields this  year. The girls' varsity rowing team won bronze at the State  championship. The Marching Spartans' Celestial program dazzled, and  their production of ``The Mystery of Edwin Drood'' wowed crowds.

They left their mark on our community in Ashburn. I look forward to  seeing what they accomplish next.

I congratulate the class of 2025 at Broad Run High School. I know  they will look back on their time fondly. I hope they come back to  Ashburn often.              Congratulating Dominion High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 390  graduates of Dominion High School's class of 2025.

In their time as Titans, they have excelled across a wide range of  fields. Six will continue their athletic pursuits at the collegiate  level.

Members of the class made their mark at this year's Loudoun Now's  2025 Excellence in High School Journalism Awards ceremony. Others were  National Merit Scholarship winners and so much more.

Among the impressive things about Dominion are its proud alumni  networks. School representatives told us about 15 alumni have returned  to be teachers at Dominion High School.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the class of 2025, and I look forward to  seeing all that they accomplish in the future.               Congratulating Freedom High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  remarkable Freedom scholars in the class of 2025.

In their time as Eagles, the graduates have accomplished so much.  From inspiring performances on the stage to hard-fought victories on  the field and a true commitment to serving our community, they embody  what it means to be a Freedom Eagle.

Their passion for change and dedication to making a difference is  clear, especially through the efforts of their JROTC cadets, who have  dedicated their Saturdays to community service.

They left their mark on Freedom High School. I look forward to  watching all that they accomplish. I congratulate the Freedom High  School class of 2025.

Mr. Speaker, I know as they leave the nest, they will soar into the  future.              Congratulating Heritage High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the 345  graduates of Heritage High School and their class of 2025.

In their time as part of the Pride, the varsity baseball team won the  regional championship. Students put on their first student-led sensory  performance, ``Big Fish,'' this past spring. Students hosted Heritage's  third annual First Responder Cookout, thanking them for their service.

So many students have given back to our community in many ways, and  they have left their mark on the community.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to watching all they accomplish, and I  congratulate the graduates of Heritage High School's class of 2025.            Congratulating Independence High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 531  graduates of Independence High School's class of 2025.

As Tigers, they have excelled academically and across a wide range of  other fields. The crew team earned the gold medal at the 2025 Virginia  Scholastic Rowing Championships. For the first time in the school's  history, they played in an indoor percussion ensemble season.

The students have contributed to the pride of independence and our  community. As a school that is so new, it has been amazing to see all  that it has accomplished. They are one of the first graduating classes.

Whatever comes next, I wish them all the best of luck and success in  this new chapter of their lives.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the Independence High School Tigers.           Congratulating Loudoun County High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the 359  graduates of Loudoun County High School and their class of 2025.

In their time as Captains, this class has gone above and beyond in  creativity, leadership, and spirit.

They have excelled across a wide range of fields, whether through  giving back with the Captains Outreach, winning gold at the track-and- field championships, or demonstrating academic excellence. They truly  have been an impressive graduating class.

This class has left its mark on Loudoun County High School. I look  forward to seeing all that the graduates accomplish in the future, and  I congratulate the Loudoun County High School class of 2025.           Congratulating Loudoun Valley High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the 767  graduates of Loudoun Valley High School's class of 2025.

In their time as Vikings, this class has learned to lead with Viking  Values, respecting one another, extending empathy, and acting with  integrity.

This class excelled across a wide range of fields, including field  hockey. I congratulate them on their State title there.

They have impressed the community with their art galleries and  theater performances. Without a doubt, they have excelled academically.

The students have left their mark on Loudoun Valley, and I look  forward to watching all that they accomplish in the future. Go Vikings.             Congratulating Park View High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 345  graduates of Park View High School's class of 2025.

In their time as Patriots, this class excelled in the classroom and  on the field. They have achieved excellence across different fields-- student journalism, mathematics, science, engineering, English, and the  arts. They have demonstrated curiosity toward the world and compassion  for others.

Whether it is on the sports field or a variety of shows, band  performances, and theater productions, I hope the students carry the  memories they made with their classmates for a lifetime.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Park View High School's class of 2025.           Congratulating Potomac Falls High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the graduates of  Potomac Falls High School's class of 2025.

In their time as Panthers, they participated in a wide range of clubs  and activities, including cybersecurity club, ice hockey, and Latin  dance.

They accomplished so much this year. The track team won a title at  the VHSL Championships. The production of ``Hairspray'' was a huge  success. The chamber orchestra earned straight superiors at their  assessment.

Potomac Falls was named a National Model School this year, 1 of only  13 in the United States and the only 1 in Virginia.

These students have left their mark on Potomac Falls High School. I  am sure their time at Potomac Falls will serve them well in the future.

I wish them all the best of luck as they enter the best chapter of  their lives, and they should thank their parents and teachers, as well.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the class of 2025.            Congratulating Rock Ridge High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  graduates of Rock Ridge High School's class of 2025.

This class has been really amazing. They have become intuitive  problem-solvers through rigorous academic programs and electives. They  excelled across a wide range of fields, including English literature,  calculus, and physics. The student body has managed over 122 clubs and  groups.

Of course, the Rock Ridge Performing Arts program has put on topnotch  performances. I was proud to take my own family to the high school's  production of ``Frozen,'' the musical. My daughters loved it and wanted  to go back again and again.

The students have left their mark on Rock Ridge High School, and I  look forward to watching all that they accomplish in the future.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Rock Ridge High School's class of 2025,  and I thank them for all they have done.           Congratulating Stone Bridge High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  graduates of Stone Bridge High School's class of 2025.

In their time as Bulldogs, this class has left a lasting legacy in  the form of a mural to represent hope for the future. They excelled  across a wide range of fields, including journalism, data science, and  fine arts.

Stone Bridge High School's orchestra program is one of the few  recognized by the Virginia Band and Orchestra Association as a Program  of Distinction.

The students have left their mark on Stone Bridge High School. I look  forward to watching all they accomplish in the future. I congratulate  the Stone Bridge High School class of 2025.

Mr. Speaker, they should celebrate this milestone and enjoy the  journey ahead. They should thank their parents and teachers, as well.             Congratulating Tuscarora High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  graduates of Tuscarora High School's class of 2025.

In their time as Huskies, they have made it to the State softball  quarterfinals. They excelled across a wide range of fields, including  jazz band, National Honor Society, Spanish Club, and the Student  Council Association.

They left their mark on Tuscarora. I look forward to watching all  they accomplish. I congratulate the graduates, and I look forward to  seeing all that lies ahead.             Congratulating Woodgrove High School Class of 2025

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 406  graduates of Woodgrove High School's class of 2025.

As Wolverines, they have taken a meaningful step to make our school a  better place. Many of them have actively contributed to making  Woodgrove safer through Project Safety. They brought joy and creativity  to our halls in their performance of ``The SpongeBob Musical.''

Beyond that, Woodgrove High School was recognized in Virginia for its  growing attention to environmental awareness and stewardship. The  students' efforts have made a lasting impact on the school and  community.

I extend a special thank-you to the students, teachers, and parents  for their expertise and guidance along the way. The Woodgrove High  School Wolverines have made it. I congratulate them, and the future is  waiting.

Congratulating William O. Robey High School Class of 2025

Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the graduates of William Obediah  Robey High School's class of 2025.

In their time as Lynx, they have left a lasting legacy on our  community.

As students at Loudoun County Public Schools' first nontraditional  high school, I am so proud they have come to each class every day to  learn and invest in their futures.

Nontraditional high school programs are becoming increasingly common.  They have all been a shining light on the different paths to success  and education.

They have left their mark on William O. Robey High School, and I look  forward to watching all that they accomplish in the future.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage them to use this moment to step into their  bright future, and I congratulate the class of 2025.