Korean-American Day


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Korean- American Day, a day to commemorate the first wave of Korean immigrants  to the United States and honor the generations who have followed.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to represent a vibrant Korean-American  community in Virginia, a community that has made incredible  contributions across the country in government, business, technology,  education, the arts, and more.

Today is also a solemn reminder of the Korean-American families who  remain divided as a result of the Korean war, including families in my  district, whose stories I have heard firsthand.

The Korean war separated thousands of families who have spent decades  seeking reunification and closure, but I am proud to be championing  bipartisan legislation that I introduced earlier this year to help  accelerate the reunification of these families. This was recently  signed into law, offering these families hope for a long overdue  reunion.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to continuing to work with the Korean- American community in my district and across the country to make these  reunions a reality, and I wish everyone a happy Korean-American Day.                                 Immigration

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, my office has been working with so many  constituents who have been harmed by the administration's new  immigration policies, one of which placed a hold on immigration  petitions and applications from 19 countries designated by the  administration.

In our district, families followed the law. They filed their  paperwork and waited in good faith. They were told that their  application was in good order and would be approved soon, and then the  process completely stopped. Work permit applications were frozen,  leaving people legally present but unable to work.

Asylee and refugee family petitions have also been stalled. There are  so many heartbreaking stories, like one hopeful couple in my office who  has been trying to plan their wedding but remain separated while they  wait. There is another person who has not been able to unite with their  sons or daughters.

These delays have been putting people's lives on hold indefinitely  without any sort of timeline or transparency, and we must restore  timely adjudication of these applications.                        Recognizing Fauquier Hospital

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, for the second year in a row, Fauquier  Hospital has been named the Top General Hospital in the Nation.

Fauquier Hospital has received an A grade for the last 18 months. It  is recognized as a certified primary stroke center, and it has a 97-bed  acute care hospital.

Only 52 hospitals receive this honor every year, and we are glad to  have Fauquier Hospital serving our community.

Healthcare institutions around the country continue to face  challenges, with cuts to Medicaid, the ACA tax credits expiring, and  burned-out workforces that are asked to do more with less every single  day.

The Senate must take up the 3-year ACA tax credit extension to  address healthcare costs. We must make sure that we restore Medicaid  funding, or we risk losing hospitals like Fauquier Hospital.

Working in healthcare is often a thankless job, and I hope the House  will join me in thanking the nurses, doctors, and staff that keep  hospitals like Fauquier Hospital running.                     Honoring Puller Veterans Care Center

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the Puller  Veterans Care Center on its grand opening on the historic grounds of  the former Vint Hill Farms Station in Fauquier County. I am so excited  about this center because it is going to deliver top-quality care to  veterans in our region.

Mr. Speaker, 128 private rooms are organized into households and  neighborhoods around a central community center. The site actually  played a decisive role during World War II in intercepting enemy  communications, including the message that helped pave the way for the  D-Day invasion of Normandy.

It is fitting that a place that helped secure freedom will now serve  those who fought to preserve it. The center appropriately honors the  Puller family, including General Lewis ``Chesty'' Puller, one of the  most decorated marines in our history; his son, Lieutenant Lewis  Puller, Jr., a Vietnam veteran and a Pulitzer Prize-winning author; and  former delegate and State Senator Toddy Puller.

Mr. Speaker, congratulations to all who made this grand opening of  the Puller Center a reality.