Nationwide Shortage in Professional Fields


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today because I have heard from  a lot of my colleagues about a nationwide shortage in professional  fields like teaching, nursing, and social work. Our communities have  done a lot of work to address these shortages so we can keep our  hospitals and clinics and schools open. However, between pay, student  loans, and even threats on the job, this is a hard time to go into  fields like nursing and teaching.

Yet somehow, this administration found a way to make our workforce  shortages in these areas worse and make it harder for people in  professional fields facing shortages.

The administration just announced a plan that would remove  professions like nursing, teaching, and social work from their list of  graduate professional degrees, making it harder for people entering  these fields to access financial aid.

What message does this send to people deciding whether or not to  enter these critical fields facing shortages? When we have more  shortages in teaching and healthcare, what will happen to our schools  and our hospitals?

Workforce shortages also raise costs, and the policies of this  President will, once again, raise costs on Americans and make it harder  for them to access healthcare, mental health resources, or even get a  great education.

The next time we hear about workforce shortages or rising costs,  remember that this administration made the problem worse with this  move.               Homeownership Has Always Been the American Dream

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, homeownership has always been a  cornerstone of the American Dream. However, in my community in Virginia  and in communities across the country, homeownership is slipping out of  reach for many Americans.

Today, according to surveys, approximately half of potential home  buyers cannot afford a downpayment anymore. The median age for a first- time home buyer was once in the late twenties and now it is 40 and  continuing to rise. We need to put housing affordability front and  center when we are talking about this affordability crisis.

I am proud to introduce the bipartisan First Home Savings Opportunity  Act, legislation to support working Americans achieve their dream of  homeownership.

The bill establishes first-time home buyer savings accounts, allowing  future home buyers to save, with tax deductible contributions, for the  downpayment and closing costs that often stand in their way.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support this bill. Together, we can meet the affordability crisis head  on and deliver real support for our constituents.           Congratulating Loudon County High School's Football Team

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Loudon County  High School's football team, led by Head Coach Matt Reidenbaugh, on  making it to the State championship. They have put together a pretty  impressive season, and they will be taking on the Varina Blue Devils.  We wish Coach Reidenbaugh and the team the best of luck this weekend.

Go Captains.                Congratulating Kettle Run High School Cougars

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the Kettle Run  High School Cougars, led by Head Coach Delmar Christian, on making it  to the State championship in football. They put together an amazing  season. They will take on Lake Taylor this weekend. We wish Coach  Christian and the team the best of luck as they make Fauquier County  proud.

Go Cougars.