Recognizing the Remarkable Work of Sewa International


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  remarkable work of Sewa International, both in Virginia and around the  world.

Founded less than 25 years ago, Sewa International is a global  humanitarian organization committed to serving those in need.

Their mission focuses on several things, including disaster relief,  rehabilitation, family services, women's empowerment, health, and  education.

In Virginia, Sewa works hand in hand with local organizations to  strengthen our communities. They support the big September 11 National  Day of Service which will be happening again this year.

They offer after-school programming, provide meal service at local  shelters, and help the next generation get involved, engaging high  school students and volunteer work.

I am thankful for all Sewa International does for our communities.      Supreme Court of Virginia Prevented a Toll Hike on Dulles Greenway

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, last week our community got a major  win. The Supreme Court of Virginia upheld a bill that I had passed, one  that prevented a 40 percent toll hike on the Dulles Greenway, maybe  more. Without this bill tolls would have jumped from at least $5.80 to  $8.10 each way.

For regular commuters like me, that is $1,150 back in their pockets  at least. This is a reminder of what we can achieve when we work  together to take on tough fights, including for families facing high  costs. This was a bipartisan initiative because across Virginia and  across the country families are feeling the squeeze.

Housing costs are up, childcare is expensive, and utility bills are  rising. In Loudoun County, tolls add an extra burden to the cost of  getting to work.

This win is a step toward lowering costs for all families and a step  towards addressing the broader affordability crisis.

I am committed to continuing this work in Congress and fighting to  lower tolls even further and pushing for policies that put more money  back in the pockets of working families.             Honoring the Life and Memory of Supervisor Bob Weir

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I also rise today with profound sadness  to honor the life and memory of Supervisor Bob Weir, who served the  Gainesville District on the Prince William County Board of Supervisors  starting in 2023.

A husband and a father of three, Bob dedicated the past two decades  to serving his community. He served terms on the Haymarket Town Council  and Planning Commission and over 2 years on the County Board of  Supervisors, all focused on empowering his constituents in Prince  William County to demand the best from their elected officials.

Bob cared deeply about his constituents and serving them. He was  known  for personally following up with residents and addressing their  concerns. He prioritized transparency, once saying: You don't have to  ask me where I stand on issues because I am usually pretty clear about  it. I am not going to sit there and obfuscate up there. If I don't like  something, I will tell you I don't like something and why.

Bob's memory and legacy will live on through the lives that he  touched. Our hearts go out to all of his family. Our prayers go with  him as well. May he rest in peace.               Commemorating Korean War Veterans Armistice Day

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to commemorate Korean War  Armistice Day and to honor the millions of servicemembers who fought  during the Korean war.

This year marks the 16th anniversary of Proclamation 8399, a  proclamation to establish National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day.

I am proud to have introduced legislation in this Congress to help  reunify families who remain divided from the war. I look forward to  continuing to work to support our veterans.

I thank the Korean American Grassroots Conference and partner  organizations like the Council of Korean Americans, the Korea Economic  Institute, The Korea Society, the Korean American Institute, and  Remember 727 for organizing this week's event.