School Funding Slashed


Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, in the past few weeks, students  returned to school across Virginia and across the country, including my  two daughters.

Unfortunately, while students were enjoying their summer breaks, this  administration moved to slash funding and resources for public  education across the country. Those funds are funds that were needed to  ensure that our kids get a great education.

This administration has now illegally withheld billions of dollars in  congressionally approved education funding, forcing schools to delay or  cancel programs.

In northern Virginia, our schools have been the target of even more  funding cuts over culture wars and partisan politics. This has come at  a time when Virginia is still dealing with learning loss.

As this administration has continued to make plans to cut even more  education funding, including at the Department of Education itself, we  need to make sure that we are pushing back and fighting back against  these cuts because our kids are worth it.

The big, ugly bill slashed funding for Medicaid and SNAP, which  families in our community rely on to keep their kids healthy and fed.  If we really want to be profamily, prokids, and proparents, we would be  investing in our students, not causing chaos and confusion by cutting  resources and making our schools less safe and underfunded.

I will continue to work with my colleagues, and I hope this can be  bipartisan, to push back on these cuts to education.                           Combating the Rise in Hate

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, hate has no place in our communities,  and that is why I condemn the recent hateful attacks on Hindu temples  and mandirs all across the country.

From the BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir in Indiana to the Sri Radha  Krishna Temple in Utah, sacred spaces for faith communities have been  targeted with acts of hate, vandalism, and desecration.

These are not isolated incidents. It is part of a rise in violence.  It is a part of a rise in division in our country. It is not just  happening to temples. It is happening to all places of worship.

Every American deserves the right to safely practice their faith  without fear. That is why we need to continue fighting for increased  resources for security at places of worship, like these temples. We  must be committed to doing more to combat the rise in hate that we are  experiencing in the United States to ensure that our communities are  protected.

Madam Speaker, I will continue to work with my colleagues on both  sides of the aisle to do that.                         Supporting Small Businesses

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, since May, 33 new small businesses  have officially opened in Prince William County.

They include AlSham, a Syrian grocery store and bakery; GN Banquet  Center, an event venue; Modern Remodeling, a restoration service;  Shotted, a Saudi-style coffee shop; My Haberdasher, a custom suits and  tuxedo rental service; Dry Time Restoration, a water damage service;  Chocolate, which I guess is not a candy store but an apparel store in  Manassas Mall; Doyle Systems, a full-service mechanical contractor; and  Ebenezer Roofing.

The growth of these businesses reflects the innovation and  entrepreneurship of our communities, especially of the folks in Prince  William County. I am looking forward to continuing to support them as  they continue to grow their businesses in one of the best places to do  business in the country: Northern Virginia.                  Recognizing Haymarket Gainesville Library

Mr. SUBRAMANYAM. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize and thank the  Haymarket Gainesville Library for having a new collection of books in  Nepali.

This is part of a greater effort in Prince William County to include  more books in other languages, including Urdu, as part of their world  languages collection. We have a great Nepalese community in our region,  and we want to make sure that they are supported.

Nearly 175 Nepali language books and around 250 Urdu language books  were received as donations by community members. This is a testament to  the value of public libraries as a resource to our communities and the  growing diversity of our region, as well.

Public libraries, including where our office hosts our office hours,  continue to be an asset for all communities and age groups. I am proud  that a library in my district is at the forefront of being that space  for constituents of all backgrounds.