Department of Homeland Security Funding


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701348/department-of-homeland-security-funding


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker, ICE is an untamed agency that continues  to overstep the bounds of legality. They have shot and killed American  citizens in Minnesota, and almost 50 people have died under their  custody. They continue to pound people all over the country.

We saw how they lurked around schools, bringing fear to American  families. They body slammed a sitting Member of the U.S. Senate from  the State of California. They tear-gassed and threw chemicals at duly  elected Members of the House of Representatives in California. They  continue to establish that they have no civility and no respect for  sensitive locations, for houses of worship, schools, and hospitals.  Instead of addressing these issues and protecting constituents,  Republicans have withheld hundreds of thousands of dollars from FEMA,  TSA, and Coast Guard personnel.

This week, Madam Speaker, we are voting on a dishonest resolution  that supposedly shows support for Department of Homeland Security  agencies. Republicans are also putting the same DHS funding bill on the  floor that has already failed in the Senate numerous times.

This is a disingenuous effort, a failed proposal, and, frankly, a  lie. If Congress really supported these workers, then we would be  having a serious discussion, a conversation, about how to end the  shutdown.

Let's fund TSA. Let's separate TSA from ICE. Let's make sure that the  men and women who work at our airports get their salaries. We can do  that.

ICE deserves to be dismantled because of their rogue behavior and  because of their deadly behavior. A discussion must be had about the  future of any agency, and TSA agents deserve to get their salaries.

Passengers across the country that are waiting hours upon hours and  missing their flights deserve not to have their lives disrupted. Let's  pay the TSA agents, and let's have a full discussion about the wrong  ways of this deadly agency called ICE.

Meanwhile, more than 400 TSA officers have already quit since the  shutdown on February 14. The FEMA disaster fund is now depleted. DHS  employees have been forced to go without pay for nearly 6 weeks.

Airline travelers are experiencing the worst wait times in the  history of our Nation, and some are being harassed at the airport by  ICE agents.

The President has not helped this disaster by insisting that  Republicans reject any and all proposals that come before his desk. Any  attempt to pass a bill to resolve this matter the President has  automatically rejected.

In fact, he has thrown gasoline on top of this conflict by adding a  voter suppression bill, the SAVE Act, to this discussion, something  that has nothing to do with the airports or TSA.

In fact, many Americans, including married women, seniors, and others  feel that this is a voter suppression effort, trying to throw us  decades back from the Civil Rights Act and Voting Rights Act  legislation that protected all Americans.

We must hold this effort, dastardly effort, accountable. ICE's  mission under Trump was never to keep America safe. It was to keep  immigrant communities frightened through fear and intimidation tactics.  We must hold this agency accountable, and we begin to do that by  dismantling it.