Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697446/fighting-dhs-immigration-raids


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Ramirez for her  leadership in this special hour, and I thank the Congressional  Progressive Caucus, as well as the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and  all the other Members associated with this special hour.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to forcefully speak against the Trump  administration's horrific ICE abuses, far beyond an overreach on the  immigrant and Latino communities across the country.

Back in New York City, my community is being assaulted, and we are  hearing of the fear every single day. Fear has a way of settling into  communities and making sure they don't move forward. So we must break  with the fear.

Just recently a video surfaced from 26 Federal Plaza in New York City  that shows a distraught woman violently shoved to the ground, thrown to  the ground, and slammed to the ground by an ICE officer as her young  daughter tried to assist her. The woman was unarmed, nonviolent, and  posed absolutely no threat to anyone.

According to a recent investigation, more than 170 U.S. citizens have  been detained by immigration agents in recent months. These are U.S.  citizens, people who often are telling these officers that they are a  U.S. citizen, and they are disregarded and pushed aside, handcuffed and  detained for hours. Many reportedly have been kicked, dragged, and  detained for days.

As of November 2025, ICE has detained 65,135 people, and roughly 73.6  percent of them have no criminal conviction.

Many in immigrant and Latino communities, including U.S.-born  individuals, now report fear, reluctance to go to court, to public  services, or even to participate in regular civic life.

The violent incident at 26 Federal Plaza is not an isolated lapse. It  reflects a much broader policy of aggressiveness and unaccountable  enforcement with little transparency and no due process.

We must demand accountability, transparency, and protection of civil  rights to ensure enforcement respects due process and human dignity.  The American people are seeing the reality of this enforcement: fear,  brutality and injustice. They will not stand for it.

Mr. Speaker, I will echo again what I said in Chicago during the  hearing that we had there. Masked agents, without a first name and a  last name, without a shield number, anonymous masked ICE agents,  patrolling our streets, pushing people up against a wall, slamming to  the ground a sitting U.S. Senator for the State of California, Senator  Padilla, slamming a woman to the ground at 26 Federal Plaza in front of  her young girl, not representing or respecting sensitive locations like  places of worship, houses of worship--this is the State of America  today.

This is the Trump dictatorship. It is not tomorrow. It is not next  week, next month, or next year. It is happening right now. These are  the characteristics of a dictatorship, and we must do everything we can  to save our Nation.