Medicaid and Social Security Cuts


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691482/medicaid-and-social-security-cuts


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, tonight in the middle of the night and in  darkness, away from the view of the American people, hidden in some  committee room in the Capitol, the Rules Committee will meet. They are  scheduled to meet at 1 a.m. in the morning when Americans are sleeping  and when families are resting awaiting the next day.

They are scheduled to meet to discuss at length Medicaid cuts. More  than one-half of the residents in the district that I have the  privilege to represent, the 13th Congressional District, encompassed by  Harlem, east Harlem, Washington Heights, Inwood, and the northwest  Bronx, more than  one-half--close to 500,000 of my constituents--are Medicaid recipients.  They receive primary and emergency healthcare. Almost 4 million  residents in New York City, one-half of the city, rely on Medicaid.

Mr. Speaker, this discussion that will be held in the middle of the  night when most Americans will not be tuned in is a life-and-death  discussion about cuts to perhaps the most important Federal program  that impacts the daily health and life of people across the country,  the Medicaid program.

Again, over 3 million New York City residents are also enrolled in  the New York State Medicaid Pharmacy program, the so-called OTC  program, the Over-the-Counter program, which allows coverage of  prescription drugs and certain over-the-counter medication and goods,  including food. So this is a life-and-death discussion that our  Republican colleagues are having in the middle of the night after  promising the American people that Medicaid will be safe from deep  cuts.

Republicans have spent time and will spend time delivering a bill  that will devastate--again, Mr. Speaker, will devastate Medicaid  enrollment rates. This, again, will happen in the middle of the night.  They are scheduled to meet at 1 a.m. in the morning.

Mr. Speaker, 14 million Americans will lose their healthcare, and  safety net hospitals will be in danger of closing. Yes, even senior  homes, nursing homes, will be facing severe cuts and potential closing,  and people could die. This is a life-and-death discussion, Mr. Speaker.  All of this is to pay for severe tax cuts for the very wealthy.

The bill will require harsh work requirements for Medicaid  recipients. It will force people who are ill or sick to go to work to  receive the benefits that the program offers that will terminate  coverage for millions of low-income Americans including seniors,  children, and veterans.

Republicans also have introduced a $300-million cut to the SNAP  program, yes, on food stamps, which would impact 300,000 people in my  district, many of them children and seniors who rely on the benefit to  eat.

Mr. Speaker, 35 percent of them are children.

This will be the largest cut to the Food Stamp Program in our  Nation's history. In the middle of the night, Republicans will cut  Medicaid and will cut food stamps when people are not watching. This is  nothing more than a GOP tax scam that gives billions of dollars in tax  breaks to millionaires and gives nothing back to working-class families  but empty stomachs and Medicaid debt to the working class.

Mr. Speaker, the billionaire wins and families lose with this bill.  Let's fight back.