Opposing Illegal Power Grabs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690851/opposing-illegal-power-grabs


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the Trump  administration's illegal power grabs.

Through executive orders, the Trump administration continues to  circumvent Congress and violate the checks and balances of our three  branches of government. He also continues to ignore court orders,  including from the highest Court in the land, the U.S. Supreme Court,  inching every day closer and closer to a constitutional crisis.

Mr. Speaker, in addition, Senate and House Republicans have made it  clear time and time again that they have no interest in holding the  President accountable to the American people and the Constitution of  the United States of America, leaving the judicial branches of  government as our strongest tool, leaving the courts as our only hope.

Within hours of taking office, President Trump issued an executive  order that would have unlawfully denied birthright citizenship, which  is guaranteed to everyone born in America by the 14th Amendment. He did  this although this principle has been affirmed  by the courts on numerous occasions. Currently, the courts have halted  this executive order, citing how unconstitutional it is. More than 200  Democrats filed an amicus brief against this executive order when it  was challenged in court. This attempt has been successfully halted.

In February, over a dozen religious organizations filed a lawsuit.  These organizations sued the Department of Homeland Security after the  administration rescinded guidance that would prevent immigration  enforcement in sensitive locations, like schools, hospitals, and houses  of worship.

Mr. Speaker, you could be praying at a church or in a synagogue or  temple, and immigration enforcement could bust in to arrest somebody as  they pray to their God. They tried to implement this aggressive  practice, and yet people have gone to the courts for relief.

This echoes my own bill, H.R. 1061, Protecting Sensitive Locations  Act, which would codify the Biden-era guidance. More than 70 of my  Democratic colleagues have joined to support this legislation.  Democrats have been hard at work to support ongoing legal cases by  joining our amicus briefs.

When the Trump administration tried to dismantle the Consumer  Financial Protection Bureau, the agency that provides relief to  consumers, 200 Democrats filed an amicus brief when it went to court.  The amicus brief was cited by the judge in the decision, pausing the  dismantling of this important bureau.

Mr. Speaker, after one of Trump's latest crackdowns on scientific  research at universities, Harvard filed a lawsuit against the  administration, arguing that its freezing of research funding is  unconstitutional and flatly unlawful.

Though undocumented families and small businesses were explicitly  encouraged for decades by government and legal counsel to come forward  out of the darkness and pay their taxes through their ITIN number, the  Trump administration is now trying to target this data to carry out his  mass deportation plan.

This is not just an immigration issue; this is a privacy issue.  Taxpayer privacy is key to our democracy. That is why, as chair of the  Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I led the CHC in an amicus brief on this  legislation. More than 100 Democrats have signed on.

It is clear through his actions and his words that President Trump  has no interest in upholding the Constitution and granting every  American the due process that they are owed. There has been a  longstanding tradition of underrepresented communities resorting to the  judicial system when all else has failed to hold larger, richer, and  more powerful entities accountable.

We must continue the fight to uphold the right to due process. We  must fight to continue to hold the Trump administration accountable. We  must preserve our system of checks and balances. Not to do so would  damage the balance of power and permanently fracture our democracy.