Venezuela


Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, let us make two things clear today, the  things that I think are eminently important and that perhaps could find  consensus in this Chamber on both sides of the aisle. In fact, I  believe even most countries across the world would agree with those two  things, maybe even the United Nations and the Organization of American  States could agree with that, and I am confident even the Vatican could  agree with that, and that is that Nicholas Maduro was not the  legitimate president of Venezuela. The Venezuelan people were neither  free nor prosperous during his corrupt regime.

Here is another truth, Mr. Speaker, that in no way conflicts with  this first one: The President of the United States must come to  Congress before ordering a military engagement against any country.

Mr. Speaker, you cannot uphold the rule of law by breaking it. You  cannot protect or abide by the Constitution by assaulting it.

Again, so there is no confusion between these two positions, Nicolas  Maduro was not a legitimate President, and unauthorized military action  is illegal without the consent of Congress.

With Nicolas Maduro now in the rearview mirror, we must look forward  and craft policies that support a free and democratic future for  Venezuela and policies that return war powers to the United States  Congress, as enshrined in the United States Constitution.

That is why I and the executive board of the Congressional Hispanic  Caucus will propose a forward-looking framework for a democratic and  stable Venezuela. As members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, we  come from different nations in Latin America and the Caribbean. We are  immigrants, like myself. Many of the members also have ancestors who  settled in places in these United States before the United States even  existed, and everywhere in between. We share, like most Americans with  roots from all over the world, a special connection to Latin America  and the Caribbean. Hence, we have crafted a series of recommendations,  a roadmap if you will, for democracy and prosperity for the people of  Venezuela.

Our first priorities will support a free and democratic Venezuela.  That means rejecting authoritarian governance, whether the orders come  from the Miraflores Palace or the White House.

The Venezuelan people deserve institutions that are accountable,  transparent, and responsible to the world and a restoration of  democracy through timely and legitimate elections that reflect the  voices of the Venezuelan people themselves.

This is not just about the Venezuelan people. This is ultimately also  about the American people, and the American people deserve a government  that preserves, protects, and even respects our own rule of law, our  own Constitution.

That is why we reject any further U.S. military intervention without  congressional authorization. If we are together, as a nation, to put  our men and women in uniform at risk, then our Constitution wisely  demands that the decisions be made by the Representatives of those  people. It may well be that Congress will have voted for or against an  intervention, but, ultimately, it is Congress that should do it.

Now that we are so deeply involved with Venezuela, we must act  according to our principles. That means ensuring humanitarian  protections at home and abroad for the Venezuelan people who have been  victims of tyranny for so long.

At home, that includes extending TPS. We cannot deport people to a  nation where our actions have set off a new wave of oppression.

In Venezuela, that means pushing for an end to that repression. It  means the release of political prisoners, including journalists and  civil society leaders. It means freedom of expression and freedom of  the press. We must also ensure that Venezuela's future is decided by  Venezuelans.

Our future is also in balance. Mr. Speaker, we are not a nihilist  nation. Mr. Speaker, we are a nation of values, principles, and laws.  We must act as one.