Devastating Harm Caused By Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695601/devastating-harm-caused-by-trump-administration


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Kaptur for leading us  in this evening's discussion. I offer heartfelt thanks for the drive  she provides for economic development and, perhaps more importantly,  economic recovery. I thank her for her intellect.

Mr. Speaker, in New York's capital region, we know the value of hard  work and the dignity that comes with a paycheck, a steady paycheck. I  think that is driven somewhat, perhaps greatly, by the DNA of our  Nation, which is the pioneer spirit. People are just about innovation.  They want to discover and create a stronger economy.

It is also inspired in upstate New York because I represent the  easternmost portion of the Erie Canal. This is a bold vision that  connected a great ocean, the Atlantic, with the Great Lakes. It allowed  for not only the strengthening of the port of a small place called New  York--New York City--but gave birth to a necklace of communities dubbed  ``mill towns'' that became the epicenter of invention and innovation.  They not only inspired a westward movement but addressed favorably the  quality of life of people across the great world.

Mr. Speaker, all of this is a part of history and now underpins the  opportunity to grow an innovation economy. Yet, under the Trump  administration, working people are being betrayed. Reckless tariffs and  political maneuvers have created chaos for manufacturers, for farmers,  for scientists, and union workers alike.

We saw the promise of good-paying jobs in offshore wind manufacturing  at our ports. Yet, instead of stability, this administration issued  stop-work orders and launched sham investigations that have chilled the  industry.

Some manufacturing projects are pressing forward; but others have  been forced to walk away, robbing our region of jobs, stalling clean  energy deployment, and denying New Yorkers the growth that they were  promised. This loss is not confined to New York's 20th, my  congressional district.

Across the Nation, 142 clean energy projects have already been  threatened, delayed, or canceled. This puts at risk nearly $87 billion  worth of investment and more than 91,000 good-paying jobs.

The same story is unfolding in research and innovation. For decades,  Federal funding has fueled jobs, discovery, and partnerships amongst  universities, business, industry, and manufacturing. Cuts are now  forcing campuses to lay off researchers and driving businesses to look  elsewhere for stability.

With world-class universities, a surge of semiconductor investment,  and transformative projects like the EUV accelerator at New York  CREATES, the capital region is at the cutting-edge of the innovation  economy.

When Federal support for these institutions and industries is  threatened, it doesn't just hurt today's jobs. It jeopardizes  tomorrow's breakthroughs, our competitiveness, and the livelihoods of  the next generation.

This is about whether America leads in clean energy, advanced  manufacturing, quantum computing and semiconductors, or cedes those  opportunities to competitors abroad. We are supposed to win all the  races and make us great again. We are falling behind in competition.

Construction workers, researchers, manufacturers, and students are  ready to build the next generation of American industry. Instead of  investing in them, this administration is pulling the rug out from  under them. This is not just bad policy. It is a cruel betrayal  of working people.

We owe it to our workers, our communities, and the future of American  innovation to end these destructive policies and commit to building it  all. Let's take our history to remind us that we are at our greatest  when we embrace and reach to the pioneer spirit in all of us.