Fire Improvement and Reforming Exceptional Events Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701963/fire-improvement-and-reforming-exceptional-events-act


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New Jersey for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I completely understand that many State and local  governments are dealing with severe air pollution related to wildfires,  but as we approach Earth Day, it is important for us to recognize that  efforts like the Clean Air Act should be continued to be implemented to  the fullest and even enhanced where necessary.

I will be crystal clear: The Clean Air Act already allows States to  submit data for air pollution caused by exceptional events, preventing  these emissions from penalizing them when determining compliance with  air quality standards. Now, exceptional events are events that are  typically uncommon and not easily within the State's control.

Air pollution due to wildfires, including prescribed burns for  wildfire mitigation, can definitely count as exceptional.

In 2019, EPA issued guidance addressing how prescribed fires can  satisfy the statutory definition of ``exceptional events.'' In 2024,  EPA issued a number of other tools to assist States in meeting the  regulatory requirements.

Mr. Speaker, it is true that this guidance does require States to  take steps to allow prescribed burns to qualify as an exceptional  event, including making certain that appropriate mitigation and  monitoring measures are taken to reduce risks to people in a given  area.

If Members of the majority stop to think about this for a moment,  they would appreciate the need for such guidance. Not every man-made  fire should be able to qualify automatically as an exceptional event.

EPA's requirements ensure that States are doing everything possible  to follow best practices and limit health risks from prescribed fires  that cause unsafe air quality. Yet, despite the bill's name,  eliminating these safeguards for prescribed burns isn't the only change  to the Clean Air Act included in this order of legislative change.

The FIRE Act allows and greatly expands what could be considered an  exceptional event in the first place, including meteorological  conditions that are commonly occurring, such as high-temperature days  and drought, which tend to have worse air quality. We know that these  types of days are becoming more common due to climate change, meaning  that this bill would make it much easier for States to essentially  write off air pollution on days with increasingly normalized  conditions. It is just a poor sense of timing for this bill to arrive  on the scene.

Exceptional events should be limited to things that are truly  exceptional. It is critical that during high-temperature and low- precipitation times, days that are more likely to experience poor air  quality, we are still seeking to protect people.

Exempting prescribed fire activities from air quality standards, not  to mention the other commonly occurring conditions that would be  considered exceptional under this bill, simply does not protect public  health.

This bill is seeking to legislate a quick fix that papers over  legitimate pollution-reduction issues. Instead, we should build upon  the existing law and EPA's efforts to bring together partners from the  Federal, State, and local levels to work together to reduce wildfire  risks, including addressing climate change, while also mitigating risks  to public health.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to oppose this bill.