Foreign Emissions and Nonattainment Clarification for Economic Stability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701733/foreign-emissions-and-nonattainment-clarification-for-economic-stability-act


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New Jersey for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, when we debated this bill in committee, I was reminded  of the environmental history of the Adirondack Mountains, which are  located just to the north of my district in upstate New York. The  Adirondacks are known for their beauty as well as the ecological damage  they suffered from acid rain.

That acid rain was caused by polluting power plants in the Midwest,  and that pollution didn't stop in upstate New York. It also harmed  people and the environment in eastern Canada. The international  pressure brought by the Canadian Government helped motivate the Bush  administration and Congress to enact the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments,  which included a program to control sources of acid rain pollution.

In that case, American industries were the polluters, but it  demonstrates how international cooperation in pursuit of our common  environmental goals is, indeed, possible.

States and counties burdened by foreign pollution sources should be  able to rely upon their Federal Government to address these issues  through bilateral discussions with the polluting country. We should be  able to have a bipartisan consensus in Congress that we would like our  environmental and diplomatic efforts to prioritize these issues in our  international relations.

Of course, it should be a national imperative that we collectively  demand polluters in Mexico, China, or any other country that may be  proven to be contributing to an area's nonattainment of a Clean Air Act  standard, to do something to control their pollution.

I understand that States and counties may be frustrated by pollution  sources from outside their jurisdiction, but the lungs of the people  living and working in those areas don't care from whence that pollution  originated. It affects their health all the same.

I don't think the answer can be to simply ignore the problem of  Americans breathing unsafe levels of air pollution. States and local  air agencies should continue to work with EPA to find ways to better  protect people by also allowing for opportunities to prove when  emissions originate from outside their borders.

Thankfully, that is already how the Clean Air Act works, making this  bill unnecessary. Section 179B of the Clean Air Act currently gives  States that opportunity to prove emissions came from an international  source and provides regulatory relief when an area would have otherwise  achieved the National Ambient Air Quality Standard.

Instead, this bill allows States to completely ignore international  pollution in their State implementation plans, and it provides free  passes on pollution that comes from outside the area, from exceptional  events, and from mobile-source pollution.

The bill blocks EPA's ability to impose sanctions on States that fail  to make progress toward reducing air pollution, including States that  are not even trying to improve air quality.

Mr. Speaker, I agree that we should be working to better protect our  constituents from having to breathe pollution from foreign sources, but  pretending that pollution doesn't exist simply cannot be the answer.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to oppose this bill.