Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698044/promoting-efficient-review-for-modern-infrastructure-today-act


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Chairman, our waterways and our waters are precious resources,  and we need to advance policies that protect that precious resource and  certainly need policies that enable us to be resourceful in the use of  this commodity.

In my youth, growing up in my home and hometown of Amsterdam, New  York, if you wanted to know what color the Mohawk Carpet Mills were  dying their carpets that day, all you had to do was look at the flow of  the Chuctanunda Creek as it emptied into the Mohawk River.

With the passage of the Clean Water Act, Congress took historic  action to protect public health and improve the quality of drinking  water across our great country.

Our rivers, our brooks, and our streams are the center of our  communities, and we have come so far to protect and strengthen these  resources for the generations that will follow.

Instead of strengthening our waterways, this bill that we are  debating today on the House floor is a wholesale attack on what is left  of the Clean Water Act. It is a one-two punch that would allow more  forever chemicals and harmful pollutants to be discharged into our  waterways with little regulation, while diluting the ability for States  and Tribes to take action to protect their communities.

I continue to believe that there is a genuine interest in Congress on  both sides of the aisle to advance durable, bipartisan solutions to  meet our Nation's energy demands, to create good jobs, and to safeguard  our communities and environment.

Mr. Chair, I encourage my Republican colleagues to focus on real  solutions instead of giveaways to polluters. This special interest  crowd that is getting different treatment to pollute and not respect  our resources has got to stop.

Mr. Chair, I urge Members to please oppose this bill.