Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688179/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-waste-emissions-charge-for-petroleum-and-natural-gas-systems-procedures-for-facilitating-compliance-including-netting-and-exemptions


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition, strong opposition, to this  resolution.

For the past 5 weeks, Elon Musk and congressional Republicans have  been running around calling any Federal spending debt they don't like  waste. The empowerment exercise of Elon Musk is a rather interesting  saga. He is a person who did not have a background check, was not  confirmed or had a process of approval through the United States  Senate, and is functioning through a ghost agency of government  oversight of efficiency. He is now the determinant to go forward and  reduce government in a way that is not utilizing the strength of  inspectors general or institutional memory that can best guide the  academics to do that with the greatest degree of efficiency.                            Parliamentary Inquiry

Mr. TONKO. Sure.

Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I was using that to set in context my  comments because, again, waste addressed in an efficiency exercise is  important, but ironically, today, we are finally on the House floor  talking about an EPA rule that reduces actual, literal waste, and  Republicans want to undo it.

The oil and gas industry is the largest industrial source of methane  pollution. Each year, oil and gas operators emit the equivalent of $2  billion worth of wasted natural gas, and that can come via venting,  perhaps flaring, and leaks. The methane polluter fee makes certain that  companies are held accountable for their waste.

This is an effort to provide for efficiency for the general public  because methane waste is not only exacerbating climate change, but it  is also bad for Americans, especially through their energy bills.

Consumers still pay for natural gas that is wasted, but this  resolution will let those polluters off the hook. It also hurts  American companies that are innovating new technologies enabling leak  detection and repair, creating whole new pollution reduction  industries.

These new technologies are turning waste into economic value, all  while protecting our environment.

I suggest that that is an exercise we should all embrace, but oil and  gas industry polluters aren't willing to take meaningful mitigation  actions voluntarily if it eats into their bottom lines.

It is why we have historically enacted environmental laws to make  sure polluters pay for the damage that they do to the public. The  methane polluter fee is the next chapter of that environmental success  story by incentivizing companies to perform leak detections and repairs  that provide high-quality and good-paying jobs that employ thousands of  Americans across our great country.

We should be holding polluters accountable, lowering energy costs for  hardworking Americans, and supporting new domestic industries, but when  it comes down to a choice between reducing everyday Americans' energy  bills or lining the pockets of oil and gas executives, Republicans will  choose Big Oil each and every time.

Let's stop wasting methane without consequence, and let's not leave  American consumers to foot the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to oppose this resolution.                            Parliamentary Inquiry