Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Review of Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources As Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act''


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this resolution. S.J.  Res. 31 is irresponsible, especially as we wait to see whether  Republicans will bring forward their budget bill to strip healthcare  from millions of Americans to give tax breaks to billionaires.

However, this resolution would allow 1,800 facilities that emit the  worst of the worst cancer-causing toxic air pollutants to avoid Clean  Air Act requirements that protect the air that we breathe.

It would eliminate a 2024 EPA rule that ensures large industrial  facilities like chemical plants and oil refineries control their  hazardous air pollution. Hazardous air pollutants are known or  suspected to cause cancer, birth defects, developmental disorders, and  neurological problems, even at extremely low levels of exposure.

It has been suggested that the 2024 rule eliminates the incentive for  facilities to deploy new technologies to reduce pollution. However, we  have some real-world data on this, and there is zero evidence that  polluters will go above and beyond what is legally required of them by  installing new technologies once they have avoided the major source  requirements of the Clean Air Act.

The first Trump administration initially undid the ``once in, always  in'' policy in 2020, and over 200 facilities were able to escape those  given requirements. As far as I know, none of these sites has taken  additional steps to install new pollution controls.

On the other hand, many of these facilities have been free to run  their existing, previously installed pollution controls less. When they  were categorized as a major source, they needed to take steps to  drastically reduce their emissions as much as possible, based on  demonstrated, cost-effective technologies.

In many cases, that resulted in emission levels dropping far below  the major source thresholds, but the Clean Air Act's intent was never  to bring pollution levels right below some arbitrary major source  threshold. It is about reducing emissions and potentially even  eliminating emissions as much as it is cost-effectively possible.

Rescinding this rule would give another 1,800 facilities the green  light to shut off their long-installed pollution control equipment,  spew hazardous air pollution right up to the major source trigger, and  increase cancer-causing pollution without consequence.

The Clean Air Act is an incredible public health success story, and  we are at risk of writing a new, dark chapter in this law's history.  There have been five decades of strong, bipartisan support in Congress  for the law, which has allowed us to make steady progress to reduce air  pollution in our country.

Yes, in many places we are breathing cleaner air today than we were  in the 1970s or 1990s, but that improvement is not guaranteed to be  maintained if we start to chip away and backslide.

This resolution puts our previous progress in serious jeopardy, and  the people who live along the fence lines of these 1,800 industrial  facilities are at risk of facing the worst consequences.

These communities tend to be low income. I would venture that many  rely on Medicaid. The one-two punch of this resolution with a budget  bill to strip healthcare from nearly 14 million people is wrong. It  will leave people with unhealthier air, fewer protections, and less  access to healthcare to deal with the consequences--cancer, birth  defects, and developmental disorders--of allowing these facilities to  pollute more.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to oppose this resolution.