Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New Jersey for  yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to this Congressional Review Act  resolution.

The three CRA resolutions being considered today target Clean Air Act  Federal preemption waivers that authorize stronger pollution standards  for cars and trucks for the State of California.

Ranking Member Pallone and others have explained how these  resolutions go far beyond what is legally allowable under the  Congressional Review Act and how the Clean Air Act clearly authorized  California to pursue and be granted these waivers as has been the case  many, many times over the past 50 years.

Now, I understand that many Republicans in Congress do not like that  California is able to take steps to address its extraordinary air  pollution from the transportation sector, but they are in luck. They  control the House, they control the Senate, and President Trump is in  the White House.

If the majority wants to directly attack States' rights and prevent  California from developing more ambitious public health protections,  they can propose an amendment to the Clean Air Act to change the law  and end the waiver process. No one has proposed this because it would  require hearings and markups and convincing people of the merits of  upending more than 50 years of Clean Air Act precedent, which has been  the most successful public health law in history.

Instead, we are here today debating a shortcut, a Congressional  Review Act resolution, as we have done time and time again this year as  a quick way to undermine environmental rules rather than doing the hard  work of actually legislating. If we dug into the legislative history of  the Clean Air Act, it would be clear that Congress carefully crafted  the law to recognize the diverse air pollution challenges facing each  State.

We would also have a chance to understand how so many innovations  have occurred not only because of the law broadly but specifically  because California has been able to pursue more protective standards.

The process that has resulted in us debating this resolution today is  all wrong, but it is also bad on the merits.

The Advanced Clean Trucks program is going to make major  contributions to reducing air pollution in California, and this rule  would only apply to California.

Beyond that, every other State would be able to decide what works  best for them. Despite what has been suggested, this rule never  required 100 percent zero-emission vehicle sales for any class of  truck.

Both new and used diesel-powered trucks, buses, and vans will be  available for purchase in California and elsewhere in our United  States. The rule also includes numerous flexibility measures to help  auto manufacturers comply with the standards. The reality is, there are  hundreds of different models of zero-emission, medium-, and heavy-duty  vehicles available for sale today. Major fleets are making the  conversion to pollution-free vehicles. Prices are coming down, and more  charging infrastructure is being built.

Perhaps, most importantly, these vehicles have the potential to  contribute to a tremendous reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and  traditional air pollution. Reducing this pollution will, indeed,  improve health outcomes, result in fewer hospitalizations and missed  days of school and work, and avoid thousands of premature deaths. Let's  stop with this CRA overreach and attack on States' rights to allow  California to move forward with ushering in the next generation of  heavy-duty vehicle innovation.

Madam Speaker, I urge Members to oppose this resolution.