Stop Trump's Chaos--Stand Up for Science


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691396/stop-trumps-chaos-stand-up-for-science


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Stevens for the kind  introduction. I thank Representative Subramanyam for cohosting this  showcasing of supporters of science and tech in our economy and the  investments that we can make in our government.

No nation can maintain its leadership status in the world without  investments made and attention paid to science, to science technology,  engineering, and math.

It is essential that we grow that population of scientists, of  engineers who can then provide for the muscle of our innovation  economy, to allow for that intellectual capacity of this great Nation  and the pioneer spirit of this Nation to continue to foster this growth  of product delivery that speaks to the quality of life of people across  this great world.

We as a nation have been a leader. I think back to the humble  beginnings of this Nation. In the 1800s, there was a development of the  Erie Canal in upstate New York that is still looked to as perhaps the  first tech corridor.

The eastern mouth of that Erie Canal is included in the geography  that I serve in New York's 20th Congressional District, in the greater  capital region. Along that canal, we not only provided for a great  connection of a great ocean, the Atlantic, with the Great Lakes that  inspired a westward movement into the midland of our country, into the  States that border the Great Lakes.

With that came the development of a necklace of communities dubbed  ``mill towns'' that became the epicenters of invention and innovation,  that inspired all sort of product delivery and responses to the needs  of this world, and impacted favorably not only the quality of life in  our United States but in nations around the world.

That whole history, that powerful statement of what can be created  when we invest in our manufacturing, in our technology, in our science  community is proof that we need to continue forward in that vein.

Since January, Donald Trump and his political allies have launched a  full-scale assault on America's scientific enterprise. Federal  investments in science power nearly every aspect of our modern life,  medical breakthroughs, clean air and water, accurate weather forecasts,  safe food, and real solutions to the climate crisis.

This administration has made their position painfully clear. They  simple many don't care. Instead, they are injecting partisan politics  into research, censoring scientists, punishing experts, and pulling  funding from projects that challenge their narrow ideology. They don't  care about protecting communities from the climate disaster, and we are  going to continue to write checks for disaster aid if we continue this  ignoring of climate change.

They don't care about preventing the next pandemic. We have learned  that science became very much focused upon during the whole COVID  crisis. They don't care about making STEM more inclusive, and they  certainly don't care if Americans suffer as a result.

This isn't just wrong, it is a blatant attack on scientific  integrity. Integrity in research is essential, essential to scientific  excellence and to maintaining the public's trust.

That is why, as an engineer and lifelong advocate for science, I have  made it one of my top priorities in Congress to right the ship of  American science policy.

As part of that effort, I am indeed proud to lead the bipartisan  Scientific Integrity Act. Tomorrow, we will be the launching of the  Scientific Integrity Task Force to continue the fight to protect  science from political interference.

Hands off science. Let that pure product of research get delivered to  those decisionmakers, those policymakers, and let us determine what  those findings mean in terms of the need for additional policy and  research advocacy. Let us do it in the purest sense.

New York's 20th Congressional District has felt the effects of these  attacks firsthand. Over $715 million in National Science Foundation  grants have been terminated in New York's 20th Congressional District  alone, including a $1 million award to the University at Albany's  Project SAGES.

Project SAGES was created to confront one of the deepest, most  persistent inequities in science, and that is the underrepresentation  of women, especially women of color, in faculty positions. This was  peer-reviewed, data-driven, mission-critical science, and we need to  make certain that we continue to build upon that.

Cutting this program sends a clear message to a generation of  researchers: You don't belong.

It doesn't stop there. Another canceled UAlbany NSF grant supported a  collaborative study to improve public understanding of population  science, especially around climate change, racial justice, and the rise  of misinformation. The goal was to equip students in communities with  tools to recognize and challenge the misuse of demographic data, data  increasingly weaponized to justify political extremism and division.

Does that sound familiar? You bet it does.

SUNY campuses, the State University of New York campuses, across the  State lost almost $2.5 million in NSF support for programs helping  students of color succeed in STEM through research opportunities,  mentorships, and academic support. These students are the future of a  diverse and dynamic scientific workforce, and this administration  slammed the door in their faces.

Let's be clear. These cuts are not about efficiency. They are not  about  fiscal responsibility. They are rooted in racist, sexist, and  authoritarian ideology.

I will not stay silent while extremists attack our scientists, our  students, our universities, and our future.

We are woefully underproducing scientists and engineers in our  society. You can look at the growth of those communities in other  nations, other continents. This country is woefully underproducing. We  do not have the luxury of walking away from any one demographic of  students out there based on gender, race, or ethnicity to meet our  goals. We cannot skip over any of those populations.

We must stand up--stand up for science, stand up for equity, and  stand up for the truth.