Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of 2025


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman from New Jersey for  yielding.

Mr. Chair, SAMHSA's stated mission is to lead public health and  service delivery efforts that promote mental health, prevent substance  misuse, and provide treatments and supports to foster recovery while  ensuring access to better outcomes for all.

It is not an exaggeration to say that the public servants at SAMHSA  work  every day to prevent overdoses and suicides and save lives.

As a longtime champion for behavioral health parity and access to  treatment and as co-chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment,  and Recovery Caucus, bipartisan in nature, there have been a few  questions on my mind.

For instance, how many public servants need to be fired at SAMHSA  before we say enough? How many suicide prevention trainings need to be  canceled before Republicans can speak out? How many lifesaving naloxone  trainings need to be canceled for Republicans to say anything? How many  lives need to be lost before Republicans tell the Trump administration  to stop the decimation of SAMHSA?

I have other questions, too. They are simple ones like: How many  people work at SAMHSA currently? What divisions have no staff left at  all? What programs have they had to cut in local communities?

In February, following the firing of probationary employees, I  started asking these questions. Since the firing of nearly 50 percent  of SAMHSA's staff, I have continued asking those questions. To date, I  have gotten zero answers--zero.

Currently, we have lost 50 percent of SAMHSA's staff, and it is not  HHS or the Trump administration that shared that with Congress. We only  have confirmation that SAMHSA lost half of its staff from the press and  from the former SAMHSA employees. That simply is unacceptable.

As a Congress, if we say we care about behavioral health and if we  say there is a crisis, then we should be ashamed that we are okay not  knowing this. For 4 months, we have been asking questions. Instead of  answers, we have even more concerning questions.

I shared with our Committee on Energy and Commerce chair that, as the  committee that has jurisdiction over SAMHSA, how do we not have these  very important answers? This affects every community in the country,  and our first action should be finding out these answers.

If the administration refuses to come in, then let's bring in the  fired employees. These people are some of the most dedicated public  servants who did this work for all of the right reasons, and they  served an incredible need.

On behalf of all Americans, I thank all of the fired SAMHSA employees  for their service to our Nation. They deserved better. Frankly, all  Americans deserved better. Our loved ones should have access to  effective addiction treatment, prevention and recovery support, and  behavioral health support and services.

The recent actions of this Trump administration are betraying the  goal of access to behavioral health treatment and support. RFK and  Donald Trump have proposed to eliminate SAMHSA as an independent  agency, burying it somewhere in the so-called Administration for a  Healthy America, or AHA.

Let's remember that the whole reason Congress moved SAMHSA into an  independent agency was to ensure that behavioral health was prioritized  despite the longstanding stigma.

Instead, AHA would take us back to the time that behavioral health is  tucked away in another agency and deprioritized. When the agency is  gutted, the programs and the mission suffer. Ultimately, the  individuals we are trying to help with their mental health and  substance use struggles will simply not get the support they need.  People will die.

I beg my colleagues on the other side of the aisle: Let's reverse  course. We have an obligation to protect SAMHSA's mission and all of  our constituents who SAMHSA serves. Like many of my colleagues, I  support the programs in this package, but it is completely disingenuous  and, frankly, outrageous that Republicans are here today trying to pat  themselves on the back as doing something meaningful for those  struggling with addiction while the entire agency we are  authorizing programs for is being dismantled.

The people doing the work we are authorizing have all been fired, and  the administration is proposing even more draconian cuts for mental  health and substance use programs in the 2026 budget.

Mr. TONKO. Mr. Chair, give me a break. It is like we are trying to  heal a bullet wound with a Band-Aid. I am regrettably going to have to  vote ``no'' and would respectfully ask my Republican colleagues to  pause today's vote and, instead, focus our attention on responding to  the actual crisis at SAMHSA.

Let's stop this performance. Instead, let's do the right thing and  walk out right now and meet, make calls, and work together to stop this  madness. Let's actually do something to meet this moment before it is  too late and we no longer have an agency focused on behavioral health.

This is truly a performative vote if Republicans are too scared to  say anything when the agency is being decimated and the mission is on  the line. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to go home  and say they voted for support, but my colleagues won't mention that.  It will never be implemented because the funding and staff are gone.

Let's return to my initial question: How many lives need to be lost  before Republicans tell the Trump administration to stop the decimation  of SAMHSA? If Republicans go forward with this vote today while staying  silent as this administration takes the chain saw to SAMHSA, then it is  clear that my Republican colleagues are willing to let SAMHSA lose all  of its capacity to serve its mission to save lives.