Timothy O'clair and Mental Health Parity


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692435/timothy-oclair-and-mental-health-parity


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge all of us to demand  mental health parity enforcement in honor of a young man that I once  represented, Timothy O'Clair.

I first met Timothy when I served in the State Assembly in New York.  Timothy played Little League and had a smile and spirit that burned  incredibly bright. He played in the chess club and was an avid bowler.

Timothy enjoyed gymnastics, playing the piano, fishing, golfing,  boating, and drawing. He enjoyed the outdoors and was an avid animal  lover. However, Timothy suffered from significant mental health  challenges, and his family struggled along with him, fighting with  insurance companies to get him the care he truly needed.

The insurance companies didn't know the Timothy that I knew. Where we  all saw an extraordinary little guy in a fight for his own life, the  insurance company saw expenses in a ledger book. They put caps on his  care and denied coverage for needed mental health treatment. When  Timothy received the care he needed, he thrived. However, his family  always knew that those caps and denials of coverage were right around  the corner.

Things got worse for Timothy. In order to get him the Medicaid  coverage he needed, Timothy's parents were forced to legally disown  him. Can you imagine being forced to make that decision in your own  family? Unfortunately, for Timothy, even that was not enough.

At 12 years old, Timothy completed suicide.

Timothy's memory will never leave me. His spirit inspired me and a  number of other committed advocates to write and advance Timothy's Law  in New York State, one of the first mental health parity laws in our  country.

Specifically, Timothy's Law required parity in insurance plans  between mental health and general health benefits.

Passing Timothy's Law gave me the drive to improve the way that we  approach mental health care in America nationwide.

To me, that means reducing the stigma for those seeking care,  addressing the growing problem of the youth behavioral health crisis,  and giving our healthcare professionals the resources they truly need  to adequately recognize and address the challenges those who live with  mental illness must grapple with each and every day.

It also means ensuring that parity is fully enforced.

At the Federal level, the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental  Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008 sought to correct the  imbalance between the benefits afforded mental health and substance use  disorders under group health plans and general medical and surgical  benefits typically afforded under such plans.

Mr. Speaker, 15-plus years later, we still are seeing major gaps in  access and affordability between mental health and physical healthcare  and the need for better enforcement of this law.

For example, studies show that insured people are nearly four times  as likely to go out of network and pay higher fees for mental health  care than for physical healthcare. With one in five Americans impacted  by mental health disorders, we must do better.

After many years of engaging on this issue and Congress passing more  laws to strengthen parity, I was excited to see the Biden-Harris  administration push to update the final parity rules which will allow  for greater access to mental health and substance use disorder care.

These regulations implemented an update in the law to close gaps and  improve compliance with parity, which is critical for the 84.5 million  Americans with these conditions.

I had hoped that these rules would finally clarify and strengthen  protections, while reducing barriers to treatment for mental health.  These rules would have required health plans to make changes when they  are providing inadequate access to mental health and substance use  care.

These rules would have made clear that plans cannot use more  restrictive prior authorization, or other medical management  techniques, or narrower networks to make it harder for people to access  mental health and substance use disorder benefits than their medical  benefits.

These rules would also have closed loopholes and required more than  200 additional health plans to comply with the parity law, providing  critical protections to 120,000 consumers.

However, in response to a recent lawsuit, the Trump administration  released an announcement that it no longer plans to enforce the 2024  regulations to protect individuals with mental health conditions and  substance use disorders from discrimination in health insurance.

Together with 17 of my colleagues, I have written to the Trump  administration urging them to reverse course on this senseless  decision. We shared our strong bipartisan sentiment that this decision  ``marks a dangerous step in the wrong direction.''

We shared that it is clear that health plans are still consistently  violating the law and systematically limiting access to mental health  and substance use disorder care. Rather than pausing enforcement or  reconsidering the regulations, now is the time to strengthen  enforcement and meaningfully provide and protect our constituents from  discrimination and improve access to care.

There are so many more like Timothy out there right now suffering and  in very real danger of losing access to lifesaving treatment. Instead  of denying them that care, let's support enforcement of our mental  health and addiction parity laws.

For Timothy and his family and friends, the battle continues to  achieve this.