Commending Omar Martinez Gonzalez


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697836/commending-omar-martinez-gonzalez


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor my constituent, Omar  Martinez Gonzalez. Omar is an advocate fighting for the resources that  immigrant, Black, Brown, and underserved communities need and deserve  to prevent, treat, and end the HIV/AIDS epidemic.

As a queer Latino immigrant, Omar has experienced firsthand the  importance of high-quality, culturally competent healthcare and HIV  prevention services. His experience has motivated him to build a world  where no one is denied quality healthcare services because of their  background, citizenship status, identity, or circumstance.

For almost two decades, from Chicago to Boston, this young man has  implemented and coordinated health programs to increase access to HIV  testing and prevention. He has fought for the rights and dignity of our  neighbors living with HIV or AIDS, including our LGBTQI+ community and  undocumented neighbors, and has advocated to protect and expand the  funding necessary to end the HIV epidemic.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, it  is my honor to commend Omar Martinez Gonzalez for his work to ensure  that our neighbors, no matter their sexual orientation, gender  expression, ZIP Code, background, HIV status, or citizenship status  receive every single thing they need and deserve to live healthy,  thriving lives. I congratulate Omar.                             Honoring Mario Vega

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Mario Vega for his  work to create spaces that uplift our young people and build safe and  thriving communities.

Mario has transformed his own personal experiences, growing up in  Chicago, to realize safety in our communities by investing in our  city's young people.

Through the establishment of the Chicago Youth Boxing Club, and as  the director of mentoring at New Life Centers, Mario understands that  building community and building relationships are the recipe for safer  neighborhoods. Through his mentorship of young people, including those  in my own community of Humboldt Park, he sees, values, and affirms  young people and supports their journey to find their confidence and  purpose.

Mario's work has been recognized in ``Beacons of Hope: Stories of  Strength from Chicago,'' but the true measure of his impact is seen in  the violence epidemic he interrupts and the young people who, as a  result, chart a new path for themselves full of possibilities.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, it is my honor  to commend Mario Vega for reminding us that when we invest in our  youth, we are actually investing in peace. I congratulate Mario.                           Recognizing Rita Kollias

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, during this holiday season, which has been  so difficult for so many families, I rise to recognize the joy and hope  that Rita Kollias facilitates in DuPage County in Illinois' Third  Congressional District.

After serving for 10 years in the United States Marine Corps, Rita  has dedicated over 20 years of her life to coordinating the Marine  Corps Reserve DuPage County Toys for Tots program. The program  distributes thousands of toys to more than 25,000 children via a  network of local nonprofit organizations, churches, and community  agencies.

Whether she is coordinating drop-off sites, recruiting volunteers, or  searching for donated warehouse space, Rita's logistical skill set  matches her passion and her dedication.

Rita has described her late hours and working weekends with the  Marine Corps Reserve DuPage County Toys for Tots program as an  obsession, one she pursues as an expression of care for her local  community and area families. For her neighbors, her obsession ensures  that children in our communities feel seen and valued.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District and this House of  Representatives, I acknowledge that these holidays are more brightened  because of Rita. It is my honor to commend Rita Kollias. I thank her  for her service.