End Cruel Immigration Enforcement Against Kids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701419/end-cruel-immigration-enforcement-against-kids


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to share Steven's story. Who is  Steven some may ask?

Steven is a constituent, and he is a 14-year-old boy, an eighth  grader with autism, who spent 66 days incarcerated in Dilley  Immigration Processing Center.

Steven and his dad are finally back home with their family and the  community that loves them. However, this past Monday, I accompanied  Steven and his father, Victor, to their check-in at ICE. I witnessed  firsthand the pain and the trauma caused by the cruelty of separation  and detention. Each day that Steven spent in inhumane and unsanitary  conditions in Dilley took a toll on this little boy.

Steven didn't want to go to his check-in on Monday because the last  time he showed up for the check-in with his father as he had been told,  he was kidnapped for 66 days.

When he got there and he saw me, he was grateful, but I can see the  great distress in the face of this little boy. I saw a child as we went  in for his check-in cower in the corner of a chair in the fetal  position with his ears covered because he was so afraid to hear the  words that he and his father heard the last time he was there. He was  so afraid of going back to detention.

Let me say it and let me say it loud and clear in the people's House.  Shame on every person in this country who thinks it is acceptable to  terrorize children. Shame on you who talk about being the party of  children and family who is locking them up in cages, who is separating  them from their loved ones, from their community, denying them from  air, from Sun, from play, from laughter, from joy, and every single  thing a baby, a child deserves.

President Mandela said: ``There can be no keener revelation of a  society's soul than the way in which it treats its children.''

Incarcerating children is an evil, morally bankrupt practice that  calls into question any commitment our Nation has or claims to care  about their preciousness.

We must unleash our collective outrage. Don't look away and don't  normalize children in cages. We must demand that no other children  experience what Steven has experienced or more than 3,800 children have  experienced in ICE so far.

We will melt ICE, and I have a bill to do just that. We will  dismantle the Department of Homeland Security because, frankly, at this  juncture, nothing less is acceptable.