National Fair Housing Month: Amisha Patel


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690325/national-fair-housing-month-amisha-patel


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate longtime Chicago  leader, organizer, and my dear friend, Amisha Patel, for her nearly  three decades of civic engagement and community organizing.

From leading environmental justice efforts at just 19 years of age to  organizing Chicago care workers with SEIU Local 73, Amisha has  consistently united diverse communities to build power. Her work  developing thousands of leaders laid the groundwork for winning  affordable housing, quality education, and more in Chicago and across  the State of Illinois.

I am proud to have worked alongside Amisha during her 15 years as the  executive director of Grassroots Collaborative, where we opposed school  closures, championed affordable housing, and fought for critical  investments to our social safety net.

Amisha is a fighter for peace, justice, and community. As a three- time cancer survivor currently in treatment, I want her to know that we  are with her as she continues this fight.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, it is my sincere  honor to commend Amisha Patel for her lifetime of service organizing  our communities to fight for the future that we deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Amisha.               National Fair Housing Month: Carlos Ramirez-Rosa

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today during National Fair Housing  Month to honor Carlos Ramirez-Rosa, my constituent, my friend, and the  former 35th Ward alderman, for his legacy of leadership to realize  safe, affordable housing for all. Moreover, I want to congratulate him  on his recent appointment as CEO and superintendent of the Chicago Park  District.

In his decade as alderman of the 35th Ward, which includes Logan  Square, Hermosa, Irving Park, and Avondale, Carlos championed policies  to expand affordable housing and resist gentrification and  displacement. He has also led unapologetic efforts to expand  protections for immigrants, LGBTQ+ people, and workers in Chicago.

Carlos shifted the dynamics of local politics by making sure that  neighbors and constituents had power over land use, development, and  zoning. In doing so, Carlos modeled what a collaborative co-governance  approach to community development could look like and work.

It is how we resulted in tangible wins and how he was able to bring  those wins to communities, including the development of 100 units of  affordable housing in the heart of Logan Square in the Lucy Gonzalez  Parsons Apartments.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, it is my  privilege and my honor to commend Carlos Ramirez-Rosa for his  commitment to a fair, safe, and dignified life for all of his  neighbors.

``Se que continuara transformando nuestras comunidades. Y estoy  agradecida contigo, Carlos''; ``I know you will continue transforming  our communities. I am thankful for Carlos.''

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Carlos Ramirez-Rosa.

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, in commemoration of National Fair Housing  Month, I rise to recognize my constituent, affordable housing resident,  and community advocate, Deborah Suggs.

For over 50 years, Deborah has called home the Marian Park  Apartments, a Wheaton affordable housing community serving seniors and  families.

While raising her children, grandchildren, and now great- grandchildren, Deborah has brought together her community to organize  for the resources they need to thrive, whether it is secure  transportation for school, childcare for working families, or road and  pedestrian safety.

As a leader with DuPage United, Deborah has been successful in  imagining what safe, livable communities look like and building power  and coalition to realize those dreams for people in Wheaton.

I had the pleasure of meeting Deborah at one of my townhalls, where I  saw firsthand her passion to fight for herself, her family, her  community, and our district.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, it  is my honor to recognize Deborah for her lifetime of leadership in  Wheaton and for her advocacy for a fair, safe, and affordable  community. I thank Deborah.