Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I want to start by clarifying something  that was said on the Record. The sponsor of the resolution is stating  that Chuy Garcia has won his primaries with 100 percent of the vote.  All you have to do is go to the board of elections or BallotReady and  recognize that in 2024, in his last election, his opponent got 30  percent of the vote. I want to make sure that facts matter here, and  when there is misinformation, I wanted to clarify that.

Let me go ahead and say at a moment when so many Members of Congress  have conceded their power to Donald Trump, voting rights are on the  line, super-PACs continue to buy congressional seats, and the  representation of Black and Brown working families is threatened, this  resolution is nothing more than a cheap political stunt pulled from the  playbook of some of my Republican colleagues.

Do you want proof? Some of the ones that have been suppressing the  most votes have been clapping every time she speaks. It is a do-nothing  resolution that targets a leader who has been holding the line in  defense of democracy, someone who is not beholden to super-PACs, like  foreign lobbies or Big Oil, like the American Petroleum Institute. He  is someone who has voted against bills like the SAVE Act, which  endangers the voting rights of women in our country. He is someone who  voted against the Laken Riley Act, which allows the persecution and  racial profiling of Latinos by ICE agents. He is someone who voted  against the recent Republican continuing resolution, which did not  protect affordable healthcare and provided a slush fund for Senators  investigated for their role in the insurrection.

Chuy Garcia has stood his ground for working families and our  democracy in moments when others have not, including the sponsor of  this resolution of disapproval, who has opened the doors to  authoritarianism by the way she votes.

You don't have to agree with how the events of his decision to step  down unfolded to recognize that this resolution is misguided and  disingenuous.

Disapproving of his actions while you allow big money in politics,  outside spending in elections, and rampant corruption to go  unchallenged or uninterrupted is the height of hypocrisy.

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, while we need to hold each other to high  standards--we do--we also need to reform a system that too often makes  it nearly impossible to ensure working people like Chuy Garcia, like  me, and so many others here, are well represented in the face of  moneyed interests set on their destruction.

I invite you today to vote ``no'' on this performative, bad- intentioned resolution, and join me in getting dark money out of  politics, protecting and expanding voting rights in America, and  fighting for authentic representation of all our communities. Vote  ``no.''