Recognizing Bad Bunny


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692866/recognizing-bad-bunny


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, this Puerto Rican Heritage Month, I rise  to recognize Benito Antonio Martinez Ocasio, better known for many of  us as Bad Bunny, for his worldwide contribution to the arts, music, and  culture.

Born and raised in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico, Bad Bunny is a global  phenomenon. His songs transcend borders, sharing the vibrant culture of  Puerto Rico with millions, while stirring a deep sense of pride and  connection for Latinos across the globe.

His 2022 album ``Un Verano Sin Ti'' made history as the first  Spanish-language album nominated for the Grammy Award Album of the  Year. His recent album ``Debi Tirar Mas Fotos'' has inspired millions  as a powerful tribute to Puerto Rico and his hope for its freedom,  while reminding us of our shared struggle against imperialism,  colonialism, and displacement.

In addition to his music, Benito, Bad Bunny, has used his platform to  demand better from world leaders, condemn the xenophobia and anti- immigrant violence of this administration on the island and in this  country, and inspire us all to resist and fight back against oppressive  governments.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District and the home of  Paseo Boricua or Boricua Town, it is my honor to commend Bad Bunny for  using his artistry to unite diverse communities and give voice to our  shared experience. Gracias to Bad Bunny.

(Spanish translation of the statement made in English is as follows:)

En este Mes de la Herencia Puertorriquena, Yo me levanto a reconocer  a Benito Antonio Martinez Ocasio, mejor conocido como Bad Bunny, por su  contribucion a las artes, la musica y la cultura.

Nacido y criado en Vega Baja, Puerto Rico, Bad Bunny es un fenomeno  global. Sus canciones trascienden fronteras, compartiendo la vibrante  cultura puertorriquena con millones de personas en todo el mundo, a la  vez que despierta un profundo sentimiento de orgullo y conexion entre  los latinos de todo el mundo. El sabe que la musica y la cultura  tambien transciende en el corazon.

Su album de 2022, Un Verano Sin Ti, hizo historia como el primer  disco en espanol nominado al Premio Grammy como Album del Ano.

Su reciente album, Debi Tirar Mas Fotos, ha inspirado a millones como  un poderoso tributo a Puerto Rico y su esperanza por la libertad, a la  vez que nos recuerda nuestra lucha compartida contra el imperialismo,  el colonialismo y el desplazamiento.

Ademas de su musica, Benito ha usado su plataforma para exigirle  mejores resultados a los lideres mundiales, condenar la xenofobia y la  violencia antiinmigrante en la lsla y en este pais e inspirarnos a  todos a resistir y luchar contra los gobiernos opresores.

En nombre del Tercer Distrito Congresional de Illinois, casa de Paseo  Boricua, yo felicito a Bad Bunny por usar su talento para unir a  comunidades diversas y dar voz a nuestras experiencias compartidas.

Gracias, Bad Bunny.

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate a creative  designer, community cultivator, and artist--my constituent, Denise  Ruiz.

Denise is a queer Boricua from the Humboldt Park community of Chicago  and is the founder and director of The Honeycomb Network, a community  empowerment space proudly calling Barrio Boriken home.

With over two decades of direct social service and educator  experience, Denise has grown The Honeycomb Network to become a beloved  community hub.

In partnership with therapists, educators, artists, and community  care providers of diverse backgrounds, The Honeycomb Network provides a  hive for community to cowork, create, and sustain one another.

Through healing workshops, a community library, cultural events, and  beyond, the network has become a conduit for building community with  our neighbors.

I commend Denise and the entire network of artists, healers, and  creators who have shared their talents with the community, and I wish  them the best as they transition to new physical space in Denise's  home, Puerto Rico. Gracias and congratulations to Denise.                         Recognizing Justina Machado

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, in this Puerto Rican and Immigrant  Heritage Month, I rise to recognize one of Chicago's own, Justina  Machado, a celebrated actress and proud ``daughter,'' ``hija'' of  Chicago's northwest side.

Raised in a working-class Puerto Rican family, Ms. Machado's journey  from Lane Tech High School, which is also in my district, to the  Broadway stage and Hollywood screens is a testament to her talent, her  perseverance, and her deep cultural roots.

From her roles in HBO's ``Six Feet Under'' to Netflix' ``One Day at a  Time,'' and now the Tony-nominated Broadway adaptation of ``Real Women  Have Curves,'' Justina has beautifully played characters with immigrant  backgrounds.

Through her talent, she has brought visibility, dignity, and  complexity to the lives of Latinos and immigrant families who are too  often overlooked. Her performances speak not only to where she has been  but to who we are. We are resilient, we are proud, and full of  possibility.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, I commend  Justina Machado for using her voice and artistry to uplift our stories  and communities with grace, humor, and truth. Gracias and  congratulations to Justina.