Recognizing Frank Chapman


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698984/recognizing-frank-chapman


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the legacy of the Reverend  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., by commending a liberation leader, Frank  Chapman.

Frank's political education began in St. Louis, where he experienced  the violence of racism and repression and was wrongfully convicted and  sentenced to 50 years in prison during his twenties. Yet Frank has  always been an organizer and educator.

Frank taught himself law and launched a movement to desegregate the  prison, where Black prisoners had faced brutal and inhumane treatment.  The bars in prison didn't break him or limit his spirit. On the  contrary, it propelled him to fight for the liberation of those  imprisoned and all people.

After his release, Frank established himself as a fixture in the  struggle for liberation in Chicago and beyond. Whether through his  leadership in the Chicago Alliance Against Racist and Political  Repression, his successful campaigns for community control of the  police, or his solidarity with immigrant communities in the fight to  protect our neighbors from ICE, Frank has consistently fought to defend  the most fundamental of our collective human rights and our shared  liberation.

Mr. Speaker, this week carries profound significance for Frank. It  marks the 50th anniversary of his release from prison.

I am honored on behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District to  commend Frank Chapman for his lifelong commitment to building the  beloved community, championing civil and human rights, and practicing  solidarity across our intersections, our identities, and our issues.

I thank and congratulate Frank for all of his efforts, and all power  to the people.                    Recognizing Juliet De Jesus Alejandre

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor my constituent, Juliet De  Jesus Alejandre.

Juliet is a triracial Latina who honors her African and indigenous  ancestry with roots in Ecuador and Puerto Rico. She is a healer,  organizer, poet, visionary, and she is the current executive director  of Palenque LSNA.

Juliet's love for Black, Brown, indigenous, and immigrant communities  and her bold vision of collective liberation is deeply rooted in  healing, joy, and solidarity, especially among young Latinos and  ``madres immigrantes''; ``immigrant mothers.''

To fight erasure, she connects young leaders to their history and  genealogy. To fight displacement, she builds collective ownership. To  fight dehumanization, she offers mutual support and collective care.

Through her artistry and creativity, she invokes our ancestral  histories as she casts visions that help us to imagine new ways forward  that leave all of our communities better and stronger.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, it is my honor  to commend Juliet De Jesus Alejandre for her bold, loving, and creative  leadership that builds people power to shape our future because we know  ``el pueblo unido jamas sera vencido''; ``the people united shall never  be defeated.''

Mr. Speaker, I thank and congratulate Juliet for all of her work.