Recognizing Elizabeth Ramirez


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701300/recognizing-elizabeth-ramirez


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor a  fierce advocate for justice and a tireless champion for gun violence  prevention, Elizabeth Ramirez.

On a tragic night almost 15 years ago, Elizabeth's son, Harry  Rodriguez, was fatally shot, giving his life to protect his family  members when a masked assailant opened fire during his 23rd birthday  celebration.

From the depths of unimaginable grief, Elizabeth transformed her pain  into purpose. She cofounded Parents for Peace and Justice in Belmont  Cragin, in Illinois-03, to not only advocate for stronger gun violence  prevention measures but to provide essential support to families who  have been impacted by gun violence.

Elizabeth provides courtroom support for families. She organizes  peace walks and hosts vigils throughout communities to ensure that no  family member has to navigate the profound pain of losing a loved one  to violence alone.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, I am proud to  commend Elizabeth Ramirez for her relentless hope and for her essential  work to help our communities recover from violence and loss.

I thank Elizabeth, and may her son rest in peace and power.                         Recognizing Jessica Esquivel

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor my constituent, Dr.  Jessica Esquivel.

Jessica is a queer, Afro-Latine, particle physicist, disruptor,  author, and visionary who has made it her personal mission to ensure  the success of underrepresented communities in the sciences.

As one of the few Afro-Latine, queer women in the world of STEAM,  Jessica embraces all facets of her identity, unapologetically existing  in spaces that have historically excluded people who look like her or  identify as she does.

Through her work as an associate scientist at Fermilab, her  leadership as cofounder of Oyanova Enterprises, and her creation of  Twitter movement #blackinphysics, she has fostered opportunities for  Black and Brown leaders to thrive through culturally relevant STEAM  programming, mental  health advocacy, and countless other initiatives.

Jessica's work reveals the critical intersection of science,  identity, and culture, demonstrating how diverse perspectives are  essential to solving the challenges of our time.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, it is my honor  to commend Dr. Jessica Esquivel for blazing trails and reminding us  that all is possible when we lift others as we climb.

I congratulate Dr. Esquivel on her success.                           Recognizing Mary Santana

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Mary Santana, a  visionary whose leadership has built transformative, creative spaces  that uplift our young people in Illinois-03 and beyond.

Mary is the founder and executive director at the Miracle Center, an  organization that reflects her belief that community, creativity, and  care have the power to change lives. The Miracle Center is a beacon for  diverse youth and families, offering mentoring, coaching, training, and  academic support, all grounded in the arts.

What started as a small day camp run out of her basement apartment  has, over the last 30 years, grown to impact over 20,000 young people  across Chicago. Mary has ensured that The Miracle Center nurtures  diverse local artists, showcases BIPOC artistry, and uplifts unique  perspectives. Under her leadership, The Miracle Center has grown,  acquiring a dedicated building near my district office offering Latino  artists a platform for performance.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, I am proud to  commend Mary Santana for bringing the power of art to our communities  and establishing The Miracle Center in Illinois Three as a space where  young people can explore their creative dreams and know that nothing is  impossible when you dream and you have community.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mary and congratulate and commend her on this  House floor.