Restoring Election Integrity


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699241/restoring-election-integrity


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, 16 years ago, the Supreme Court overturned  a longstanding precedent that protected working families' voices in our  democracy.

By embracing this idea that corporations are entitled to the same  speech rights as people, the Supreme Court opened the floodgates to  unchecked corporate influence in governance and billionaire political  spending.

The Supreme Court effectively put a price tag on representation. They  put a price tag on the seats of this Chamber and they put a price tag  on our democracy. But today I will make sure that I am clear in the  House of Representatives: Our democracy is not for sale.

Our democracy is weaker when the voices of Black, Brown, middle- and  low-income folks are drowned out by the volumes of ads a million  dollars can buy.

Since the Citizens United decision, outside spending by super-PACs  and dark money groups has exploded at every single level of government.

The Trump administration and Republicans in Congress are a clear  example. We know that to make Trump and their billionaire bosses happy,  my colleagues, bought by big, corporate money, will leave working  people unhoused. They will leave them foreclosed. They will leave them  detained, deported, poor, hungry, sick, uninsured, and drowning,  literally and figuratively.

It is time we finally prioritize a democracy that works for working  people. One where Donald, where Elon, where Jeff, and all these  billionaires pay their fair share. Their money has to be out of our  elections and out of the White House, and their hands out of the  working people's pockets and off our services, where our rights and our  freedoms mean working people have every single thing they need to  thrive.

We need bold legislative action if we are going to end corruption and  get big money out of politics and get their corporate influence out of  our communities.

That is why last year, I filed the Campaign Transparency Act and the  Stop the Super PAC-Candidate Coordination Act and supported the  Abolishing Super PACs Act. And today, as we are here during Special  Order hour, I am proud to announce that I will also be introducing the  Lobbyist Loophole Closure Act with Representatives Mullin and Williams.

That bill addresses the loopholes created by the Lobbyist Disclosure  Act. The bill includes provisions to increase transparency and  accountability by broadening the definition of lobbying and by also  lowering the time threshold for registration.

Mr. Speaker, I will close by thanking End Citizens United and its  president Tiffany Muller for all the work that they are doing to get  dark money out of politics and that we ensure a democracy by the people  for the people. It is time we end this, and I know that collectively we  can do it.