Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688474/womens-history-month


Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate Women's  History Month by uplifting my dear friend, a powerful organizer,  Erendira ``Ere'' Rendon.

Ere has dedicated her life to fighting for the dignity and liberation  of immigrant communities.

Hailing from Oaxaca, Mexico, Ere immigrated to the United States in  1990 to be reunited with her father. Ere is 1 of 530,000 from the  roughly 3.6 million Dreamers receiving DACA, a program that has been  viciously attacked in this Chamber. Inspired by her family's and her  own experiences, Ere has fought to expand and affirm immigrant rights,  ensuring access to driver's licenses, healthcare regardless of legal  status, and funding for necessary legal services.

For nearly 15 years, Ere has organized at the Resurrection Project  helping to found the Immigrant Justice Department where she serves as  vice president.

Ere is one of the countless ``powerful women,'' ``poderosas mujeres''  leaders organizing to protect and unite our communities reminding us  that immigrants make our communities stronger.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, it is my honor  to commend Erendira Rendon in this day for her lifelong commitment to  ensuring that immigrant communities are seen and that immigrants are  valued, uplifted, and loved just as she is.

Congratulations to Ere.                                     Powerful Women

Mrs. RAMIREZ. At a time of unserious efforts to establish English as  the official language of the United States, I rise today to celebrate  my constituent, Angelica Garcia Santos, in a language proudly spoken in  Illinois' Third Congressional District.

(English translation of the statement made in Spanish by Mrs. Ramirez  is as follows:)

In honor of Women's Month, I congratulate community leader and  activist Angelica Garcia Santos, my West Chicago constituent.

Angelica began volunteering at IL03's non-profit immigrant advocacy  organization, Casa Michoacan, where she now serves as coordinator.

At Casa Michoacan, Angelica provides resources to connect her  immigrant neighbors with their community and inform them about their  rights.

As an activist, Angelica has also helped advocate for the expansion  of healthcare for immigrants, inspired by her own experiences with the  healthcare system.

Angelica is one of countless community leaders in my district who  feel the urgency of this moment as my Republican colleagues move  forward with devastating cuts to federal programs like Medicaid.

Angelica's activism reminds us how much our immigrants contribute to  our communities and shape the change they know we need.

On behalf of Illinois' 3rd Congressional District, it is my great  honor to congratulate Angelica Garcia Santos for her activism,  leadership, and advocacy.

Thank you, Angelica.

En honor al Mes de la Mujer, felicito a la lider comunitaria y  activista Angelica Garcia Santos, mi constituyente de West Chicago.

Angelica comenzo como voluntaria en la organizacion sin fines de  lucro de defensa de los inmigrantes de IL03, Casa Michoacan, donde  ahora se desempena como coordinadora.

En Casa Michoacan, Angelica brinda recursos para conectar a sus  vecinos inmigrantes con su comunidad e informales sobre sus derechos.

Como activista, Angelica tambien ha ayudado a defender la expansion  del cuidado medico para inmigrantes, inspirada por sus propias  experiencias con el sistema de salud.

Angelica es una de los innumerables lideres comunitarios de mi  distrito que siente la urgencia de este momento en el que mis colegas  republicanos avanzan con recortes devastadores a programas federales  como Medicaid.

El activismo de Angelica nos recuemrda cuanto contribuyen nuestros  inmigrantes a nuestras comunidades y dan forma al cambio que saben que  necesitamos.

A nombre del tercer distrito del Congreso de Illinois, es un gran  honor para mi felicitar a Angelica Garcia Santos por su activismo,  liderazgo y defensa.

Gracias, Angelica.

Mrs. RAMIREZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to commemorate Women's History  Month and to celebrate the rich contributions of Ukrainians in  Illinois-03 by uplifting my constituent, Dr. Mariya Dmytriv-Kapeniak,  for her work to honor our shared humanity.

A family medicine doctor, Dr. Dmytriv-Kapeniak exemplifies putting  together our vocation into service for humanity. As a proud member of  the Illinois Chapter of Ukrainian Medical Association of North America  and the president of the Illinois division of Ukrainian Congress  Committee of North America, she has secured medical donations and  supply donations to help save lives in Ukraine.

This past Sunday I had the honor to stand with her and Ukrainian  Americans at a Chicago rally to send a clear message: We who stand for  democracy will not be bullied by dictators, not in Ukraine, not in  other parts of the world, and not in the United States.

On behalf of Illinois' Third Congressional District, home to  thousands of Ukrainians and Ukrainian Americans, it is my honor to  commend Dr. Mariya Dmytriv-Kapeniak for her tremendous leadership and  commitment to human dignity, to peace, and to democracy.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mariya and congratulate her.