U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Rules of Procedure


Convening of Meetings

1.1. The regular meeting day of the Select Committee on       Intelligence for the transaction of Committee business shall       be every Tuesday of each month that the Senate is in session,       unless otherwise directed by the Chairman.

1.2. The Chairman shall have authority, upon notice, to       call such additional meetings of the Committee as the       Chairman may deem necessary and may delegate such authority       to any other member of the Committee.

1.3. A special meeting of the Committee may be called at       any time upon the written request of five or more members of       the Committee filed with the Clerk of the Committee.

1.4. In the case of any meeting of the Committee, other       than a regularly scheduled meeting, the Clerk of the       Committee shall notify every member of the Committee of the       time and place of the meeting and shall give reasonable       notice which, except in extraordinary circumstances, shall be       at least 24 hours in advance of any meeting held in       Washington, D.C. and at least 48 hours in the case of any       meeting held outside Washington, D.C.

1.5. If five members of the Committee have made a request       in writing to the Chairman to call a meeting of the       Committee, and the Chairman fails to call such a meeting       within seven calendar days thereafter, including the day on       which the written notice is submitted, these members may call       a meeting by filing a written notice with the Clerk of the       Committee who shall promptly notify each member of the       Committee in writing of the date and time of the meeting.                          Rule 2. Meeting Procedures

2.1. Meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public       except as provided in paragraph 5(b) of rule XXVI of the       Standing Rules of the Senate.

2.2. It shall be the duty of the Staff Director to keep or       cause to be kept a record of all Committee proceedings.

2.3. The Chairman of the Committee, or if the Chairman is       not present the Vice Chairman, shall preside over all       meetings of the Committee. In the absence of the Chairman and       the Vice Chairman at any meeting, the ranking majority       member, or if no majority member is present, the ranking       minority member present, shall preside.

2.4. Consistent with Senate rule XXVI and except as       otherwise provided in these Rules, decisions of the Committee       shall be by a majority vote of the members physically present       and voting. A quorum for the transaction of Committee       business, including the conduct of executive sessions, shall       consist of no less than one third of the Committee members,       except that for the purpose of       hearing witnesses, taking sworn testimony, and receiving       evidence under oath, a quorum may consist of one Senator.

2.5. A vote by any member of the Committee with respect to       any measure or matter being considered by the Committee may       be cast by proxy if the proxy authorization (1) is in       writing; (2) designates the member of the Committee who is to       exercise the proxy; (3) is limited to a specific measure or       matter and any amendments pertaining thereto; and (4) is       signed by the member wishing to cast a vote by proxy, either       by handwritten signature or autopen. Proxies shall not be       considered for the establishment of a quorum.

2.6. Whenever the Committee by roll call vote reports any       measure or matter, the report of the Committee upon such       measure or matter shall include a tabulation of the votes       cast in favor of and the votes cast in opposition to such       measure or matter by each member of the Committee.                            Rule 3. Subcommittees

Creation of subcommittees shall be by majority vote of the       Committee. Subcommittees shall deal with such legislation and       oversight of programs and policies as the Committee may       direct. The subcommittees shall be governed by the Rules of       the Committee and by such other rules they may adopt which       are consistent with the Rules of the Committee. Each       subcommittee created shall have a chairman and a vice       chairman who are selected by the Chairman and Vice Chairman,       respectively.               Rule 4. Reporting of Measures or Recommendations

4.1. No measures or recommendations shall be reported from       the Committee unless a majority of the Committee is       physically present and a majority concur.

4.2. In any case in which the Committee is unable to reach       a unanimous decision, separate views or reports may be       presented by any member or members of the Committee.

4.3. A member of the Committee who gives notice of       intention to file supplemental, minority, or additional views       at the time of final Committee approval of a measure or       matter, shall be entitled to not less than three weekdays in       which to file such views, in writing with the Clerk of the       Committee. Such views shall then be included in the Committee       report and printed in the same volume, as a part thereof, and       their inclusion shall be noted on the cover of the report.

4.4. Routine, non-legislative actions required of the       Committee may be taken in accordance with procedures that       have been approved by the Committee pursuant to these       Committee Rules.                             Rule 5. Nominations

5.1. Unless otherwise ordered by a joint determination made       by the Chairman and Vice Chairman, nominations referred to       the Committee shall be held for at least 14 calendar days       before being voted on by the Committee.

5.2. Each member of the Committee shall be promptly       furnished a copy of all nominations referred to the       Committee.

5.3. Nominees who are invited to appear before the       Committee shall be heard in public session, except as       provided in Rule 2.1.

5.4. Unless otherwise ordered by a joint determination made       by the Chairman and Vice Chairman, no confirmation hearing       shall be held sooner than seven calendar days after receipt       of the background questionnaire, financial disclosure       statement, and responses to additional pre-hearing questions,       if transmitted.

5.5. The Committee vote to report a nomination shall not be       sooner than 48 hours after the Committee has received       transcripts of the confirmation hearing and responses to       post-hearing questions for the record, if transmitted, unless       the time limit is waived by unanimous consent of the       Committee.

5.6. No nomination shall be reported to the Senate unless       the nominee has filed a response to the Committee's       background questionnaire and financial disclosure statement       with the Committee and has undergone a background       investigation.

5.7. The Committee shall make public the vote of each       member on a nomination reported to the Senate.                            Rule 6. Investigations

No investigation shall be initiated by the Committee unless       at least five members of the Committee have specifically       requested the Chairman or the Vice Chairman to authorize such       an investigation. Authorized investigations may be conducted       by members of the Committee and/or designated Committee staff       members.                              Rule 7. Subpoenas

Subpoenas authorized by the Committee for the attendance of       witnesses or the production of memoranda, documents, records,       or any other material may be issued by the Chairman, the Vice       Chairman or any member of the Committee designated by the       Chairman, and may be served by any person designated by the       Chairman, Vice Chairman or member issuing the subpoenas. Each       subpoena shall have attached thereto a copy of S. Res. 400 of       the 94th Congress, as amended, and a copy of these Rules.            Rule 8. Procedures Related to the Taking of Testimony

8.1. Notice.--Witnesses required to appear before the       Committee shall be given reasonable notice and all witnesses       shall be furnished a copy of these Rules.

8.2. Oath or Affirmation.--At the direction of the Chairman       or Vice Chairman, testimony of witnesses may be given under       oath or affirmation which may be administered by any member       of the Committee.

8.3. Questioning.--Committee questioning of witnesses shall       be conducted by members of the Committee and such Committee       staff as are authorized by the Chairman, Vice Chairman, or       the presiding member.

8.4. Counsel for the Witness.--(a) Generally. Any witness       may be accompanied by counsel, subject to the requirement of       paragraph (b).

(b) Counsel Clearances Required. In the event that a       meeting of the Committee has been closed because the subject       matter was classified in nature, counsel accompanying a       witness before the Committee must possess the requisite       security clearance and provide proof of such clearance to the       Committee at least 24 hours prior to the meeting at which the       counsel intends to be present. A witness who is unable to       obtain counsel may inform the Committee of such fact. If the       witness informs the Committee of this fact at least 24 hours       prior to his or her appearance before the Committee, the       Committee shall then endeavor to obtain voluntary counsel for       the witness. Failure to obtain such counsel will not excuse       the witness from appearing and testifying.

(c) Conduct of Counsel for the Witness. Counsel for       witnesses appearing before the Committee shall conduct       themselves in an ethical and professional manner at all times       in their dealings with the Committee. Failure to do so shall,       upon a finding to that effect by a majority of the members       present, subject such counsel to disciplinary action which       may include warning, censure, removal, or a recommendation of       contempt proceedings.

(d) Role of Counsel for Witness. There shall be no direct       or cross-examination by counsel for the witness. However,       counsel for the witness may submit any question in writing to       the Committee and request the Committee to propound such       question to the counsel's client or to any other witness. The       counsel for the witness also may suggest the presentation of       other evidence or the calling of other witnesses. The       Committee may use or dispose of such questions or suggestions       as it deems appropriate.

8.5. Statements by Witnesses.--Witnesses may make brief and       relevant statements at the beginning and conclusion of their       testimony. Such statements shall not exceed a reasonable       period of time as determined by the Chairman, or other       presiding members. Any witness required or desiring to make a       prepared or written statement for the record of the       proceedings shall file an electronic copy with the Clerk of       the Committee, and insofar as practicable and consistent with       the notice given, shall do so at least 48 hours in advance of       his or her appearance before the Committee, unless the       Chairman and Vice Chairman determine there is good cause for       noncompliance with the 48 hours requirement.

8.6. Objections and Rulings.--Any objection raised by a       witness or counsel shall be ruled upon by the Chairman or       other presiding member, and such ruling shall be the ruling       of the Committee unless a majority of the Committee present       overrules the ruling of the chair.

8.7. Inspection and Correction.--All witnesses testifying       before the Committee shall be given a reasonable opportunity       to inspect, in the office of the Committee, the transcript of       their testimony to determine whether such testimony was       correctly transcribed. The witness may be accompanied by       counsel. Any corrections the witness desires to make in the       transcript shall be submitted in writing to the Committee       within five days from the date when the transcript was made       available to the witness. Corrections shall be limited to       grammar and minor editing, and may not be made to change the       substance of the testimony. Any questions arising with       respect to such corrections shall be decided by the Chairman.       Upon request, the Committee may provide to a witness those       parts of testimony given by that witness in executive session       which are subsequently quoted or made part of a public       record, at the expense of the witness.

8.8. Requests To Testify.--The Committee will consider       requests to testify on any matter or measure pending before       the Committee. A person who believes that testimony or other       evidence presented at a public hearing, or any comment made       by a Committee member or a member of the Committee staff, may       tend to affect adversely that person's reputation, may       request in writing to appear personally before the Committee       to testify or may file a sworn statement of facts relevant to       the testimony, evidence, or comment, or may submit to the       Chairman proposed questions in writing for the questioning of       other witnesses. The Committee shall take such action as it       deems appropriate.

8.9. Contempt Procedures.--No recommendation that a person       be cited for contempt of Congress or that a subpoena be       otherwise enforced shall be forwarded to the Senate unless       and until the Committee has, upon notice to all its members,       met and considered the recommendation, afforded the person an       opportunity to address such contempt recommendation or       subpoena enforcement proceeding either in writing or in       person, and agreed by majority vote of the Committee to       forward such recommendation to the Senate.

8.10. Release of Name of Witness.--Unless authorized by the       Chairman, the name of any witness scheduled to be heard by       the       Committee shall not be released prior to, or after, appearing       before the Committee. Upon authorization by the Chairman to       release the name of a witness under this paragraph, the Vice       Chairman shall be notified of such authorization as soon as       practicable thereafter. No name of any witness shall be       released if such release would disclose classified       information, unless authorized under Section 8 of S. Res. 400       of the 94th Congress, as amended, or Rule 9.      Rule 9. Procedures for Handling Classified or Committee Sensitive                                  Material

9.1. Committee staff offices shall operate under strict       security procedures administered by the Committee Security       Director under the direct supervision of the Staff Director       and Minority Staff Director. At least one United States       Capitol Police Officer shall be on duty at all times at the       entrance of the Committee to control entry. Before entering       the Committee office space all persons shall identify       themselves and provide identification as requested.

9.2. Classified documents and material shall be stored in       authorized security containers located within the Committee's       Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF). Copying,       duplicating, or removing from the Committee offices of such       documents and other materials is strictly prohibited except       as is necessary for the conduct of Committee business, and as       provided by these Rules. All classified documents or       materials removed from the Committee offices for such       authorized purposes must be returned to the Committee's SCIF       for overnight storage.

9.3. ``Committee sensitive'' means information or material       that pertains to the confidential business or proceedings of       the Select Committee on Intelligence, in the possession or       under the control of the Committee, and (1) is discussed or       presented in an executive session of the Committee; (2)       contains Committee work product; or (3) is designated as such       by the Chairman and Vice Chairman (or by the Staff Director       and Minority Staff Director acting on their behalf).       Committee sensitive documents and materials that meet these       criteria should be marked as such. Committee sensitive       documents and materials that are classified shall be handled       in the same manner as classified documents and material in       Rule 9.2. Unclassified committee sensitive documents and       materials shall be stored in a manner to protect against       unauthorized disclosure.

9.4. Each member of the Committee shall at all times have       access to all papers and other material received from any       source. The Staff Director shall be responsible for the       maintenance, under appropriate security procedures, of a       document control and accountability registry which will       number and identify all classified papers and other       classified materials in the possession of the Committee, and       such registry shall be available to any member of the       Committee.

9.5. Whenever the Select Committee on Intelligence makes       classified material available to any other committee of the       Senate or to any member of the Senate not a member of the       Committee, such material shall be accompanied by a verbal or       written notice to the recipients advising of their       responsibility to protect such materials pursuant to section       8 of S. Res. 400 of the 94th Congress, as amended. The       Security Director of the Committee shall ensure that such       notice is provided and shall maintain a written record       identifying the particular information transmitted and the       committee or members of the Senate receiving such       information.

9.6. Access to classified information supplied to the       Committee shall be limited to those Committee staff members       with appropriate security clearance and a need-to-know, as       determined by the Committee, and, under the Committee's       direction, the Staff Director and Minority Staff Director.

9.7. (a) No member of the Committee or of the Committee       staff shall disclose, in whole or in part or by way of       summary, the contents of any classified or committee       sensitive papers, materials, briefings, testimony, or other       information received by, or in the possession of, the       Committee to persons outside the Committee, except as       specified in this rule.

(b) Except as provided in subsection (c), with respect to       the classified annex to the Committee's report accompanying       the annual Intelligence Authorization Act, Committee members       and staff do not need prior approval to disclose       classified or committee sensitive information to persons       in the Executive branch, the members and staff of the       House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the       members and staff of the Senate, provided that the       following conditions are met: (1) for classified       information, the recipients of the information must       possess appropriate security clearances (or have access to       the information by virtue of their office); (2) for all       information, the recipients of the information must have a       need-to-know such information for an official governmental       purpose; and (3) for all information, the Committee       members and staff who provide the information must be       engaged in the routine performance of Committee       legislative or oversight duties.

(c) Except as authorized pursuant to subsection (d), the       classified annex to the Committee's report accompanying the       annual Intelligence Authorization Act may be disclosed only       to the Executive Branch, the members and staff of the House       Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the members       and staff of the Senate Committee on Appropriations if the       recipients possess the appropriate security clearance and a       need-to-know such information for the purpose of enacting an       appropriations or authorization bill which includes an       authorization or appropriation for intelligence agencies or       programs.

(d) Classified and committee sensitive information may be       disclosed to persons outside the Committee (to include any       congressional committee, Member of Congress, congressional       staff, or specified non-governmental persons who support       intelligence activities) with the prior approval of the       Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Committee, or the Staff       Director and Minority Staff Director acting on their behalf,       consistent with the requirements that classified information       may only be disclosed to persons with appropriate security       clearances and a need-to-know such information for an       official governmental purpose. Public disclosure of       classified information in the possession of the Committee may       only be authorized in accordance with Section 8 of S. Res.       400 of the 94th Congress, as amended.

9.8. Failure to abide by Rule 9.7 shall constitute grounds       for referral to the Select Committee on Ethics pursuant to       Section 8 of S. Res. 400 of the 94th Congress, as amended.       Prior to a referral to the Select Committee on Ethics       pursuant to Section 8 of S. Res. 400, the Chairman and Vice       Chairman shall notify the Majority Leader and Minority       Leader.

9.9. Before the Committee makes any decision regarding the       disposition of any testimony, papers, or other materials       presented to it, the Committee members shall have a       reasonable opportunity to examine all pertinent testimony,       papers, and other materials that have been obtained by the       members of the Committee or the Committee staff.

9.10. Attendance of persons outside the Committee at closed       meetings of the Committee shall be kept at a minimum and       shall be limited to persons with appropriate security       clearance and a need-to-know the information under       consideration for the execution of their official duties. The       Security Director of the Committee may require that notes       taken at such meetings by any person in attendance shall be       returned to the secure storage area in the Committee's       offices at the conclusion of such meetings, and may be made       available to the department, agency, office, committee, or       entity concerned only in accordance with the security       procedures of the Committee.

9.11. Attendance of agencies or entities that were not       formally invited to a closed proceeding of the Committee       shall not be admitted to the closed meeting except upon       advance permission from the Chairman and Vice Chairman, or by       the Staff Director and Minority Staff Director acting on       their behalf.                                rule 10. staff

10.1. For purposes of these rules, Committee staff includes       employees of the Committee, consultants to the Committee, or       any other person engaged by contract or otherwise to perform       services for or at the request of the Committee. To the       maximum extent practicable, the Committee shall rely on its       full-time employees to perform all staff functions. No       individual may be retained as staff of the Committee or to       perform services for the Committee unless that individual       holds appropriate security clearances.

10.2. The appointment of Committee staff shall be approved       by the Chairman and Vice Chairman, acting jointly, or, at the       initiative of both or either, be confirmed by a majority vote       of the Committee. After approval or confirmation, the       Chairman shall certify Committee staff appointments to the       Financial Clerk of the Senate in writing. No Committee staff       shall be given access to any classified information or       regular access to the Committee offices until such Committee       staff has received an appropriate security clearance as       described in Section 6 of S. Res. 400 of the 94th Congress,       as amended.

10.3. The Committee staff works for the Committee as a       whole, under the supervision of the Chairman and Vice       Chairman of the Committee. The duties of the Committee staff       shall be performed, and Committee staff personnel affairs and       day-to-day operations, including security and control of       classified documents and material, shall be administered       under the direct supervision and control of the Staff       Director. All Committee staff shall work exclusively on       intelligence oversight issues for the Committee. The Minority       Staff Director and the Minority Counsel shall be kept fully       informed regarding all matters and shall have access to all       material in the files of the Committee.

10.4. The Committee staff shall assist the minority as       fully as the majority in the expression of minority views,       including assistance in the preparation and filing of       additional, separate, and minority views, to the end that all       points of view may be fully considered by the Committee and       the Senate.

10.5. The members of the Committee staff shall not discuss       either the substance or procedure of the work of the       Committee with any person not a member of the Committee or       the Committee staff for any purpose or in connection with any       proceeding, judicial or otherwise, either during their tenure       as a member of the Committee staff or at any time thereafter,       except as directed by the Committee in accordance with       Section 8 of S. Res. 400 of the 94th Congress, as amended,       and the provisions of these rules, or in the event of the       termination of the Committee, in such a manner as may be       determined by       the Senate. The Chairman may authorize the Staff Director       and the Staff Director's designee, and the Vice Chairman       may authorize the Minority Staff Director and the Minority       Staff Director's designee, to communicate with the media       in a manner that does not divulge classified or committee       sensitive information.

10.6. No member of the Committee staff shall be employed by       the Committee unless and until such a member of the Committee       staff agrees in writing, as a condition of employment, to       abide by the conditions of the nondisclosure agreement       promulgated by the Select Committee on Intelligence, pursuant       to Section 6 of S. Res. 400 of the 94th Congress, as amended,       and to abide by the Committee's code of conduct.

10.7. As a precondition for employment on the Committee,       each member of the Committee staff must agree in writing to       notify the Committee of any request for testimony, either       during service as a member of the Committee staff or at any       time thereafter with respect to information obtained by       virtue of employment as a member of the Committee staff. Such       information shall not be disclosed in response to such       requests, except as directed by the Committee in accordance       with Section 8 of S. Res. 400 of the 94th Congress, as       amended, and the provisions of these rules or, in the event       of the termination of the Committee, in such manner as may be       determined by the Senate.

10.8. The Committee shall immediately consider action to be       taken in the case of any member of the Committee staff who       fails to conform to any of these Rules. Such disciplinary       action may include, but shall not be limited to, revocation       of the Committee sponsorship of the staff person's security       clearance and immediate dismissal from the Committee staff.

10.9. Within the Committee staff shall be an element with       the capability to perform audits of programs and activities       undertaken by departments and agencies with intelligence       functions. The audit element shall conduct audits and       oversight projects that have been specifically authorized by       the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Committee, acting       jointly through the Staff Director and Minority Staff       Director. Staff shall be assigned to such element jointly by       the Chairman and Vice Chairman, and staff with the principal       responsibility for the conduct of an audit shall be qualified       by training or experience in accordance with accepted       auditing standards.

10.10. The workplace of the Committee shall be free from       illegal use, possession, sale, or distribution of controlled       substances by its employees. Any violation of such policy by       any member of the Committee staff shall be grounds for       termination of employment. Further, any illegal use of       controlled substances by a member of the Committee staff,       within the workplace or otherwise, shall result in       reconsideration of the security clearance of any such staff       member and may constitute grounds for termination of       employment with the Committee.

10.11. All personnel actions affecting the staff of the       Committee shall be made free from any discrimination based on       race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap,       or disability.                 rule 11. preparation for committee meetings

11.1. Under direction of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman       designated Committee staff members shall brief members of the       Committee at a time sufficiently prior to any Committee       meeting to assist the Committee members in preparation for       such meeting and to determine any matter which the Committee       member might wish considered during the meeting. Such       briefing shall, at the request of a member, include a list of       all pertinent papers and other materials that have been       obtained by the Committee that bear on matters to be       considered at the meeting.

11.2. The Staff Director and/or Minority Staff Director may       recommend to the Chairman and the Vice Chairman the       testimony, papers, and other materials to be presented to the       Committee at any meeting. The determination whether such       testimony, papers, and other materials shall be presented in       open or executive session shall be made pursuant to the Rules       of the Senate and Rules of the Committee.

11.3. The Staff Director shall ensure that covert action       programs of the U.S. Government receive appropriate       consideration by the Committee no less frequently than once a       quarter.                        rule 12. legislative calendar

12.1. The Clerk of the Committee shall maintain a calendar       for the information of each Committee member showing the       measures introduced and referred to the Committee and the       status of such measures; nominations referred to the       Committee and their status; and such other matters as the       Committee determines shall be included. The calendar shall be       available to all members of the Committee.

12.2. Measures referred to the Committee may be referred by       the Chairman and/or Vice Chairman to the appropriate       department or agency of the Government for reports thereon.                          rule 13. committee travel

No member of the Committee or Committee Staff shall travel       on Committee business unless specifically authorized by the       Chairman and Vice Chairman. Requests for authorization of       such travel shall state the purpose and extent of the trip. A       full report shall be filed with the Committee when travel is       completed.                rule 14. suspension and amendment of the rules

14.1. These Rules may be modified, amended, or repealed by       the Committee, provided that a notice in writing of the       proposed change has been given to each member at least 48       hours prior to the meeting at which action thereon is to be       taken.

14.2. These Rules shall continue and remain in effect from       one Congress to the next Congress unless they are changed as       provided herein.