Venezuela


Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, today is a great day in America. Nicolas  Maduro--an indicted drug trafficker, an illegitimate communist dictator  who has the blood of hundreds of Arkansans and thousands of Americans  on his hands--is behind bars in a prison in New York. Again, he was an  illegitimate communist dictator, in league with all of America's  enemies around the world.

With the Venezuelan people crushed underneath his iron fist for  years, Maduro turned the country into a crossroads and a playground for  the likes of communist China, Cuba, Iran, Russia, and even Islamic  terrorists like Hezbollah.

I want to take this opportunity to commend the exceptional skill and  bravery of our troops, CIA officers, and FBI agents for executing such  an amazing military and intelligence operation that brought Maduro's  reign to an abrupt end. It is impossible to overstate the complexity of  this mission. But for our troops and our intelligence officers--whose  skill, professionalism, and bravery are unmatched in the world-- ``impossible'' isn't in their vocabulary.

I also commend President Trump for having the courage to take bold,  decisive, and audacious action against Nicolas Maduro. This action was  well within the President's constitutional authority. The operation was  in keeping with President Bush's operation to arrest the drug lord and  Panamanian President Manuel Noriega, in 1989. If anything, Maduro was  much worse than Noriega, and Venezuela now is even more vital  strategically than Panama was then.

Additionally, this operation did not violate the War Powers  Resolution. Even if you believe the War Powers Resolution is  constitutional, these troops were in and out of Venezuela in a couple  of hours.

Only the United States could execute such a dangerous and difficult  mission without the loss of a single American life. But instead of  celebrating Maduro's ouster and America's success, our Democratic  colleagues are determined to condemn the operation, all because  President Trump ordered it.

Consider that, in 2020, Senator Schumer criticized President Trump  for bragging ``about his Venezuela policy'' but failing to bring ``an  end to the Maduro regime.'' It sounds like a call for regime change to  me, just like Joe Biden's decision to increase the bounty on Maduro's  head seems like a call for Maduro to be apprehended and brought to  justice. Yet when President Trump did exactly that last weekend,  Senator Schumer said this is ``reckless.''

Also, consider Senator Murphy, who said, in 2019:

Getting rid of Maduro is good for the United States.

I agree. Unfortunately, he has changed his tune lately. The day after  Maduro's capture, Senator Murphy said:

The invasion of Venezuela has nothing to do with American       security.

Nothing.

He further said:

Venezuela is not a security threat to the [United States].

I disagree. I think it has more than a little to do with our national  security and our safety. I have heard from too many Arkansas mothers  and fathers whose children have died because of a  drug overdose. This operation was about protecting those families and  families like them, anyone who struggles with or who has lost a loved  one to addiction.

Again, Nicolas Maduro was an indicted drug trafficker and  narcoterrorist. He was in league with the very drug traffickers who are  in the business of killing our kids for profit. He didn't just tolerate  drug traffickers in Venezuela or lose control of his territory and  allow them to run wild; he was a drug trafficker.

I didn't conclude that alone. That was not President Trump's sole  decision or even President Biden's decision. That was the finding of a  grand jury made up of normal Americans, on more than one occasion.

As for the future of Venezuela, well, of course, it is ultimately up  to the Venezuelans. The interim authorities in charge in Venezuela  today know what we expect of them: Stop the drug trafficking and the  weapons trafficking. Accept the return of their refugees and migrants.  Release political prisoners. Expel the Iranians, the Cubans, the  Islamic terrorists, like Hezbollah operatives, who have turned  Venezuela into a launching pad for regional instability and threats to  America's interests.

It will be a difficult road. Our best source of leverage, though,  over the interim authorities is the quarantine that we have imposed on  their black market oil, which the Maduro regime used to enrich itself-- not just the regime but the senior leaders of the regime as well, if  you know anything about their spending habits or their tastes.

Yet this resolution--this very resolution we are debating--might very  well require the removal of our Navy ships from the Caribbean that are  enforcing the quarantine. Is that what our Democratic friends really  want--to let these Chavistas in control of the interim authorities  start exporting black market oil again, to keep themselves in power,  unaccountable not only to their own people but to America's vital  national security interests?

I will say I don't think so. I don't think our Democratic colleagues  want to let Venezuela start exporting black market oil again. I believe  they were genuine years ago, when they called for Maduro's ouster. I  believe they are genuine, now, when they condemn Maduro as an  illegitimate dictator and a drug trafficker, someone who repressed his  own people, even if they then immediately want to eat their cake and  have it too by saying that President Trump still shouldn't have removed  him. I think it is just that they are so blinded by their hatred of  President Trump that they feel they have to condemn this action in some  way.

Instead, why don't we just, as I said at the beginning, celebrate the  removal of a virulently anti-American, illegitimate communist dictator  who was trafficking drugs into our country and then help the Venezuelan  people build a bright future that restores the glories of their past,  turning a nation that was the most dangerous, anti-American country in  our backyard into the most stable and prosperous pro-American country  in our backyard.

So I urge a ``no'' vote against this resolution.