Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693649/department-of-defense-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. ELLZEY. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of this bill, and I  thank Chairman Cole for his leadership in getting this bill to the  floor quickly. The Defense Department cannot afford another 1-year CR.

Mr. Chair, I also thank Chairman Calvert for his vision and  commitment, and I thank the subcommittee staff, on both sides of the  aisle, for their hard work in crafting this legislation in a very short  time.

The bill before us today makes several notable and timely  investments. One of the most important investments is the Navy's sixth- generation fighter, F/A-XX. Our Navy, our joint force, and our future  combatant commanders need this aircraft.

Relying only on the Air Force's sixth-generation fighter, the F-47,  does not solve our air superiority challenge.

I am a fervent supporter of the F-47 and would have done everything  necessary to ensure that it was built. Unfortunately, some in the  Pentagon think this is an either/or choice. It is basic math.

We need more airframes, land-based and carrier-based, and we need to  complicate our adversary's targeting. We can't do either of those with  only the Air Force's planned buy.

We avoid war by ensuring that our enemy knows that we will win. We  win with both the F/A-XX and the F-47, not one or the other.

Don't take my word for it. Our high-ranking uniformed leaders,  warriors all, shared with us the importance of having both Air Force  and Navy sixth-generation fighters: Admiral Paparo, commander of the  INDOPACOM, a man for whom I have worked for, flown with, and highly  admire; General Allvin, chief of staff of the Air Force; Admiral Kilby,  the Acting CNO; and General Caine, our Chairman of the Joint Chiefs.

These experienced and highly decorated warfighters all see the  operational necessity of both generation-six aircraft, so who is  against it? Bean counters and academics are against it. Those wearing  suits to work, not uniforms. Many are well meaning, but many have  earned a nice living telling us we can't do something when we  absolutely can.

I challenge you to wonder if we would have won World War II with  those who provide hurdles for us instead of a smooth path.

What troubles me is that a couple of scientists, working deep inside  the Pentagon in a couple of wings that, frankly, don't need to be used,  have the power to counter the operational assessments of several four- stars.

I respect the work they do and the scope with which they do it, but  their spreadsheets shouldn't be the final word. A 3-year delay is a de  facto cancellation and a win for China, and China is watching. While  they are watching, they are building ships at a torrid pace. They have  three generation-six airplanes and aircraft carriers that they are  building at an astonishing rate.

China doesn't want us to build the F/A-XX because that opens the  Davidson window. If we do build it, it closes it. That is exactly why  we should.

Mr. Chair, that is exactly why I thank Chairman Calvert for the  generational investment in the F/A-XX.

Finally, I am humbled to be standing here in the well of the House  representing the patriots of Texas' Sixth, Americans who believe in a  strong national defense.

This bill makes smart investments in defense, in America's might, and  the prevention of war, but, if necessary, winning it.