Truth Telling with Math and Facts


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691519/truth-telling-with-math-and-facts


Mr. ELLZEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my honorable friend from Arizona  whose crusade against the debt is a  true public service. He has spent countless hours in here educating the  American people on the dangers of the debt for our country, and we  should all be grateful. I thank him for this time.

I also thank the folks here in the well who are working diligently to  always take down the words that we say, take down our votes, and work  day in and day out, allowing us to speak to the American people.

As we are about to enter Memorial Day, I wanted to bring attention to  someone that led me in my career in the Navy, that I fought with and  remember fondly. His memorial service is going to be this Friday, so I  would like to read his obituary and tell a quick story about a man that  we all know and loved and adored.

Bruce Fecht, born November 16, 1955, passed away March 16, 2025.

Captain Bruce William Fecht, U.S. Navy, retired, a true American  hero, passed away on March 16, 2025, at the age of 69. He was born in  Missoula, Montana, to Robert William Fecht and Marjorie June Fehr.

When he was a young boy, the family along with older sister Bobbi,  moved to Spokane, Washington, where the family grew to include his two  younger sisters, Rebecca and Brenda.

He went to Mead High School, where he was a standout basketball  player. He continued his education and basketball prowess at Spokane  Community College, eventually completing his electrical engineering  degree at the University of Washington.

His first job at AT&T offered the comfort of a 9-to-5 routine, but it  was the thrill of the flight that ultimately called him.

Bruce pursued his dream of becoming a naval aviator, applying to and  being accepted into AOCS in Pensacola, Florida. He was commissioned in  1982, and 1 year later in 1983, he received his wings of gold in  Beeville, Texas, marking the beginning of a distinguished career in the  skies.

For the next decade, Bruce, call sign Puppy, served with distinction  in various squadrons, including VF-124 Gunslingers, VF-111 Sundowners,  VF-126 Bandits, VF-1 Wolfpack, flying the iconic F-14A and F-14D  Tomcats along with the T-2C, A-4E, and F-16N.

He completed multiple deployments aboard aircraft carriers like the  Carl Vinson, Ranger, and Enterprise.

He also graduated from Navy Fighter Weapons School Adversary Course  and earned a master of science degree in systems management from the  University of Southern California.

Most famously he was selected as an extra for the movie ``Top Gun,''  which was filmed on site in Miramar, and can be seen in the Top Gun  photo used in the movie.

His career was defined not only by his technical skills and unmatched  piloting abilities but also by his leadership. After 14 years in the  cockpit, he transitioned to staff roles, including serving as the Pol- Mil officer at U.S. European Command in Stuttgart, Germany. There, he  played a key role in operations in the Middle East, focusing on Israel,  Lebanon, and Syria.

He returned to the cockpit in 1999, joining the VF-14 Tophatters as  executive officer, where I knew him, and, later, commanding officer.

During his leadership, the squadron earned numerous awards, including  the Clifton Trophy as the Navy's top fighter squadron, the Battle  Efficiency award, and the Safety ``S'' Award. Under his command, the  Tophatters were among the first to conduct air strikes on terrorist  sites in Afghanistan following the tragic events of September 11, 2001.

His leadership during the onset of the global war on terror left an  indelible mark on both his squadron and the larger Navy community.  After leading the squadron through its transition to the Super Hornet,  he was selected for an executive fellowship with the Hoover Institution  at Stanford, where he shared his vast knowledge and insight with the  next generation of leaders. He completed his career as commanding  officer of VX-9, the Navy's premier test and evaluation squadron.

His career was a testament to his love of flying, his unwavering  dedication to service, and his profound impact on all who worked with  him.

His sense of adventure, intellectual curiosity, and deep care for his  fellow servicemembers will forever be remembered by those whose lives  he touched.

Bruce was a man of faith, and, interestingly, in the last 2 years of  his life, he earned a master's degree in Catholic theology from  Franciscan University of Steubenville. He planned to retire from  General Atomics and serve as a chaplain. He attended St. Ann Catholic  Church in Ridgecrest, California, and enjoyed serving meals and singing  in the choir.

Bruce will be remembered for his great sense of humor and his  generous heart. He was a faithful son, wonderful brother, and a fun  uncle to his nephews and nieces.

His personal relationship with Jesus Christ took him through his last  difficult journey with the strength and confidence that he could trust  his Lord with the outcome of his life. We will miss him dearly but look  forward to the day we will be reunited in Heaven.

Bruce will be remembered for his great sense of humor and his  generous heart. He was a faithful son, wonderful brother, and a fun  uncle to his nephews and nieces. His personal relationship with Jesus  Christ took him through his last difficult journey with strength and  confidence that he could trust his Lord with the outcome of his life.

Bruce is survived by his sisters, Bobbi, Rebecca and Brenda; numerous  nieces and nephews; cousins; aunts; friends; and a lot of shipmates.

So now I am going to tell you about that little story I was telling  you about, Puppy Fecht. Under his steady hand, Fighter Squadron 14  embarked on what was meant to be a routine deployment aboard the USS  Enterprise in April of 2001. As we all know, history had different  plans. This deployment, while routine at the beginning, was set to be  special before anybody stepped foot on the ship.

As it was, Fighter Squadron 14's final deployment with the F-25  Tomcat marked the end of an era. Once this mission was complete, the F- 14 would be retired, and in its place the squadron would transition to  the F-18 Super Hornet.

With both excitement and a bit of sadness at the loss of an aircraft  that the squadron had known for so long, they were off. But just like  every deployment under Puppy's leadership, his command was ready for  any mission at any moment or any call to action.

On September 8, 2001, the USS Enterprise departed the Arabian Gulf,  bound for home with a scheduled port call in South Africa for the first  time in about 40 years. Just days later, while still south of the  Arabian Peninsula, those aboard the USS Enterprise watched in horror as  the tragedy of 9/11 unfolded.

In that moment, Commander Fecht's calm, visionary leadership shone  through. He made sure his squadron was prepared not just for what came  next but for whatever would follow. That readiness was tested when the  call came.

On the eve of the first strikes of Operation Enduring Freedom in  early October, Puppy assembled his team: Monty ``Ash'' Ashliman,  Marcell ``Opus'' Padilla, and Art ``Kato'' Delacruz, their target a  surface-to-air missile site northeast of Kabul, nearly 1,200 miles from  the USS Enterprise. 1,200 miles; that is at least three refuelings.

It was a mission demanding precision, resilience, and courage. It was  a nighttime operation deep into enemy territory, requiring multiple in- flight refuelings and flawless coordination with allied formations. At  the time, we didn't have any other air bases that we could go to in  Afghanistan.

Commander Fecht led his team with the same unshakeable calm that had  become his signature, guiding them through enemy fire and back home for  a sunrise recovery on the USS Enterprise. That is leadership. That is  courage.

Puppy's strength wasn't just in his command of the skies. It was in  the command of the hearts of those who served under him. Those who  served alongside him speak of his infectious laughter, his unshakeable  calm, and his belief that even in the most trying of times, there was  room for joy and comradery. His unique ability to diffuse tension with  humor and build trust through unyielding confidence made Fighter  Squadron 14 not just a team, but a family.

He understood that a leader's spirit resonates throughout the entire  crew, and because of that, his squadron was not only ready, they were  resilient.  They were prepared for the worst and delivered the best. Commander  Fecht led his squadron with dignity, courage, and an unyielding  commitment to our Nation. He brought his entire team home, every single  one of them.

That is the mark of a leader who not only commands respect but  inspires it. He embodied the warrior spirit, the never-quit attitude,  and the deep sense of duty that defines the very best of our Armed  Forces in this country.

Today, I am proud to tell you just one of many stories of Bruce  ``Puppy'' Fecht, and we honor him not just for what he did but for how  he did it, with courage, with conviction, and with a spirit that lifted  up everyone around him.

His legacy lives on in the hearts of those who served alongside him  and the freedom that he so selflessly defended. Great American patriots  like Commander Bruce ``Puppy'' Fecht will always ensure our Nation is  secure, and they will also ensure the next generation of great leaders  are trained and ready to carry that responsibility forward to wherever  the next calling may be.

So fair winds and following seas, shipmate.

I would like to add, as we debate these bills on the floor here, that  this weekend is Memorial Day where we remember those who have given  their lives, that we may speak freely down here, that we may debate  with our colleagues, hopefully in civil tone and purpose but  understanding that this is the last great hope on Earth. With friends  like my friend from Arizona, we will make it an even better place to  live.