250th Anniversary of the United States Postal Service


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, before he became President, a member of  Congress, or even a lawyer, Abraham Lincoln was a postal worker. From  1833 to 1836, Lincoln served as the postmaster of New Salem, IL. He  walked for miles delivering letters to Illinoisans, and he developed a  habit of storing them in his now-famous stovepipe hat. As he traversed  the prairies of Sangamon County, he learned about the State that would  eventually be known as the Land of Lincoln. Although postmaster was  just one of the many jobs Lincoln had during his days in New Salem, it  was his first taste of civil service and his introduction to the people  of Sangamon County.

But Abraham Lincoln is not the only person whose life has been shaped  by the Post Office. For 250 years, the U.S. Post Office has provided  essential services that connect Americans, support commerce, and  strengthen the foundations of our democracy. Founded during the Second  Continental Congress, even before the Declaration of Independence was  signed, the Post Office played an indispensable role in the success of  our young democracy. Not only was the Post Office crucial in  facilitating communication between American revolutionaries, it also  strengthened the ties between the 13 Original Colonies, allowing our  country to develop into one cohesive Nation. After the Colonies won  independence, the Post Office continued to grow, ensuring Americans  anywhere could have access to the information necessary to participate  in the democratic process.

But as the Post Office grew, there was one glaring gap in its  services. People living in rural areas would need to venture to the  nearest Post Office to access their mail, which could be located miles  away. While Americans living in more populous locations had access to  free home delivery for decades, rural Americans were still walking for  miles to retrieve their post at the end of the 19th century. In 1896,  the U.S. Post Office decided to try a new service in two counties in  West Virgina, free rural home delivery. In less than a decade, this  experiment was adopted nationwide, and today, millions of rural  Americans count on home delivery.

This commitment to equitable, universal delivery is one that is near  and dear to my heart as a Senator from Illinois. Across Illinois,  especially downstate, we have many rural counties and towns that  struggle to attract the attention of for-profit shipping corporations.  For these communities, USPS is often the only option to receive mail  and send packages. That is what separates USPS from the rest of  America's shipping industry. USPS is not a company; it is a public  service. Its employees are public servants. The role USPS plays in  connecting Americans is one that is vital for my home State and for  many others across the country.

Today, USPS delivers more mail than any other company in the world.  There are more than 30,000 Post Offices that serve 169 million homes  across the United States. Americans rely on the United States Postal  Service to deliver their medications, Social Security checks, and other  important correspondence, along with birthday cards from Grandma. The  post remains a lifeline for small businesses, who often cannot afford  to use large for-profit shipping corporations, as well as for rural  Americans. And USPS continues to support our democracy by helping  Americans send and receive their mail-in ballots for local, State, and  national elections.

On October 9, the Senate passed S. Res. 337, a resolution recognizing  the 250th anniversary of the Postal Service of the United States and  commending its indispensable role in the success of our Nation. But any  recognition of the USPS would be incomplete without acknowledging  America's incredible postal workers. Continuing in the tradition of  President Lincoln, postal workers ensure that through rain or snow,  heatwaves and arctic blasts, Americans receive their essential mail. As  we celebrate the U.S. Post Office's anniversary, I want to extend my  sincere gratitude to postal workers and letter carriers, both past and  present, for their essential service to Illinois and the Nation.

While much has changed since the founding of the U.S. Post Office,  its role as an essential pillar of our democracy and community remains  the same. Congratulations to this 250-year-old public institution, and  here is to many more years of service.