Central Texas Floods


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, summer camp is a great memory for so many  of us. You think about the good times we had, at the right moment in  life, with a lot of friends, learning the basics of swimming, archery,  target shooting, and other things, like camping out--memories you carry  for a lifetime, wonderful memories, a rite of passage for many  individuals and families, a family tradition passed on to younger  siblings and, ultimately, to our own children and grandchildren.

There are so many images in our minds, over the last several days, as  to the tragedy that occurred in Central Texas. I know I speak for  millions of Americans when I say we are heartbroken over the flash  floods that devastated Central Texas this past weekend.

Early Friday morning, while most were fast asleep, a foot of rain  fell onto Texas Hill Country. This deluge floated to the Guadalupe  River, causing it to rise by 26 feet in 45 minutes--26 feet in 45  minutes.

Near the Guadalupe, a girls sleep away camp, Camp Mystic, which had  been there for 99 years, was all but destroyed by the floods. Already,  that camp has confirmed that 27 of their campers and counselors died in  that flood--27.

I send my deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of those  campers and counselors.

Tragically, the flooding in Texas continues to take lives. More than  100 people have perished. That number is expected to grow, sadly, in  the coming days.

In the midst of this disaster, I am heartened by the kindness and  courage shown by the first responders and volunteers. Twenty separate  agencies, at every level of government, have come together to help save  lives. At Camp Mystic, the counselors, many of whom had just graduated  from high school, risked their own lives to save younger campers. We  will never forget that bravery.

This disaster has impacted people of both political faiths-- Republicans and Democrats--and Independents as well.

I want to say this, and I say this on reflection of my career in the  House and the Senate: I have never, to my knowledge--never--voted  against disaster assistance for people in other States than my home  State of Illinois. There, but for the grace of God, go my people that I  represent. And I would hope that the Senate and the House would stand  together, Democrats and Republicans, and say we are going to be there  for the victims of this disaster.

I pray that we find the missing loved ones and that we take the  necessary steps to stop another tragedy like this from occurring.