Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Kaine for S.J.  Res.

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, we are here debating a central  Constitution precept, and I am glad. Throughout my career in the House  and Senate, I have tried to be consistent on this issue and respect the  Constitution and its wisdom.

I am going to say six words I very rarely, if ever, have said in my  entire career in Congress: I agree with Senator Rand Paul. I believe  what he has said on the floor today is in fact the way I feel about  what this section of the Constitution means.

In one of the previous debates with the War Powers Resolution, War  Powers Act being debated on the floor, Senator Kaine reminded us of  that historic moment when the Founding Fathers decided to write this  Constitution, which we have all sworn to uphold and defend. And leading  that Constitutional Convention, of course, was the greatest general  then and still in the history of the United States: George Washington.

Despite the fact that he was in the room and leading the conversation  about what Constitution would govern this country, article I, section 8  put in a provision that basically said, when it comes to a future war,  even if you are President, General Washington, that Congress would have  the power to decide whether we go to war. Senator Kaine made that point  in an earlier debate, and I thought it was well worth repeating.

Let me say a word about Venezuela. In 2018, I had the opportunity to  visit Venezuela--a once prosperous, albeit imperfect democracy,  suffering terrible economic and political decline under the disgraceful  and failed leadership of Nicolas Maduro.

I told then-President Maduro that if he rigged any upcoming  elections, Venezuelans would be even more isolated and endure further  unnecessary suffering. He went ahead with a sham election anyway,  leading to even more cruelty and the exodus of literally millions of  Venezuelans, some to the United States.

Last July, Venezuela held another Presidential election, during which  the regime, the Maduro regime, arbitrarily blocked opposition  candidates from the ballot and tried to undermine the preelectoral  process. Nonetheless, more than 10 million Venezuelans showed up to  vote, and results meticulously documented by credible election monitors  showed a sweeping victory for opposition candidate Edmundo Gonzalez.  Maduro and his criminal enablers again refused to respect the rules and  shamelessly refused to swear in legitimately chosen President Gonzalez.

So let me make it clear: Nicolas Maduro is an illegitimate leader  guilty of turning Venezuela into a failed state, one that has caused  terrible suffering and misery for the people who live there. This is  not the question at hand. As I have long said, it is long overdue that  the result of last year's elections be respected in Venezuela.

But let me be clear on a position I have also held for a long time  regardless of who has been in the White  House. Only Congress, under the Constitution, has the power to declare  war. Article I, section 8 is clear on this issue--and for good reason.  Only the people's elected representatives should have the awesome power  to send our sons and daughters into armed conflict.

I remember thinking about this in personal terms during the era of  the Vietnam war when I was a college student, thinking about the fact  that there had not been any formal declaration of war in Vietnam, and  yet over 40,000 of my brothers and sisters gave their lives in that  conflict.

Our Founding Fathers were wise in this regard and well aware of human  history in which Kings and unelected leaders sent their people into war  for personal gain without any public consent.

Congress overwhelmingly reaffirmed this key constitutional provision  when it passed the War Powers Act in 1973 over the veto of then- President Richard Nixon.

Under the law, the President has the authority to approve military  attacks as a response to an imminent threat or with the expressed  authorization of Congress. I do not believe these conditions have been  met in this situation.

We in Congress have already ceded too much of our constitutional  authority on appropriations and other key items to the President. This  body must not do so regarding matters of war.

I think about the idea of a war breaking out between the United  States and Venezuela. Certainly picking off unarmed boats in the ocean  is an easy task for our great military. But let's keep in mind that we  live in a world where there is asymmetric power. What am I talking  about? Take a look at what the drones--many of them pretty cheap pieces  of equipment--have wrought in countries like Ukraine in the midst of  their war. What would turn out to be a mass of force by the United  States sent down in the Caribbean--there is sure to be a show of force,  maybe subject to attack even by Venezuela, poorly armed country that it  is.

So I would say that if we are thinking clearly about this, we would  think long and hard before we engaged in any conflict with Venezuela.  That is what article I, section 8 is about. The American people, before  being asked to give any sons and daughters and risk their lives in a  war, have to have a voice in the process, and they do that through  Members of Congress and through our Constitution. That is what Senator  Kaine of Virginia reminds us of today. That is why I will support S.J.  Res. 90.