Executive Calendar


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today, the Senate will vote to confirm  Edmund LaCour to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of  Alabama.

Mr. LaCour is another judicial nominee selected by President Trump  for his extreme views. As the solicitor general of Alabama, Mr. LaCour  has repeatedly put politics ahead of the rule of law.

He has resisted the orders of Federal courts--including the Supreme  Court--after they ruled against him and the State of Alabama in voting  rights cases. His role in that litigation was not confined to a  courtroom. After the Supreme Court recognized that Alabama's voting  maps likely violated section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, Mr. LaCour  helped State legislators draw new voting maps. He pushed for the  inclusion of so-called ``legislative findings'' and wrote talking  points for lawmakers. Despite his best efforts, Federal judges again  found that these maps violated the Voting Rights Act. Yet Mr. LaCour  and the State continue to argue the case and challenge the rulings  against them.

Mr. LaCour has argued for extreme restrictions on abortion rights and  the rights of transgender people. He has also aggressively advocated  for the death penalty. Last year, Mr. LaCour argued in support of  nitrogen suffocation--an untested and inhumane death penalty method-- which allowed Alabama to carry out the first execution in the world by  nitrogen gas.

And just last week, in another case that Mr. LaCour argued, Alabama  executed Anthony Boyd by nitrogen suffocation. Mr. Boyd reportedly  ``convulse[d] and heave[d] for about 15 minutes before being pronounced  dead.'' In her dissent from the Supreme Court's denial of a stay of  execution, Justice Sotomayor, joined by Justices Kagan and Jackson,  concluded, ``Allowing the nitrogen hypoxia experiment to continue  despite mounting and unbroken evidence that it violates the  Constitution by inflicting unnecessary suffering fails to ` ``protec[t]  [the] dignity'' ' of ` ``the Nation we have been, the Nation we are,  and the Nation we aspire to be.'' ' ''

Based on Mr. LaCour's record, I am concerned that he will continue to  display his clear ideological preferences if he is confirmed to the  bench.

I oppose his nomination. I urge my colleagues to join me.