Government Funding


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, my friend from Wyoming, my colleague on  the Republican side, just gave a litany of accomplishments of the Trump  administration. That is his view of the political world, and he is  certainly entitled to it, but the vote results from last night show  that America does not agree with what the Senator from Wyoming said.  They are not happy with the MAGA movement and what it has brought to  America. The results across the board were overwhelmingly in favor of  Democrats last night. It doesn't square with the happy talk which we  have heard on the floor about the achievements of the Trump  administration.

In fact, in one candid moment, President Trump conceded that the  shutdown cost him many votes in last night's election across the board,  and he is right. The American people have come to understand what this  government shutdown is all about. It is about their bottom line, their  home budget, their healthcare, their insurance costs.

In my State--typical--people are seeing a doubling of their health  insurance premiums as of January 1 and, in some parts of my State,  tripling. In other parts of the country, it is even more. Why is this  happening? Because of the big, beautiful, budget bill of the Trump  administration. It eliminated the tax treatment that helped families  pay for these health insurance premiums. As a consequence, their  premiums are going through the roof.

What is that going to do to a family that has to make a choice--a  choice that comes down to $200 or $300 a month more in health insurance  premiums? Some will be able to afford it, I am sure, but others won't,  and they will give up on their health insurance coverage. That is a  terrible position for any family to be in.

It also creates problems when it comes to healthcare providers-- hospitals, clinics, doctors, and such. They are going to find  themselves in a terrible situation when these same sick people, with no  health insurance, come to the hospital. Sure, they will be treated--we  do that in America--but they are going to end up incurring costs for  that hospital that will not be reimbursed. What does that do for the  rest of us with health insurance we can afford? We are going to end up  paying more when it is all over.

You cannot ignore the health insurance problem in America, as the  Republicans hope to do. That is what is driving this government  shutdown, and it is time for it to come to an end.

I hope that President Trump, after last night's election results,  will see clearly that he is being blamed, rightly, for this shutdown  and that it has to come to an end and we have to move forward as a  nation--the sooner the better.

The things that are happening across the board here are just  indefensible. The President, yesterday, was weaving back and forth  between saying he is going to pay all of the SNAP food benefits to  hungry families in America and then saying he is going to cut them all  off unless we ended the government shutdown--back and forth during the  course of the day. It was hard to follow his position. I am still not  sure where it ends.

But I worry that families desperate for assistance in paying for  food, to put it on the table, are still not certain themselves. The  food banks cannot take care of this problem. This program, the SNAP  program, known as the Food Stamp Program, is critical to feeding  America for over 40 million of our neighbors and friends. It is time to  make it clear that the payments are going to be made--no ifs, ands, or  buts about it. I hope the President makes that clear today.                            Operation Midway Blitz

Mr. President, on an unrelated topic, this coming weekend will mark 2  months since President Trump launched his so-called Operation Midway  Blitz in my home State of Illinois. The Presiding Officer will remember  what it is all about. The President was sending in ICE agents dressed  in combat uniforms--with masks on their face and no identification as  to who they work for--to arrest what they considered to be would-be  robbers, terrorists, murderers, rapists, and the criminally insane who  had come across our border in past years.

They set out to do that, but what has happened is exactly the  opposite. Instead of taking dangerous people off the street, they are  harassing and intimidating people who have no crimes in their  background whatsoever. The stories just come tumbling in every single  day.

The head of the Department of Homeland Security calls this ICE force  her ``dream team.'' Let me tell you, this ``dream team'' has done  things that are just unthinkable when it comes to the laws and  Constitution of this country.

In those 2 months since the President started sending these workers  in, he has achieved what I believe to be his true objective here: not  to bring down violent crime but to spread fear in the  hearts of our communities, especially our immigrant communities.

In these 2 months, we have seen people thrown to the ground and  beaten. This is not speculation; it is videotaped. We have it.

We have seen children ripped from their beds in the middle of the  night and zip-tied outside of an apartment complex on the South Shore  Avenue of Chicago. And we have seen tear gas canisters deployed against  pastors, journalists, and police.

Think about that. It has reached a point that the Federal court is  entertaining depositions today from the leader of this effort, the so- called ``dream team'' ICE agents, trying to explain why their violence  can be justified.

Innocent people have been caught up in this terror, not just the  ``worst of the worst,'' as the President promised and his team has  claimed, but American citizens, legal residents, and immigrants who  have built their lives and raised their families here. They pose no  threat to public safety, and yet they are the targets for these ICE  agents.

I want to share a story of one of these people.

Three weeks ago, Omar Huerta Cisneros, a legal resident of the United  States, a green card holder, was going for a walk in the South Side of  Chicago when masked immigrant agents abruptly pulled him into a red car  and drove away. Mr. Huerta Cisneros was detained and disappeared by the  Trump administration simply for walking down the street as a Hispanic  man.

What makes this case especially troubling, though, is what happened  after they arrested him. Mr. Cisneros has a mental challenge. He is  schizophrenic, and he lacks ``the mental capacity to reach out to  anybody,'' according to his family.

His family only learned of his arrest after footage of the encounter  was posted on social media. His family started searching desperately to  find him in detention. Now, if this sounds like an extreme case, it is  not. It is the usual custom. The ICE agents sweep people off the  street, and they disappear sometimes for hours, sometimes for days,  sometimes for even longer.

There is no way to check on their whereabouts. If you think that it  sounds like something very unusual, if you have watched all the crime  shows on TV on what a warrant for an arrest may be, what your arrest  will be, what the Miranda warnings may be, this is totally unusual. The  ICE agents are making it all up. They are ignoring the law and ignoring  the Constitution.

In the behavior characteristics of the Trump administration, people  find only silence when they asked what happened to that person just  swept up off the street.

The family had to resort to pleading to the community and posting  these missing person posters on social media to try to find Mr.  Cisneros. This is the photograph that they were advertising, asking  people: Have they seen this man? Can you help us find our member of our  family?

They finally did find him, 2 weeks--2 weeks--after the masked Federal  agents wrongfully arrested him. Where did they find him? On the streets  of the suburbs of Chicago. Family members believed Federal agents just  dropped him off, possibly a day after detaining him. But no one  contacted the family, and they didn't know where he slept during this  time away from home.

Unfortunately, Mr. Huerta Cisneros' case is not isolated. Donald  Trump has turned Federal law enforcement officers into his own personal  secret masked police force to engage in political theater at the  expense of real lives. In that process, the rights and liberties  guaranteed by the Constitution, including the right to due process and  the rule of law, have been trampled.

ICE agents, this so-called ``dream team,'' believe they are above the  law and not bound by the Constitution. We are on the slippery slope  into authoritarianism. Don't believe me? Listen to the President's own  words.

In a ``60 Minutes'' interview this week, he was asked about sending  Active-Duty military into American cities. He responded: ``I can bring  in the Army, the Marines, I could bring in whoever I want'' and that he  could do so ``in a heartbeat'' and that ``no judge can even challenge  me.''

He also said ICE raids ``haven't gone far enough.'' Tell that to Mr.  Cisneros and his family and every other Illinoisan caught up in these  cruel and chaotic raids.

To think that this man is a robber, a rapist, a terrorist, a  murderer, criminally insane is just almost laughable if it wasn't such  a sad situation exploiting this poor gentleman.

In the face of such ugliness, Chicago and the people who live there  have shown up to stand up for one another. We saw it in Mr. Cisneros'  case, neighbors helping neighbors trying to find this man who was  disappeared by the ICE agents in Chicago.

Over the weekend, we had another example. On Halloween, I joined  Governor Pritzker in asking the ICE agents to please lay off the  families and kids who are out trick-or-treating. They are being  terrorized already. There ought to be one night in the year when you  give them a break. They refused. In fact, they mocked us that we would  even ask for that.

And then came an incident in Evanston, IL, a suburb just north of  Chicago. It was an incident which embarrassed a lot of people and  worried them that we were moving to a police state, with the ICE agents  going up and down the streets looking for people who were raking  leaves, checking on each one of them, in terms of their background and  their citizenship and their identity.

They swept up almost everybody who was out in the yard. At this time  of year, everybody is out in the yard. That sort of thing really struck  a chord in the city of Evanston. They responded, and I knew they  would--a strong community.

Over the weekend, hundreds of donors lined the streets near Evanston  Township High School to participate in a food drive for their  neighbors. The turnout was so overwhelming that the police had to turn  off the traffic light at an intersection to accommodate the line of  cars waiting to drop off food.

While food was the main draw, Evanston organizers also handed out  ``Know Your Rights'' cards and whistles along with the toiletries.  Those whistles have been used by community members to warn others when  ICE agents are in the area.

This is what an American community looks like: It is organizing to  stand together to defend their neighbors. And while no community should  have to resort to such extreme, Evanston and other communities across  the country have been forced to do it, and they are willingly doing so.

For the first time in our Nation's history, the flow of Federal funds  for the SNAP program was halted at the direction of President Donald  Trump. To think, this President, in order to put political pressure on  Congress, is going to cut off the food to disabled people, elderly  people, and children is disgusting.

The Trump administration has the power to issue 100 percent of  benefits to working families and kids who rely on this program, but the  President and the Department of Agriculture are defying court orders  and refusing to flip the switch on these emergency funds for  circumstances just like this.

In one moment, the Department of Agriculture says they will send just  50 percent of the monthly benefits to SNAP. The next moment, the  President says he will only send out SNAP benefits when the government  reopens. When it comes to feeding 42 million Americans, our most  vulnerable neighbors and friends, suddenly the Trump administration  appears confused and, once again, in disarray.

Who in the world is in charge? But it has no problem remodeling the  White House bathrooms with marble and gold, throwing a ``Great Gatsby''  Halloween party for the richest friends, and passing tax cuts for  millionaires and billionaires or inviting Senate Republicans down for  breakfast as Americans, many of them, struggle to pay for their own  breakfast.

It is time for this administration to stop this chaos. Families  across America deserve better. I hope that what happened in yesterday's  election is a wake-up call that we need to sit down and end this  government shutdown that was initiated by the Republican refusal to  discuss the cost of health insurance.

We can do something to help Americans. If we can find $20 billion or  $40 billion for Argentina, for God's sake, there has got to be money to  help  Americans pay their hospitalization premiums. I hope we get down to  business today.