Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, 3 years ago today, this Capitol served as  the background for one of the most notable events in recent American  history. On April 7, 2022, our country made a monumental stride  forward. The Senate confirmed a once-in-a-generation legal talent, a  jurist with outstanding credentials and invaluable lived experience,  and the first-ever Black woman and former public defender to serve as a  Justice of the Supreme Court: Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson.

Justice Jackson's confirmation shattered the glass ceiling and paved  the way for future women of color to follow in her footsteps. Her name  will be remembered in history for generations to come.

When the Supreme Court first met in the Capitol Building in February  of 1801, there were a million slaves in this Nation of 5 million  people--a million slaves in a nation of 5 million people. This very  building itself was built with the labor of enslaved people. At the  time, neither Black Americans nor women had the right to vote.  America's battle to end slavery continued through the Civil War and was  followed by decades of efforts to break down lingering racial barriers.  Those efforts continue to this day.

And our struggle to enfranchise and empower women did not end with  the  passage of the 19th Amendment. It continues to this day, as we strive  to give our daughters the same opportunities as our sons.

The confirmation of Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme  Court honored the history that came before it. It honored the struggles  of the past and the men and women who fought for a future where skin  color and gender are no longer a barrier to full participation in  American society, voting, or seeking the highest positions in our  government.

America's history is defined by our enduring effort to bridge the gap  between that ideal and our slow march toward progress. But with each  generation, we edge closer to making that ideal a reality. In 1965, we  ensured that the Federal Government could rigorously protect the right  to vote--a right that protects all other rights, for that matter--with  the passage of the Voting Rights Act.

Two years later, after passing that civil rights bill, we confirmed  the first Black American to ever serve on the Supreme Court, Justice  Thurgood Marshall. And more than 50 years later--50 years--we took  another step forward by confirming Justice Jackson, the first Black  woman to serve on the Court.

I want to give credit where it is due. This was the initiative of  President Joe Biden, who made it clear when he was elected President  this was his highest priority when it came to the Supreme Court.  President Biden kept his word.

With Justice Jackson's confirmation to the highest Court in the land,  we not only made history, but we also carried on the great American  tradition, elevating our Nation's best and brightest legal minds to a  sacred position of service, a seat she now occupies for life. There is  no one more deserving of this high honor and profound responsibility  than Justice Jackson. She is one of the best.

She has devoted her life to serving our country, and she has done so  at every level of the Federal Judiciary. At every turn, she has upheld  the Constitution and faithfully followed the rule of law. She is  impartial, thoughtful, and even-handed, evaluating every case from, in  her words, a ``neutral posture.''

Since her confirmation, Justice Jackson made her mark on the Court,  establishing her status as a sharp and inquisitive questioner of the  parties before her. And whether she authors majority opinions or  dissents, she always demonstrates a brilliant legal mind.

Just a year into her tenure on the Court, Justice Jackson's first  major opinion reaffirmed that Medicaid patients unlawfully denied care  or abused by healthcare providers can sue under section 1983. Section  1983 is a law enacted following the Civil War, as part of the Ku Klux  Klan Act, which allows lawsuits by individuals whose civil rights have  been violated. It is a powerful tool for Americans to seek  accountability from local, State, and Federal Government officials. At  a time when President Trump and unelected ``co-President'' Elon Musk  have vowed to cut Medicaid, it is more crucial than ever that we give  those who need this program the legal recourse they need if they are  denied care or otherwise abused by a provider.

In instances where Justice Jackson has dissented from the majority,  she makes a clear case for why she reached that conclusion. Nearly 2  years ago, the Supreme Court ended the use of affirmative action in  college and university admissions. Justice Jackson issued a strong  compelling dissent, and she wrote:

[D]eeming race irrelevant in law does not make it so in       life.

She continued:

And having so detached itself from this country's actual       past and present experiences, the Court has now been lured       into interfering with the crucial work that . . .       institutions of higher learning are doing to solve America's       real-world problems.

Mr. President, it is one of the great honors of my life to preside  over the confirmation hearing of Justice Jackson during my time as  chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Justice Jackson's story is one  of breaking barriers and paving the way for future women of color to  follow in her footsteps.

At a time when the President and his administration are challenging  the rule of law in our country as never before, Justice Jackson's  presence on the highest Court in the land could not be more important.

I am incredibly proud of all she has accomplished so far during her  time on the Supreme Court. I know that Justice Jackson will continue to  honor all those who came before her and sat on the bench.