Minnesota Lawmakers Shooting


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, over the weekend, while most of the  country slept, a gunman targeted two Minnesota State legislators in  their homes. He pretended to be a police officer, and he gunned down  Democratic State legislator John Hoffman and his wife. Fortunately,  they survived and are recovering from surgery and reportedly in stable  condition. We pray for State Senator Hoffman and his wife's full  recovery.

Then the gunman attacked another Democratic State legislator with  over  20 years of service, Minnesota Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman, and her  husband Mark. She and her husband leave behind two children.

These killings are not only horrifying for Minnesota but a tragedy  for America. This heinous act of political violence defies American  values and democracy.

Unfortunately, we have seen a disturbing increase in political  violence in recent years, seemingly, as part of a misguided and  sickening attempt to strike fear and intimidation in the hearts of the  American people and those who engage in public service.

Violence and hate have no place in America. Leaders on both sides of  the aisle must speak out and condemn these violent acts. I have said  this repeatedly, but it bears repeating: Political violence from the  right or the left is never--never--acceptable. It is never the answer.

We must condemn these violent acts when they happen. We also must  speak out against the radical language we see online and even language  coming from our colleagues.

One Member of this body tweeted a picture of the Minnesota shooter  and wrote:

This is what happens when Marxists don't get their way.

He tweeted another picture of the shooter and wrote:

Nightmare on Waltz Street.

Apparently, it was an attempt to blame Minnesota Governor Tim Walz  for the shooting.

Another one of my colleagues from the other side of the aisle tweeted  about the shooting:

The degree to which the extreme left has become radical,       violent, and intolerant is stunning and terrifying.

To attempt to politicalize this tragedy is absolutely unacceptable.  This rhetoric from elected officials is beyond dangerous and incites  even more violence. It is reprehensible, and it must be called out on  both sides of the aisle--both sides of the aisle--because in the land  of the free and the home of the brave, everyone should feel safe  expressing their political views, and we must never do so in a way that  condones violence or intimidation.

I pray for Minnesota during this heartbreaking time and vow to  continue to denounce and combat political violence of any kind.