Nih Funding


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I also want to draw attention to the  crisis surrounding medical research in this country, created entirely  by this new Trump administration.

Ten years ago, I met with Dr. Francis Collins, then the Director of  the National Institutes of Health, the world's premium biomedical  research agency. I admired his work so much that I asked him what I  could do to help.

He said:

If you can provide a 5-percent increase to NIH's medical       research budget, year after year, we'll light up the       scoreboard.

So I took that message and went back to Congress. With the help of  colleagues on both sides of the aisle--Republican Senator Roy Blunt,  Republican Senator Lamar Alexander, and Democratic Senator Patty  Murray--we increased NIH funding from $30 billion to $48 billion over  the next 10 years, a 60-percent increase in research--a 60-percent  increase in cures, hopes, and breakthroughs.

But what took us 10 years to build, President Donald Trump has all  but dismantled in less than 11 months.

Recent reporting from the New York Times shed light on the dire  consequences of President Trump's medical research cuts. The President  and DOGE instituted a new set of rules at NIH that resulted in 3,500  fewer medical research grants, affecting virtually every area of  medical study.

Funding for mental health was reduced 31 percent, brain diseases by  26 percent, and cancer research by 19 percent. All of these reductions  are in real areas of opportunity, which we are walking away from under  Trump. This is a fundamental blow to how America supports medical  research and has real implications for the progress we made.

Instead of ushering in the next wave of medical breakthroughs, which  could save you or your loved one from suffering, this administration  has cut them off at the knees.

I am pleased that the Senate Appropriations Committee, on a  bipartisan basis, rejected Trump's proposed cuts and actually provided  an increase for next year. But if the administration ignores Congress's  wish and continues to upend research funding, that could create  irreparable harm.

As the father of a child born with a severe medical condition, I know  personally that families across this country depend on the hope and  promise that research holds. Cures and treatments that come from the  National Institutes of Health funded the research behind 99 percent of  the new drugs approved by the FDA in the last decade.

Oh, sure, you see the ads on television for all these new drugs that  they say hold onto some promise. The pharmaceutical companies that are  selling them and developing them have virtually all started with  Federal research by the taxpayers of this country--the same research  that has been cut off now by President Trump.

So when Donald Trump handicaps the NIH's work, he is telling  patients: Your cure can wait.

Our communities will feel the pain of this change too. Our  universities, not just in blue States but in every State--great  research institutions in Alabama, Kansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma--will be  unable to pursue more cures. Our hospitals, already scaling back  operations thanks to budget cuts and the President's so-called ``Big  Beautiful Budget Bill,'' will be forced to diminish services even more.

The scientists and doctors of tomorrow may decide to forego their  profession entirely or bring their talents to other countries.

As we fight to protect healthcare for millions of Americans, let us  also not forget to fight for research that fuels that care. We cannot  stand for this assault on medical research funding. We need to continue  to work on a bipartisan basis to make sure that funding does continue.

It is not just a matter of national pride. It is a matter of finding  cures and drugs that will help people all around the world and that has  defined America for decades.

We can't let the Trump administration kill off medical research and  kill off that dream that people keep alive every single day.