Operation Midway Blitz


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, on December 23, the Supreme Court issued  an order in Trump v. Illinois that checks this President and his  authoritarian tendencies.

The Court rejected the Trump administration's request to stay a  temporary restraining order issued by U.S. District Judge April Perry,  which had blocked Trump's unnecessary deployment of the National Guard  in Chicago.

In that unsigned order, the majority of the Supreme Court wrote,  ``The Government has failed to identify a source of authority that  would allow the military to execute the laws in Illinois.''

This is good news, and we should recognize the significance of this  moment: Even the Supreme Court's conservative supermajority refused to  greenlight the President of the United States' blatantly unlawful  overreach.

Our government is supposed to help Americans--not go to war with  them. The administration's deployment of the National Guard was  dangerous political theater intended to sow fear and escalate the  President's mass deportation campaign, not to reduce crime.

The President's false rhetoric about Chicago being ``overrun'' with  chaos was clearly a pretext to intimidate our city and normalize the  deployment of soldiers on our streets.

To protect civil liberties and civilian rule--pillars of democracy-- our country has long upheld the norm that the military does not police  our cities.

The Supreme Court recognized that, in this country, the circumstances  where the military may be used to execute the laws are exceptional and  thankfully acted as a check on this President, at least at this  preliminary stage.

The cost of this National Guard operation has already been enormous.  The operations, maintenance, and personnel costs for federalizing the  500 National Guard soldiers for deployment in Illinois reached an  estimated $20 million in a 2-month span.

That comes out to more than $300,000 per day.

That bears repeating: $20 million and 500 Guard personnel away for  weeks on end from their families, their jobs, their communities . . .  not performing any missions, but simply used by the President to  threaten a reign of terror in the city of Chicago. It is  unconscionable.

As of today, these troops are finally, slowly demobilizing and  getting ready to head home. But unfortunately, the presence of  militarized immigration operations is likely to continue in Chicago and  around the country, along with the egregious use of excessive force by  these Federal immigration agents.

Just yesterday, an ICE agent shot and killed a woman in Minneapolis.  The video of the shooting is horrific and contradicts the self-defense  narrative that DHS has attempted to spin. Minnesota officials have  rightfully promised a full, fair, and expeditious investigation. DHS  Secretary Kristi Noem has dodged testifying under oath before the  Senate Judiciary Committee for months. What happened in Minneapolis  yesterday was an unacceptable tragedy. She must testify before the  Judiciary Committee, immediately.

Meanwhile, across the country, camouflaged and masked Federal  immigration agents continue to deploy Black Hawk helicopters, armored  vehicles, and a variety of chemical agents, including near schools,  playgrounds, apartment buildings, and churches.

And the Department of Homeland Security refuses to provide  information about the costs of these dangerous operations in Illinois.  The Chicago Tribune estimated that these militarized immigration  operations cost at least $40 million over a 10-week period.

In the wake of these operations, families are afraid to leave their  homes, parents are scared to walk their children to school, and workers  and vendors fear being pulled from the streets and detained simply for  the way they look or the language they speak.

The Trump administration has repeatedly justified these militarized  raids as necessary to target the ``worst of the worst.'' But the facts  tell a different story, one that I have laid out repeatedly on this  floor.

In one instance, on a list of 614 detainees submitted to a Federal  court, the administration identified criminal histories for just 16 of  the detainees. That shakes out to less than 3 percent of arrestees.

And people with no prior criminal backgrounds, including legal  residents and U.S. citizens, were swept up.

As the President flirts with future military deployments and  continues his militarized immigration raids, we know his campaign of  terror will not stop at Chicago.

And while he failed in his attempt to use Chicago as ``training  grounds'' for military forces, the scale and tactics of Operation  Midway Blitz have given him a blueprint for similar operations  across the country, including in Minneapolis this week.

So I ask my Republican colleagues, Will you denounce this President's  use of troops in our communities before a city you represent becomes  the administration's next ``training grounds''?

I will continue to speak out and conduct oversight of this President,  and I hope my Republican colleagues will join me in that effort.