Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Proposed Export of


Mr. DURBIN. I thank the Senator from Vermont.

Several weeks ago, several Senators joined me in meeting with the  Ambassador from Israel. It was an effort to discuss many of the things  which we are discussing this evening.

We asked him why Israel was not providing humanitarian aid in Gaza.  He said: That is not true. We were providing it, but Hamas was stealing  it from us and using it to buy weapons and to make them stronger.

Then he went on to say--when we asked him about the children  starving, the images we had all seen on television, he said: That is  not true. That is a United Nations' narrative.

Then we asked him basically: If there is such a difference of opinion  about what is happening in Gaza, why don't you allow international  journalists to come into this area and report to the world what they  actually see?

He said it was too dangerous for journalists to even witness it.

Mr. President, I want to tell you, that was an incredible statement  and, I believe, totally wrong.

At the outset, Cindy McCain and others told us there is no diversion  by Hamas of the humanitarian aid. It just isn't coming into Gaza.

They went on to say that these children--of course, we see them on  television. You can't avoid it. That is the reality of the situation.

Furthermore, when it came down to it, we had to stand up and  acknowledge the obvious--that Israel is part of this.

Children in Gaza are starving and dying. The question is, What will  the United States do about it?

I thank the Senator from Vermont for offering these resolutions this  evening. It is painful for many of us who devoted our congressional  careers to supporting Israel, standing by them through difficult times.  It is impossible to explain or defend what is going on today. Gaza is  starving and dying because of the policies of Benyamin Netanyahu.

It is time for us as a nation to say that our taxpayers are not going  to support this effort. I will be joining the Senator this evening in  supporting this effort.

Mr. DURBIN.  Slotkin) are necessarily absent.

The result was announced--yeas 27, nays 70, as follows:                        [Rollcall Vote No. 454 Ex.]                                  YEAS--27       Alsobrooks      Baldwin      Blunt Rochester      Duckworth      Durbin      Heinrich      Hirono      Kaine      Kim      King      Klobuchar      Lujan      Markey      Merkley      Murphy      Murray      Ossoff      Reed      Sanders      Schatz      Shaheen      Smith      Van Hollen      Warnock      Warren      Welch      Whitehouse                                  NAYS--70       Banks      Barrasso      Bennet      Blackburn      Blumenthal      Booker      Boozman      Britt      Budd      Cantwell      Capito      Cassidy      Collins      Coons      Cornyn      Cortez Masto      Cotton      Cramer      Crapo      Cruz      Curtis      Daines      Ernst      Fetterman      Fischer      Gillibrand      Graham      Grassley      Hagerty      Hassan      Hawley      Hickenlooper      Hoeven      Husted      Hyde-Smith      Johnson      Justice      Kennedy      Lankford      Lee      Lummis      Marshall      McConnell      McCormick      Moody      Moran      Moreno      Mullin      Murkowski      Padilla      Paul      Peters      Ricketts      Risch      Rosen      Rounds      Schiff      Schmitt      Schumer      Scott (FL)      Scott (SC)      Sheehy      Sullivan      Thune      Tillis      Tuberville      Warner      Wicker      Wyden      Young                               NOT VOTING--3       Gallego      Kelly      Slotkin

The motion was rejected.                   Vote on Motion to Discharge S.J. Res. 34

Mr. DURBIN.   Slotkin) are necessarily absent.

The result was announced--yeas 24, nays 73, as follows:                        [Rollcall Vote No. 455 Ex.]                                  YEAS--24       Alsobrooks      Baldwin      Blunt Rochester      Duckworth      Durbin      Heinrich      Hirono      Kaine      Kim      King      Klobuchar      Lujan      Markey      Merkley      Murphy      Murray      Sanders      Schatz      Shaheen      Smith      Van Hollen      Warnock      Warren      Welch                                  NAYS--73       Banks      Barrasso      Bennet      Blackburn      Blumenthal      Booker      Boozman      Britt      Budd      Cantwell      Capito      Cassidy      Collins      Coons      Cornyn      Cortez Masto      Cotton      Cramer      Crapo      Cruz      Curtis      Daines      Ernst      Fetterman      Fischer      Gillibrand      Graham      Grassley      Hagerty      Hassan      Hawley      Hickenlooper      Hoeven      Husted      Hyde-Smith      Johnson      Justice      Kennedy      Lankford      Lee      Lummis      Marshall      McConnell      McCormick      Moody      Moran      Moreno      Mullin      Murkowski      Ossoff      Padilla      Paul      Peters      Reed      Ricketts      Risch      Rosen      Rounds      Schiff      Schmitt      Schumer      Scott (FL)      Scott (SC)      Sheehy      Sullivan      Thune      Tillis      Tuberville      Warner      Whitehouse      Wicker      Wyden      Young                               NOT VOTING--3       Gallego      Kelly      Slotkin

The motion was rejected.