Recognizing 70 Years of Mcdonald's


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I am the son of an immigrant from East St.  Louis, IL. As a reminder to myself, I keep my mother's naturalization  certificate on a table behind my desk in the U.S. Capitol. She came to  the United States from Lithuania, fleeing oppression from the Soviet  Union, when she was just 2 years old. Little did she know that her  youngest son would go on to become a U.S. Senator.

This might be my personal story as the son of an immigrant, but it  also is the story of America--the American dream. You can find stories  like this everywhere, even in places you might least expect them. Take  the story of McDonald's. Next week, McDonald's is celebrating 70 years  of selling hamburgers, strengthening communities, and connecting  people. Since 1971, Illinois has been home to the headquarters of  McDonald's, but the multibillion-dollar hamburger chain's history with  the Prairie State does not begin there.

In the 1920s, Richard ``Dick'' and Maurice ``Mac'' McDonald, two sons  of Irish immigrants, headed to California to try their luck in  Hollywood. By the 1940s, they had pivoted to the drive-in restaurant  industry, opening their first McDonald's restaurant in San Bernardino,  CA. With their simple menu and signature Speedee Service System to  efficiently serve a large number of customers, McDonald's soon became  the talk of California. It was a success, and people noticed.

One of those people was Ray Kroc, a traveling salesman from Oak Park,  IL. Kroc also was the son of immigrants, his parents were born in  Bohemia, which is now part of the Czech Republic. Ray became enamored  by Dick and Mac's business model and had a vision of expanding the  chain across the Nation--with a goal of opening 1,000 restaurants in  the U.S. Before long, Ray returned to Chicago with the rights in hand  to establish McDonald's restaurants throughout the country. On April  15, 1955, Kroc opened his first McDonald's restaurant in Des Plaines,  IL--the City of Destiny. Its first day of sales was $366.12, equivalent  to about $4,374 today. A global franchise was born.

While this liberal arts lawyer is far from a high-rolling stock  broker, I am not shy to say that I knew McDonald's was going to be a  success. Not because of any sophisticated financial analysis or  detailed market research--I just knew the McDonald's in East St. Louis  was one of the few restaurants that always had a line.

Today, McDonald's operates 36,000 restaurants in more than 100  nations, and it bolsters economies across the country and world. And  there are few more recognizable logos than the McDonald's Golden  Arches. Crisscrossing the State of Illinois requires driving hundreds  of miles on interstate highways. And after long stretches on the road,  I have made my fair share of stops at the Golden Arches. So many stops,  in fact, that my wife Loretta and my chief of staff conspired to  institute a rule: No more pit stops at McDonald's.

You also are sure find McDonald's on your international travels. In  fact, I remember being in Moscow when the first McDonald's opened in  Pushkin Square. It was January 31, 1990, and I remember seeing the  dreary grey colors of the former Soviet Union punctuated by the Golden  Arches. It was a vision of hope for many, representing the  possibilities available under a free society.

But the reach of McDonald's goes beyond hamburgers and french fries.  If you are a parent whose child is dealing with the devastation of  illness, you have heard of Ronald McDonald House. Providing housing,  resources, and support for families with children who are ill or  injured, the nearly hundreds of Ronald McDonald House programs across  the world keep families traveling for their child's medical needs cared  for and together. And McDonald's helps make this effort a reality.

The story of McDonald's is one of three sons of immigrants using  their drive, ingenuity, and ambition to go from a local drive-in  restaurant to one of the most profitable businesses the world has ever  known. While the days of 15-cent hamburgers and 20-cent cheeseburgers  may be gone, the economic contributions and storied history of  McDonald's continues to strengthen Illinois and our Nation. I am  grateful Chicago is home to such a treasured American franchise that  reminds us of the promise of America.

Congratulations to McDonald's on 70 years of leaving a lasting  impact.