Rescissions


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last week, both the House and the Senate  voted to pass what is known as a rescissions bill. That is a term which  a lot of people aren't familiar with. What it basically means is that  Congress appropriates money, the President signs that appropriations  request into law, and it is the policy which is supposed to guide,  under the Constitution, the President of the United States and the  activity of the executive branch. This is the ordinary course of  events.

However, there may come a time when a President decides that we don't  need this expenditure, even though it has been approved and it is the  law. He then goes through the rescinding of his decision to spend the  money. It is called a rescissions bill. In this case, the Trump  administration came to Congress and said: The $9 billion that you  appropriated and directed me to spend, I don't want to spend. I want  your permission not to spend it--$9 billion.

That is what we voted on and the House voted on last week. What was  in this bill were primarily two major elements. One element was foreign  aid, humanitarian assistance around the world paid for by the United  States. The other element was public broadcasting--National Public  Radio, for example. So $8 billion was taken out of foreign aid, and $1  billion was taken away from public broadcasting.

It was a close vote in the Senate. Two Republicans joined the  Democrats in opposing it, but there were enough Republicans to support  it. It barely passed the Senate and was sent back to the House. After  some turmoil in the House, the decision was made also to pass the  rescissions bill.

I thought this was a particularly important bill. As a Member of the  Senate--I am honored to represent the State of Illinois--I have cast  over 9,000 votes. The Presiding Officer from Utah is new to the Senate.  It will take him  a few years to catch me, and I am sure he will. But of the 9,000 votes  in that period of time, how many do you actually remember? A handful.  This vote last week was one of those votes.

Why will I remember this? Because nongovernmental organizations,  charities, and humanitarian aid groups around the world have told us  that taking $8 billion out of foreign aid and humanitarian assistance  is going to cost us in terms of lives. It will deny people food, clean  water to drink, medicine, and the basics of life. In the poorest places  on Earth, it will cost us lives.

The original bill eliminated a program called PEPFAR. PEPFAR was  created by Republican President George W. Bush. He rallied our  government--Democrats and Republicans--to lead a national and  international effort to stop HIV/AIDS. For example, if a mother is  pregnant again and had HIV, the transmission of that disease to the  baby was, unfortunately, very common. We started finding ways to stop  it from happening. It has been many years since George W. Bush was  President, but we estimate that we have saved 25 million lives with  this PEPFAR Program. I am a loyal Democrat and proud of it but was  happy to vote with the Republicans and George W. Bush on that program.  That program was going to be eliminated by this bill that was  considered. It was taken out at the last minute. That is the type of  thing that was at stake in that vote.

That decision by the Senate and the House, signed by President Trump  over the weekend, is going to cost human lives in the poorest places on  Earth. I think that is a tragedy. I have been to some of those places.  I have made a point of going to see it and to see our programs.

I remember a dusty village in India where the children were gathered  around for what they called lunch. American kids would not have touched  what they were being given to eat. They were basically dough bowls.  They were grains from the United States that were blended together.  They ate these dough bowls gleefully, happily, anxiously. But before  they took the first bite, they stopped and said a prayer, and I asked  the local people who were leading this effort: What did they say in  prayer? They said that they said thank to you the United States of  America for the food that they were going to eat that day. They knew  that was the case because it was printed on the bags as a gift to their  people from America. Those programs are going to be eliminated now  because of the vote last week.

But there was another part of it, too, that struck me as really  painful. That was the decision to eliminate the Federal support for  public broadcasting--National Public Radio and public television. I am  a fan. I have been a fan for a long time so I will confess my  prejudice.

But I am also from Downstate Illinois. That is the part of the State  outside Chicago where the small towns and the rural areas are located.  I know what public broadcasting means to those areas. I heard firsthand  an example of what it means.

A lady named Heather Norman, who is with the public broadcasting  coalition in Illinois, joined me at a press conference, on Friday, in  front of the public radio station in the city of Chicago. I asked her  to tell me and the press who had gathered an example of why public  radio was different than the other radio stations and why it was  important. She gave me a very classic example.

She works at the public radio station in Macomb, IL. Macomb is a  Downstate community on the western side of our State--a more sparsely  populated area than people visualize when they say Chicago, IL. Western  Macomb, IL, has Western Illinois University. Thousands of students from  all around the State and the area attend college there. A year ago,  there was an active shooter in the community. They learned about it  through the police notifying the radio station, and they started  broadcasting to the people of Macomb to stay in their homes, to shelter  in place. Don't go outside until we control the situation. Wait for the  police's signal.

Well, there was a lot at stake. We have seen on a lot of our campuses  and universities where deranged people take a gun and kill innocent  students right and left, and we didn't want that to happen again. So  the public broadcasting station, the NPR station, kept the broadcast  going all day long to notify the people of Macomb and the McDonough  County area of the danger, and they warned them to stay home.

You say: I will bet the other radio station did too. They didn't. Why  didn't they do it? Because the four other radio stations are  recordings. There is no live person at those radio stations--just  equipment. So they are playing their music and whatever programs they  wish, but they couldn't send out local news because there was no one  there to send it. It was the public broadcasting station--the public  radio station--that kept the people of Macomb and McDonough County  safe. So, to say that you can eliminate that station, and it won't make  any difference whether the warning is about an active shooter or about  a tornado or a flood or a flash fire, public broadcasting is there on  the scene, doing their job, day in and day out.

Now, what is going to happen with this decision by the Trump  administration to eliminate Federal support for these stations? I don't  know. I asked Heather. She said there are probably two stations in our  State--at least two--that will go out of business. They depend so much  on the help from Washington. That is a loss.

Whether you are conservative or liberal, MAGA or progressive-- whatever you want to call yourself--how could you want an America with  less information and with fewer choices as the sources of that  information?

The strength of our democracy is the fact that the American people  have access to good, credible information and can make up their own  minds. They don't want to be told. They make up their own minds. That  is the key to the core of democracy, and we attacked it last week when  we eliminated support for public broadcasting.

I don't know what is going to happen next. A lot of people have to  think about this. I said to the people who govern public broadcasting  and public television and public radio: You will have to think of a  plan B because this President wants to put you out of business. You  can't do what some law firms have done that he got mad at. He got mad  at the law firms and threatened to cut off their Federal business. What  did they do? They sued for peace immediately. They said: What can we  do? Can we give you thousands and, maybe, hundreds of thousands of free  legal services?

When that intimidation is in place, some of them turn to that as an  alternative, but a public broadcasting station cannot do that and  maintain its credibility. It can't go hat in hand and bent knee to  this administration or to any administration and maintain its  credibility when it comes to news.

So they have a terrible challenge that they face. I want to help them  find a solution. I think America would be poorer and less free, and  there would be less information available to people in our country if  we allowed this to go forward.