Venezuela


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, it is a heady experience to go through a  classified briefing at the highest levels of our government, and  virtually every U.S. Senator of both political parties had that  opportunity this morning. I took advantage of it. It is rare and  important. It was an explanation by our leaders in the Cabinet and the  administration of what happened in Venezuela just a few days ago when  Mr. Maduro was removed from power and brought to the United States to  be held accountable for his actions in narcotics terrorism.

This is not a new issue to me. In 2018, I took a trip to Caracas and  met with President Maduro, his First Lady, and members of his  administration. It was clear to me that Venezuela was in trouble. You  could see it on the streets. People were literally starving, and  hospitals were going without medicine. It was pretty clear to me that  Maduro was ruling not by democratic appeal but by the force of his  power in office.

He was facing an election in just a few weeks, and I told him at that  time that, if he did not have international observers at his election  to verify that it was an honest election, the world would not believe  the results. He ignored my advice, which was no surprise. He went ahead  with the election and had a disputed result. He claimed victory, which  others said didn't happen, and he did it again a few years  later. So he discredited himself in the eyes of the world community,  and his country continued to suffer.

Hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of Venezuelans abandoned  Venezuela, saying it was impossible to live there under his  authoritarian rule without the basics of life: food, medicine, and  shelter. So this decision to remove him is not one that causes tears in  my household. We believe he was unfit for office. He was defeated in  the election, and he had to pay a price for it. I am glad that he is  not in power today.

During the course of our briefing this morning, our military leaders  and others spelled out the details of how he was physically removed  from office just a few days ago. He still is going to be held  accountable in the courts of law in the United States--that is for  sure--but there is also discussion about where we go from here.

If you remove the President of a country, what happens next?

Under their constitution, a woman named Delcy Rodriguez, the Vice  President, was sworn in as his successor. I met her during my visit  there. She is a hard-liner when it comes to the politics of the region  and her brother even more so. We spoke for a period of time, and I  became convinced that they would be difficult to deal with, although  that is the reality of the moment.

Here is the point I want to make: I understand why our administration  was very careful in disclosing information about the removal of Maduro  from office. The lives and futures of the men and women in uniform from  the United States were on the line, and we should not compromise their  safety in any way to achieve our goal; but there comes a point--and  that point should be immediately--when this administration decides to  trust the American people and tell them the whole story. I believe  there are things that can be said which will not compromise the safety  of the United States or our friends but that explains to the American  people what is at stake here.

What happened in that raid to remove Maduro from office?

Most of the details are an amazing display of military superiority,  which the United States enjoys, but there were other questions that  were raised, too, during the course of this.

In addition, the question is, Where do we go from here? What is going  to happen to Venezuela's future? What is our responsibility? What are  we accepting?

The American people need to be in on that conversation. It is easy, I  learned in my time in the House and Senate, to get into a war but that  it is far more difficult to get out of one. I worry that, many times,  we have blundered into a situation which looks so simple in terms of  nation building, and it turned out to be so complex. Then the war went  on for years and years and years at the expense of not only American  taxpayers but, more importantly, American lives. It is time for the  American people to be part of that conversation. Why do I think so?  Because the Constitution explicitly says it.

The Constitution says that the power to declare war in the United  States resides in this Chamber and in the House of Representatives.  Congress has the only authority to declare war. This President, like  many others of both parties, has ignored that requirement and, I think,  at his own peril. They are engaging us in a long-term conflict which  could cost us dearly, and they are not engaging the American people in  the discussion and rationale of our ultimate goals in the region.

This briefing this morning was a good one. Senator Tim Kaine of  Virginia asked a question, and I think it was the right question: When  are we going to trust the American people enough to tell them exactly  what happened in Venezuela leading up to the removal of Maduro and what  is likely to follow? It is an important, critical question. It will be  costly in terms of the future of the United States of America if we are  not explicit and honest with the people of this country. Now is the  time for that honesty.