Recognizing Arthur Coia of Rhode Island


Mr. AMO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a recently passed  giant of the labor movement in Rhode Island and around the country,  Arthur Coia.

Labor was the heart and soul of Arthur Armand Coia. He was born into  a family of labor leaders. As a member of Local 271 in Providence since  his teenage years, he worked in construction while going to Providence  College and attending law school. He was always close to his union  roots.

A union man through and through, he dedicated his life to expanding  workers' organizing rights. He fought for the right to earn a fair  paycheck and have dignity and safety on the job.

He started out as the business manager of the Rhode Island Laborers'  District Council and rose to become the general president of LiUNA and  vice president of the AFL-CIO.

Arthur worked tirelessly to make life better for the working men and  women of our country. He helped found the Laborers' Health & Safety  Fund of North America, transforming job-site safety, and the Laborers- Employers Cooperation and Education Trust, helping union labor train  workers and expand market share.

There is no doubt that his work saved lives, prevented accidents, and  helped union labor gain new opportunities in the 21st century.

Arthur was not only a labor leader, he was also a dedicated father,  grandfather, husband, and friend. My thoughts are with his family at  this incredibly difficult time.

I hope they, as I do, take heart in his service to the movement and  to others. His contributions will not be forgotten.                 recognizing alan hassenfeld of rhode island

Mr. AMO. Mr. Speaker, Alan Hassenfeld, another titan in Rhode Island,  spent his life bettering the lives of countless individuals in our  country and around the world.

Born in Providence in 1948, Alan dedicated his professional life to  bringing joy to generations of children as the CEO of his family's  company, Hasbro Toys.

Alan helped the company acquire quintessential children's brands like  Play-Doh, Monopoly, and Nerf, and took their iconic tuber, Mr. Potato  Head, to new heights in the Hollywood film ``Toy Story.''

Growing up in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, I have fond memories of Mr.  and Mrs. Potato Head statues popping up across Rhode Island. Under  Alan's guidance, Hasbro teamed up with the State of Rhode Island for a  tourism campaign featuring the whimsical statues of the spud made by  local artists highlighting the Ocean State's role as the birthplace of  fun.

However, it was outside the toy chest that Alan's incredible civic  spirit and unmatched generosity shone. His contributions to Rhode  Island's civic life were numerous and impactful.

Alan spearheaded a political ethics reform movement, pioneered  concepts of social responsibility at the corporate level, and worked to  end the use of child labor in toy production supply chains. He invested  in generations of public sector leaders. He founded the Hassenfeld  Child Health Innovation Institute at Brown University to improve family  mental health and created RI For Gun Safety to promote commonsense gun  reform.

Perhaps most notably, he provided the vision and the founding  donation for Hasbro Children's hospital in Providence.

Thanks to Alan, Rhode Island is home to a world-class pediatric  healthcare facility providing for the specialty and emergency needs of  the littlest New Englanders.

Alan was a philanthropist, businessman, and reformer, but, most  important, he was a dear friend, husband, stepfather, uncle, and  granddad.

Before taking this office, and once sworn in, Alan provided me wise  counsel sharing pragmatic, solutions-oriented advice on how to be of  service and make change.

Alan exemplified community spirit and dedication to others, business  acumen, incredible generosity, friendship, and, of course, leadership.  He represented the best of Rhode Island, and he will be truly and  deeply missed.