Trump's First 100 Days


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690634/trumps-first-100-days


Mr. AMO. Mr. Speaker, as many of my colleagues in the Congressional  Black Caucus have laid out, Donald Trump has failed the American  people. That is why I am grateful to my colleagues, Representatives  Kamlager-Dove and Brown, for leading this Special Order hour.

Let's focus on these failures. In countless ways, Donald Trump has  failed the American people. He has failed to bring down prices for  families. He has failed to keep Americans safe. He has failed to heal  or even attempt or pretend to address the deep divides that plague this  country. In fact, he is making them worse.

Worse still, he has refused any kind of accountability for the  countless mistakes that he, Elon, and the crew have made over the past  100 days. When the stock market is up, that is because of him. When the  stock market tanks, that is Joe Biden's fault. If it doesn't get  better, that is Joe Biden's fault, too.

Mr. Speaker, no parent would accept this behavior from their child,  so why do we accept it from the President? No company would accept this  temperament from an employee, so why do we see this behavior normalized  by Republicans when we see this bad behavior in our Commander in Chief?

Mr. Speaker, surely, we can still tell the difference between right  and wrong. Certainly, we can do that right here in this Chamber.  Surely, when we see cancer research funding eliminated, when 2-year-old  citizens are deported, when the budget resolution calls for the largest  proposed cut to Medicaid ever, surely, we can say these things are  wrong, no?

The American people are calling for leadership. They are calling for  solutions to help them afford basic necessities. They want to be able  to tell their loved ones it is going to be okay, but they are not  getting that right now, especially in the Black community.

Instead, they are getting political theater about renaming the Gulf  of Mexico and military parades. They are getting authoritarian threats  about ignoring the Constitution and running for a third term.

It is unserious. It is unbecoming. It is wrong. Let's call it what it  is. It is dangerous.

Mr. Speaker, at the end of the day, history will judge how all of us  respond to this moment. I think I know what side I want to be on. I  want to be on the side of the Congressional Black Caucus, the side of  the conscience of the Congress.

Mr. Speaker, Donald Trump has been a failure. Where he fails, we are  here. We will fight. We will fight for fairness, justice, and the  promise that has been denied far too many Americans for far too long.

May we continue down this righteous road today to fight and to march  on for all the battles that lie ahead.