Tipped Employee Protection Act


Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice opposition to this  bill, the Tipped Employee Protection Act.

Don't be fooled by the name of it. There is nothing proworker in this  bill. It is like calling increased air pollution the blue sky  initiative. This is just another attempt from my Republican colleagues  to create loopholes that allow employers to get away with wage theft.

Anyone who has visited my district in downtown Las Vegas and the  strip will know that our world-class hospitality workers are the magic  behind the glitz and glamour. With the power of organized labor, casino  workers, servers, line cooks, housekeepers, and others put Las Vegas on  the map as a world-renowned hospitality center.

The tourism, gaming, and entertainment industries account for more  than 315,000 jobs in our State. We have proven in Nevada that if you  pay workers what they deserve, everybody wins.

I am especially proud that our State bans subminimum wages for tipped  employees. That means, whether an employee has a good or a bad tipping  month, an employee can still earn an honest living.

More needs to be done to support our workers. This is especially true  as the Trump slump threatens our tourism economy and the Trump  administration cuts vital safety nets like SNAP.

That is why I introduced the LIFT Act last year. It would raise the  minimum wage and all subminimum wages to $17 an hour over the next 3  years with annual increases after that. In contrast, the bill before us  today would change the definition of tipped employee in a manner that  would allow employers to undercut wages.

Anybody in the service industry knows that tips vary from shift to  shift. Under the current law, the definition of tipped employee  accounts for those realities by stipulating that an employee must  customarily and regularly--customarily and regularly--receive more than  $30 a month in tips.

Yet, the bill we are considering today would allow employers to  measure a worker's tips over just a single day of work. Employers could  manipulate schedules and purposely choose to count days where workers  get more tips in order to pay them less.

In 15 States, that means even more workers will be making just $2.13  an hour. That can't even buy a carton of eggs in Trump's economy, much  less pay the rent. A more accurate name for this would be the employer  profits protection act.

Mr. Speaker, I agree with my colleagues on this side of the aisle and  urge everyone to stand up for workers and vote ``no'' on this bill.