Calling on Trump Administration to Restore Food Aid


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692267/calling-on-trump-administration-to-restore-food-aid


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today for the 19th time to call on  the Trump administration to restore funding for lifesaving food aid for  malnourished children.

I am a father. I have a 3-year-old and 1-year-old at home, Max and  Lucy. Like any parent, I want the very best for my kids. I am so lucky  that I do not have to worry about whether they will be fed today or  tomorrow. Yet, around the world, malnutrition and starvation is the  number one cause of death for children.

When a child suffers from malnutrition, it stunts their growth. Their  organs shut down. For toddlers, like my 3-year-old, they can have their  body weight reduced to be as low as an infant's.

When they suffer from extreme malnutrition, they can't be fed  traditional food anymore. In order to save their lives and to cure  their malnutrition, they need this: Plumpy'Nut. It is a packet of  fortified paste. They take one of these per day. After a month, they  are back up to normal body weight and healthy once again.

Edesia Nutrition in North Kingstown is one of two places in the  country that produces Plumpy'Nut. All the ingredients, the peanuts,  soybeans, sugar, and dairy, come from American farms and  factories. It is manufactured here in the United States and, until  recently, was shipped around the world, reaching 400,000 children a  month.

Think about that, Mr. Speaker. That is 400,000 children a month whose  lives were being saved--that is, until Elon Musk and the Trump  administration cut off funding for this program.

There is nothing woke about this. This is not waste. This is not  fraud. This is nutrition for starving kids, and it needs to be  restored.

These production lines have been shut down. There are boxes and boxes  of this stuff sitting in a warehouse in Rhode Island instead of getting  to the kids who need it.

What is the impact of this halt in funding? Not only does it mean  that there are more kids starving around the world by the thousands,  but it also means that our adversaries, particularly China, have a  golden opportunity to swoop in to the rescue and build good will with  nations all around the world.

Mr. Speaker, foreign aid is not just charity. It serves our interests  as a country, as well, when we build good will with nations that have  rare earth minerals and can assist us in intelligence gathering against  terrorist organizations and our other adversaries. This is part of how  we build strong relationships around the world to make Americans safer.  When we cut off this aid, which is a tiny, tiny fraction of the Federal  budget, then it only helps our adversaries.

The entire funding for this program was about $80 million a year. The  Cannon House Office Building across the street is being renovated at a  cost of $800 million. We are spending 10 times as much to renovate our  office building as we were spending a year to save the lives of  thousands and thousands of children suffering from malnutrition. What  kind of priorities are those?

Here is the thing: The good news is that Trump administration  officials, including Secretary Rubio, have said over and over that they  are going to restore funding for this program. They admit that this is  not waste or fraud but that this is part of the core mission of what  USAID was supposed to be.

That is great. Why haven't they sent the money? What is the holdup?  It has been 5 months now, and they have said over and over that they  intend to restore funding for emergency food aid. They just haven't  done it yet. Why not? Every day that goes by is a day that children are  unnecessarily going hungry.

Once again, I am going to rise in this Chamber every day until the  administration keeps their word and restores funding for emergency food  aid for children around the world.