Cuts to Public Broadcasting


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the  proposed Republican cuts to public broadcasting.

Next week, our Republican colleagues are planning to bring a bill to  the floor that would mean a devastating cut of funding to shows like  ``Sesame Street'' and ``Mister Rogers' Neighborhood,'' all in their  endless quest to find more money for tax cuts for their billionaire  donors.

It is important for people to understand that television is changing.  More and more content is being put behind paywalls, and PBS is one of  the only sources of children's educational television that is still  accessible to every child for free.

Studies show that kids who grow up watching PBS get better grades,  read more, are better at expressing their feelings, and have better  educational outcomes. Educational television, when it is high quality,  works.

I have two young kids myself, Max and Lucy. I cannot tell you enough  about how important it is to have access to affordable, high-quality  educational content for children.

Public television has always been about the simple idea that every  child deserves access to learning or inspiration, even if their  families don't have a lot of money. That is why it is so important that  we continue to support PBS and public broadcasting in general.

I am asking my colleagues to evoke one of my son's favorite programs,  ``Mister Rogers,'' and be a good neighbor. Vote ``no'' on the cuts to  public broadcasting.                   restore funding for lifesaving food aid

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today for the 16th time to beg the  Trump administration to honor its word and restore funding for  lifesaving food aid for starving children.

This is Plumpy'Nut, an emergency paste that is used to treat  malnourished children. Until recently, the United States shipped this  product all across the world, saving lives, saving the lives of  children suffering from malnutrition.

This is important because it is the right thing to do, but it is also  the smart thing to do for the United States. I want to read a quote  from someone who I think understands that. ``It is going to be a lot  harder to recruit someone to anti-Americanism, anti-American terrorism,  if the United States of America was the reason why they are even alive  today.'' This quote, Mr. Speaker, is from our own Secretary of State,  Marco Rubio, before he started working for President Trump.

A couple of weeks ago, Secretary Rubio was in front of Congress.  Under questioning from our colleagues Representative DeLauro, my  colleague from Rhode Island, Gabe Amo, Senator Booker, and others,  Secretary Rubio said again that he understood the importance of  continuing to fund emergency food aid.

Why isn't it being done? Why are there boxes and boxes of this  product sitting in warehouses in the United States, waiting for funding  to be restored when the Trump administration has said that they intend  to do so?

When we do not deliver on our promises as a country, it erodes trust,  makes it harder for the United States to build relationships around the  world, and gives an open opportunity for our adversaries, particularly  China, to swoop in and save the day.

We cannot allow this to happen, not only because of the moral  imperative of saving the lives of starving children around the world  but out of our own self-interest. It is in our interest to build good  will. We can do it if the Trump administration will just do what it  says it is going to do and restore funding for emergency food aid.

Secretary Rubio said that it is going to happen. Elon Musk said that  it is going to happen. It has been 4 months now, and we are still  waiting.

What is the delay? Let's get this food aid moving again now. I will  continue to speak on the House floor every day until we do.