Economic Populism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689081/economic-populism


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Deluzio for bringing us  together and helping us have an important conversation about how we  restore the mantle of fighting for working people.

I was born and raised in the most patriotic town in the country,  Bristol, Rhode Island. We have the oldest and longest running Fourth of  July celebration in the country. I learned from a young age to be  patriotic, but I also learned that patriotism is not just about parades  and parties and barbecues, it is about believing in a country where  anything is possible for those who are willing to work hard. I know  that because it is my family's story.

At the turn of the last century, my mother's family came to America  from Ireland and Poland. My grandfather fought in the Pacific then came  home and worked in a factory that made airplane parts. His wife, my  grandmother, worked in a department store. Their jobs weren't  glamorous. They weren't anything special, but they earned enough to buy  a house, to raise four kids, and to build a stable, middle-class life.

My father's side of the family had a similar story. They came from  Eastern Europe and settled in New York City. My great-grandfather got  involved in labor organizing, and my grandfather was a bookkeeper at a  company that sold fruit.

They all came of age during the New Deal era, and they voted Democrat  because they knew that the Democratic Party had the backs of working  people.

Then my parents met, and they started a small business together. They  were successful, and now here I am in the United States Congress thanks  to the hard work of the generations that came before me.

Today, in Rhode Island, I meet working people every day who remind me  of my grandparents: factory workers, house cleaners, nurses, kitchen  workers. They are grinding out a living, believing that if they work  hard and do the right thing that better days lie ahead.

The more I hear from the working people I represent, they are  frustrated with politics. They don't think either party represents  them. They are working harder than ever and are having a hard time  paying their bills. They certainly can't afford to save money.

They see billionaires on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley get richer  while they can't afford everything on their grocery list. They see Elon  Musk, the richest man in the world, gleefully cutting services for  seniors and veterans while Donald Trump pushes yet another tax cut for  the very rich.

They see a Republican Party hell-bent on taking away people's  healthcare and a Democratic Party that means well but tries to be all  things to all people and too often fails to deliver.

Our grandparents knew a Democratic Party that not only had good  intentions but that knew how to get things done. The working people I  represent don't want a handout, but they do expect a level playing  field and a fair shot, and they want a Democratic Party with a real  plan.

What does that look like? It looks like making billionaires like Elon  Musk pay their fair share so that we can give tax relief to the middle  class. It looks like passing the PRO Act so that workers in retail and  fast food can join a union and earn a ticket to the middle class like  my grandfather did in his factory. It looks like universal preschool  and affordable childcare, not just because it is good for kids, but  because it helps parents work and build their savings. It means passing  my bill to guarantee 10 days of paid vacation for all workers because  Americans work hard, and they deserve to take some time off every once  in a while and enjoy their lives without losing their jobs or their  income.

For too long the system in this town has been rigged for the wealthy  and well-connected, but that does not have to be our future. There is a  new generation rising, people who are tired of being left behind and  are ready for something better.

We don't need the Democratic Party to be all things to all people. We  just need to reclaim our position as the party for working people. That  work begins now, and I thank my colleagues who are here tonight who get  it. I thank Representative Deluzio for bringing us together. I am ready  to roll up my sleeves alongside of you.