Funding Food Aid for Malnutrition


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690809/funding-food-aid-for-malnutrition


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today for the sixth time to call  for the Trump administration to restore funding for lifesaving food aid  for malnourished children.

It has been 2 months since Congress passed and President Trump signed  a funding bill for fiscal year 2025. It included money that can be used  to continue purchasing ready-to-use therapeutic food, a miracle peanut  paste that saves the lives of starving children and is produced by,  among others, Edesia Nutrition in my district in Rhode Island with  ingredients sourced from States all across our country.

Here we are in May, and since the Trump administration came into  office in January, not a single dollar of that money has gone to buying  this promised lifesaving food aid. Instead, Edesia  has boxes of food stuck in warehouses, factory workers laid off, with  children suffering from severe malnutrition and famine.

This is food that has already been paid for by the American taxpayers  that could be used to feed starving children who are victims of war and  famine, but instead, it sits in a warehouse benefiting no one.

We need the funding that this Congress provided to go through now  because starving children can't wait. To make matters worse, the  administration's fiscal year 2026 so-called skinny budget completely  eliminates funding for the Food for Peace program, a bipartisan program  that is the main source of funding for food assistance to combat hunger  and malnutrition while also supporting America's farmers and  agriculture industry. We must reject that plan and continue to fund  Food for Peace.

In the meantime, though, this is urgent. For fiscal year 2025, the  funding has already been appropriated. It has been approved. It has  been signed by the President. We need the administration to put in the  new orders to continue this flow of lifesaving aid to children.

Jacobs),  a person who has been a real champion on the issue of hunger around the  world, to hear her thoughts on the subject.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Jacobs for her long body of  work championing children around the world, particularly on the issue  of malnutrition. I will continue to stand in this Chamber every day we  are in session and speak on this topic until funding for RUTF is  restored.