Funding for Research Under Threat


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702004/funding-for-research-under-threat


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, a recent vaccine trial for patients with  pancreatic cancer using mRNA technology produced an astounding result:  Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest forms of cancer.

More than 90 percent of people diagnosed with pancreatic cancer die  within 2 years, but among those who were in this vaccine trial, half  are still alive today, more than 6 years later.

If these results continue in future rounds of the trial, we will have  made an incredible breakthrough that could give new hope not only to  those with pancreatic cancer but other forms of cancer, as well. This  is just one of many ongoing studies showing great promise.

Unfortunately, right when we are on the cusp of making incredible  advances in the fight against cancer, the funding for this research is  under threat.

Last year, the White House proposed cutting funding for cancer  research by 40 percent and canceled a number of research grants. Some  of the biggest cuts have been to research of mRNA, the same technology  used in the successful pancreatic cancer trial.

In August, the administration canceled grants for 22 mRNA vaccine  research studies alone. This does not make America healthier.

My own family has been afflicted by cancer. I know the agony people  feel when they receive that terrible diagnosis, the horrible process of  chemo and radiation, the cost, and the sorrow that American families  have had to live with because of a serious cancer diagnosis.

We cannot turn our backs on those families when we are so close to  finding  real cures. We have to continue funding the research.

The truth is that, even before the current administration, we weren't  doing enough. Last year, the Federal Government spent about $7 billion  on cancer research. The war in Iran is costing us more than a billion  dollars a day.

Think about that. We will spend more on the war in Iran in 1 week  than we spend on cancer research in an entire year. Think about the  lives that could be saved and the families who would get to spend more  holidays and graduations with their loved ones if we had the right  priorities.

We don't need to spend billions more on unnecessary wars in the  Middle East or ballrooms or more ICE agents. Instead, let's do what we  do best as a country and invest in innovation and science to save  lives.                               Stock-Trading Ban

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, it has been exactly 1 year since Speaker  Johnson said that he supports a stock-trading ban for Members of  Congress. One year, and what has happened? Absolutely nothing.

We need to pass a congressional stock-trading ban because it is not  fair that Members of Congress have access to inside information that  influences major industries--the pharmaceutical industry, the tech  industry, and others--and can trade off of that information that  average Americans don't have.

By the way, Members of Congress should not be conflicted when making  decisions about how to legislate. The overwhelming majority of the  American people want this reform. They understand that we have a  corruption problem in Washington.

If a bill were brought to the floor today, it would pass  overwhelmingly. I have a bipartisan bill along with Chip Roy, and  Members on both the left, right, and center: Pramila Jayapal,  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Brian Fitzpatrick, and Tim Burchett. We have  a great bill with over 100 cosponsors. We could vote on that today, and  it would pass.

We have got a discharge petition. We can get this done. We need a  Speaker with the courage to do the right thing and call a vote.