Government Funding and Healthcare


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695636/government-funding-and-healthcare


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, it was just announced this week that  health insurance costs in Rhode Island are going to go up by as much as  22 percent next year, costing working people thousands of dollars more  per year to pay for their health insurance. This is money that people  don't have. Most people in my State, most people in this country are  just barely getting by. They can't afford to pay thousands of dollars  more for their health insurance.

It is not just in Rhode Island that it is happening. It is all across  the country. State after State is announcing next year's insurance  rates with double digit increases. We know why this is happening. It is  happening because Republicans and the Trump administration just cut a  trillion dollars from Medicaid, and now they are also trying to let the  Affordable Care Act tax premiums expire.

When you do that, when you take trillions of dollars out of the  healthcare system, you are not just taking away health insurance  coverage from millions of Americans, you are also taking revenue away  from hospitals, community health centers, and doctors' practices. The  only way that those healthcare providers can stay in business is to  raise prices on everybody else, and that is exactly what is happening.

We told our Republican colleagues that this is what would happen when  they passed that trillion dollar cut to Medicaid. We told them that  health insurance costs were going to go up for everybody else in the  country, but they didn't want to hear it. They were so desperate to  give away tax cuts to the rich, and now those people watching at home  are going to be paying the bill in the form of higher healthcare costs.

However, it is not too late. We can still restore funding for  healthcare so that everyone back home isn't hit by double-digit cost  increases on their insurance.

Congress is about to pass a budget for next year, and we can pass a  budget that restores funding for healthcare, that extends the  Affordable Care Act tax premiums, that restores funding for Medicaid so  that working people aren't stuck with higher costs for their health  insurance. Not only can we do this, we must.

I want to vote for a bipartisan budget that funds the government and  protects healthcare for the American people, but if, as has been  advertised, the Republican majority tries to rush a vote on a budget  that does not fix the healthcare crisis, the healthcare crisis that  they created, then I will be a ``no.'' All of my colleagues should be,  as well.

Republicans control the House, Senate, and the White House. If they  refuse to pass a budget that protects healthcare, they own the  consequences. If they choose to shut the government down instead of  fixing the healthcare crisis that they created, the American people  will not forgive them.                        Restoring Lifesaving Food Aid

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise for the 41st time to call on the  Trump administration to restore lifesaving food aid for children  starving around the world. Edesia Nutrition in my district is about to  send 15,000 boxes of this lifesaving food aid to children who are  starving in Gaza.

Now, in the past, this would have been done with support from  America, from the U.S. taxpayers, and the boxes shipped to Gaza would  have said ``from the American people.'' However, because the Trump  administration has cut off lifesaving food aid for children, instead  this shipment is being funded by the Israelis and nonprofit  organizations working with Edesia Nutrition.

This is a missed opportunity for America to be building goodwill in a  very unstable part of the world, one of many missed opportunities  because when we act to save the lives of starving children around the  world, we are not just doing the right thing morally, we are helping  make America stronger by building goodwill around the world.

The Trump administration has promised repeatedly that they are going  to restore this program, but promises do not save the lives of starving  kids. Only nutrition can do that.

I will continue to speak on this floor every day until the Trump  administration honors its word and restores this program.