Hands Off Social Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689770/hands-off-social-security


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today for the more than 120,000  people in my district who count on Social Security, a sacred promise  earned through decades of hard work.

Social Security is the bedrock of retirement for the middle class. It  means dignity after a lifetime of work.

Donald Trump and Elon Musk are firing the staff that run the Social  Security office, all to find more money to pay for tax cuts for  billionaires, and the impact has been devastating.

Last month alone, the Social Security website crashed four times in  10 days for hours, in one case for almost an entire day, locking  retirees out of their accounts.

People who try to call the Social Security offices are on hold for  hours because all the staff in the offices have been fired.

Now, they are threatening to shut down the phone lines altogether and  close offices all across the country.

These aren't glitches. These are deliberate choices for no good  reason. This is a violation of the sacred promise of Social Security,  and I am urging this body and Members on both sides of the aisle to  listen to your constituents and stand up for the working people of your  districts who have paid into Social Security. This is their benefit  that they have earned.

Tell Elon Musk to get his hands off of the Social Security  Administration.         Recognizing Rhode Island State Police's Centennial Anniversary

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a century of  service from the Rhode Island State Police.

For 100 years, the men and women of the Rhode Island State Police  have answered the call through hurricanes and blizzards, working on the  highways, in cyberspace, and undercover, always committed to keeping  Rhode Islanders safe.

Established in 1925, the Rhode Island State Police was a new type of  police force. They were tasked with reaching and serving the areas that  were often underserved by the local police.

In the 1930s, the Rhode Island State Police established their  headquarters in North Scituate, where they remain to this day.

During their 100 years, they have been known for excellence in  disrupting organized crime, responding to emergencies, solving complex  financial and cybercrimes, and keeping the roads safe and traffic  moving. They also have a history of lending a hand to other States in  their times of need, including in Massachusetts after the Boston  Marathon bombing.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the Rhode Island State Police for a century of  service. They have our gratitude and our support.                            Support for Caregivers

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, every day in this country, millions of  people wake up and serve as caregivers for a parent, spouse, or a  sibling who is aging, sick, or disabled.

Let's be clear that this is work. It may not come with a title or a  W-2. Yet, for those family members who need a little extra help, it  means the world. In spite of the important role that family caregivers  play, they too often go overlooked.

That is why I am working with a bipartisan group of colleagues to  introduce legislation to make the lives and work of caregivers a little  easier. Together, we are introducing bills to expand access to tax-free  savings accounts to cover the costs of medical expenses, to improve  communication between Medicare and caregivers to streamline the  benefits process, and to create a new $5,000 tax credit to help offset  the costs of family caregiving.

Just a few weeks ago, I joined a bipartisan, bicameral group of  colleagues to introduce the Alleviating Barriers for Caregivers Act to  eliminate red tape for caregivers. Caregiving back home in my district  and across the country deserves support and deserves respect, and I am  calling on my colleagues to join me in helping those who give so much.