Prevent President Trump From Invading Other Countries


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to introduce the No Invading  Allies Act, a bill to prevent President Trump from invading Canada,  Greenland, or Panama without a vote of Congress.

It is crazy that we even have to have this conversation. These  places, these nations, are our allies. They pose no threat to the  United States. After thousands of brave American soldiers fought in  Iraq and Afghanistan, many losing their lives, their limbs, and their  loved ones, the last thing the American people want is to send our  troops to any new wars, especially against countries that pose no  threat to our own.

Now President Trump will not stop talking about taking over Canada,  Greenland, and Panama. He is obsessed.

Listen to me when I tell you that he is not joking. When he says he  wants to take over Canada, Greenland, and Panama, he means it. He even  said that we will ``[expand] our territory'' in his inaugural speech.  When was the last time you heard a President say something like that?

The American people do not want to take over other countries. Nobody  voted in the election to take over Canada or Greenland. The President  never talked about that during his campaign.

No one was thinking about taking over Canada when they went to vote  last November. No. The American people want lower costs, safe streets,  and peace. The last thing Americans want is unnecessary war. We cannot  trust Donald Trump to keep us out of one.

That is why I am introducing a new bill, the No Invading Allies Act,  to prevent the President from sending the Armed Forces to invade  Canada, Panama, or Greenland without a vote of Congress.

Our country's Founders feared the possibility of a President engaging  in unnecessary wars. In Article I of the Constitution, the Founders  gave Congress, not the President, the power to declare war. Congress  later passed the War Powers Resolution of 1973, which allows Presidents  to engage in military action for up to 60 days without a vote of  Congress, but Donald Trump's reckless threats to take over peaceful  nations means that he cannot be trusted with this unchecked power.

Congress must reassert our role under the Constitution by passing  this bill. With this bill, we send a message to our allies and  adversaries alike that the United States does not support the illegal  seizure of sovereign territory. Most importantly, we say to American  troops and their families that they will not be sent into more  unnecessary wars, not on our watch.

I urge my colleagues, whether you believe the President is serious  about wanting to take over other countries or not, whether you take him  at his word or not, whether you think he might involve us in  unnecessary wars of conflict or not, let's not leave it up to chance.

The decision of whether to make war is perhaps the most important  responsibility Congress has under the Constitution. Let's not surrender  our responsibility to a President who speaks so casually about taking  over other nations. Our men and women in uniform deserve better than  that, and our country deserves better than that.