Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H. Con. Res. Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding  me time.

Mr. Speaker, Donald Trump's tariffs are the biggest tax increase on  the middle class in this country in generations. Even with today's so- called pause announcement, he is still putting a 10 percent tax on  food, on energy, and on essentials that Americans need, while keeping  up with the high cost of living.

The number one thing that I hear in my district and that I know  everybody hears in their districts is the cost of living is too high.

Why in the world is this President increasing the cost of living for  millions of middle-class Americans?

At the same time, the stock market has tanked. Even after today's so- called pause, which is not a pause because it is still a 10 percent  tax--the S&P is down 10 percent since Trump took office, and trillions  of dollars of people's retirement savings are wiped out.

Mr. Speaker, what are our Republican colleagues doing to respond to  this insanity? The majority is trying to pass a rule that says that  Congress cannot overturn these tariffs even though the Constitution  gives Congress and not the President the sole authority to levy  tariffs.

Why are my Republican colleagues even bothering to show up to work?

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle are just giving the  executive branch all of the powers that the Constitution had originally  given to the Congress.

Why are Republicans even bothering to show up if my Republican  colleagues are just going to give all of our constitutional authority  to the executive to levy these taxes on middle-class Americans who  can't afford it?

I will say why Republicans are still showing up. As Mr. McGovern  said, this rule also includes the next step in a budget plan that would  cut taxes for billionaires at the same time that it cuts healthcare for  working people. The math doesn't lie. This budget plan requires $880  billion of cuts under the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, the majority could cut literally every  program under the Committee on Energy and Commerce except for Medicare  and Medicaid and only get to $200 billion. Where does the other $600  billion-plus come from?

It can only come from kicking people off of their health insurance so  that Elon Musk and the billionaires can get another tax cut that they  don't need. It is unconscionable.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''