Recognizing Important Victory for Countless Children Around the World


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696874/recognizing-important-victory-for-countless-children-around-the-world


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, after 9 months of delay, I rise today to  recognize an important victory for the United States and for thousands  of children around the world who have a new chance at life.

Finally, after months of advocacy and struggle, funding has been  restored for global emergency food aid for children. You see,  malnutrition is the number one cause of death for children under 5  globally, and when children are on the brink of starvation, their  organs break down, and they cannot even digest food if it is given to  them.

There is a proven treatment: ready-to-use therapeutic food, also  known as Plumpy'Nut, a shelf-stable peanut paste. It does not need to  be refrigerated. You don't need to add water. It has the nutrients that  children need to survive and grow back from the brink of starvation.

Edesia Nutrition in North Kingstown, Rhode Island, is one of the two  organizations that manufacture Plumpy'Nut. Since their founding, they  have saved over 25 million lives.

Earlier this year, in January, funding for Plumpy'Nut was cut off by  President Trump's DOGE initiative. New Federal orders were halted.  Production ground to a halt. Boxes of lifesaving food aid sat in  warehouses while children starved to death.

This was not just cruel. It was short-sighted.

America's reputation as a global leader suffers when we fail to  deliver international aid. Our adversaries--China, Russia, terrorist  organizations--fill the abyss when the United States pulls out.

A broad coalition of Americans fought back. In April, I made a  commitment that I would speak on this floor every legislative day until  funding was restored. I ended up speaking here 42 times in total to  demand that emergency food aid for children be restored.

I wasn't alone. My colleague from Rhode Island, Representative Amo,  made his voice heard on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  Representative Austin Scott from Georgia, whose district hosts the  other organization that manufactures Plumpy'Nut, was a vital partner.  Of course, Navyn Salem, the CEO of Edesia, never gave up her mission to  help starving kids in need.

Last month, the administration finally listened, and the program was  restored. A few weeks ago, Edesia was able to resume regular shipments.  I was there at the loading dock in North Kingstown, Rhode Island, when  the first new shipments went outbound for children whose small bodies  were struggling on the edge of starvation and who now have a chance to  survive and grow. I will never forget that moment.

This is proof that, even in these challenging times, it is possible  to get good things done. This victory wouldn't have happened if it  weren't for the advocacy of people at all levels, all across the  country, making their voices heard. It is a monumental step toward  restoring the moral standing of the United States abroad and saving  countless lives.

While I am very glad that this program is restored, that Edesia is up  and running again, and that funding for food aid is back, none of this  should have ever happened.

Make no mistake, children died needlessly because President Trump and  an unelected tech billionaire cut off their supply of food before  eventually reversing course. This is a lesson in the devastating  consequences of the chaotic slash-and-burn style of government that we  have seen too much of over the last year.

Nevertheless, today is a day for celebration, as Americans came  together to do the right thing, to advocate for those who couldn't  advocate for themselves, and to deliver a victory for countless  children around the world who now have a chance to grow and thrive.