Rewriting History


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699711/rewriting-history


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague,  Representative Stansbury, for bringing us together tonight to discuss  an important and alarming situation.

Every American should be outraged at the Trump administration's  attempt to erase American history and specifically to erase the history  of Black, Native American, Hispanic, and other people of color who have  helped shape this country.

The Department of the Interior under this administration recently  removed a slavery-related exhibit at Independence National Historical  Park in Philadelphia recognizing people enslaved by the Founders. They  removed a sign from Wyoming's Grand Teton National Park mentioning  Native American massacres. They have removed a sign at Bent's Old Fort  National Historic Site in Colorado describing the forced removal of a  Native Tribe and a family's slave ownership.

Why? Why are they doing this? When people try to erase history, they  are often doing it because they want to shape the future. They want to  shape a future in which America does not honor the full diversity that  has made our country the beacon of light that it is in the world. They  do not want people to know about the struggle that went into building  this more perfect Union. They want to build a future that looks more  like the past. We cannot allow that to happen.

This insidious plot to erase American history goes far beyond the  national parks and the Department of the Interior. The Trump  administration has given guidance to Federal agencies to limit the use  of or avoid using 200 words, including ``Tribal,'' ``Native American,''  ``immigrants,'' ``racial,'' ``Black,'' and ``women.''

They are not trying to erase all of our history. In fact, they have  restored a Confederate statue of General Albert Pike here in  Washington, D.C., and ordered a portrait of Robert E. Lee to be placed  in the Pentagon. These are men who committed treason against this  country in the defense of slavery.

This administration has continued to allow its own employees to post  white supremacist language on social media. A 25-year-old DOGE employee  wrote: ``You could not pay me to marry outside my ethnicity,'' and,  ``Normalize Indian hate.'' This came to light a year ago. He is still  employed by the administration.

The assistant chief counsel for ICE had a social media account:  ``America is a White nation,'' and ``'Migrants' are all criminals.'' He  is still employed.

Mr. Speaker, this is not okay. We must fight back, and I thank my  colleague for bringing attention to this matter.