Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691216/stock-trading-ban-for-members-of-congress


Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I am joined tonight by a bipartisan group  of Members who have come together to take to the floor tonight to call  for Members of Congress to be banned from trading stocks.

This is a reform that is long overdue. When people elect us to  office, they should be able to trust that their Members of Congress are  acting in the best interests of the country, not the best interests of  their own personal finances. When Members of Congress are  able to trade off of our position, it damages the integrity of this  institution and of our entire democracy.

As Members of Congress, we have access to all sorts of information  that the average member of the public does not: what might be put into  a bill or taken out of a bill, or what might be put into a budget or  taken out of a budget. This is material information, and Members of  Congress should not have the advantage of that insider information and  use that advantage to engage in stock trading.

Also, Members of Congress should not be conflicted when we have to  decide about what to vote for or against. Members of Congress should  not be in a position of thinking about what the impact on their stock  portfolio may be. We should be making decisions based just on what is  best for the American people.

The American people recognize that this is a reform that is long  overdue. Poll after poll has shown upwards of 90 percent of the  American people supporting a ban on Members trading stocks.

This is an issue that has been around for a while. Yet, in just the  last few weeks, we have achieved significant momentum. In the last 3  weeks, Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, the Democratic leader in the  House; President Trump; and today, the Speaker of the House,   Mike  Johnson, have all come out in favor of this reform. That is real  momentum that we should carry forward to the finish line.

Mr. Speaker, the Democratic leader is for it. The Republican leader  is for it. The President of the United States is for it. Let's get it  done.

I am joined tonight by a number of Members who represent, I think,  the full ideological diversity of the House of Representatives--both  sides, liberal, conservative, moderate, people who understand that the  American people expect better of this body.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to yield to some of my partners in this  effort, Members who have had the courage to stand up and say that we  need to enact this reform and ban Members of Congress from trading  stocks once and for all.

I am going to start by recognizing a Member from the Republican side  who I have had several great conversations with on this issue. He has  introduced a bill that would put a congressional stock trading ban into  effect.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman.

Mr. Speaker, I now recognize the gentleman from California (Mr.  Levin), who has been an outspoken champion for this reform for many  years.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, the stock trading bill that I am leading  was originally introduced by Abigail Spanberger, the Representative  from Virginia. I know if she is watching, she is smiling to see all of  us coming together and to see the progress that has  been made in the last few weeks in building support on this issue.

I give her a lot of credit for getting the ball rolling along with  the next gentleman who I am going to introduce, who has been a  fantastic partner and co-lead on the TRUST in Congress Act. I know that  we are going to get this done, in large part due to his leadership.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for being a great  partner on this and a great leader on this issue for many years.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I now recognize someone who is new to  Congress but who I know is passionate about this issue and I believe  campaigned on it, the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Bresnahan).

Mr. MAGAZINER.  Stansbury), a good friend and a leader on the Oversight  Committee who I know is committed to strong ethics reform.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I will take a second to thank all of my  colleagues on both sides who came out tonight. This is a busy week in  Congress. We have got reconciliation markups going on. Peoples'  schedules are busy, but the fact that we have so many Members from both  sides of the aisle who have the courage to stand up and say something  that may not be popular with everyone in this Chamber and have also  made it enough of a priority to come tonight is a great credit to each  of them. I thank them for their leadership.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I come from New England where we also  know something about winning all the time, but we will keep it in  Missouri for now.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentleman from  Pennsylvania (Mr. Deluzio).

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mrs. Kim very much for her  comments.

I yield to the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms. Omar).

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Minnesota  for her remarks. I now yield to the gentlewoman from Arizona (Ms.  Ansari), a new Member who has come in and has already been making a  mark. I know she is here with the intent of being a reformer, which is  what we need in Congress.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Ansari for her thoughts on  this matter. Before I yield to the next Member, let me just preface  this by saying, again, we have had a big couple of weeks in this fight  to ban Members of Congress from trading stocks.

Not only rank-and-file Members, but leaders have been coming out in  favor of this commonsense reform: Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries,  today Speaker Johnson, and President Trump.

I yield to the gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Neguse), a leader who has  been out in front on this issue for a long time. Our Assistant  Democratic Leader is a longtime cosponsor of the legislation that I  have reintroduced to ban Members of Congress from trading stocks.

Mr. MAGAZINER. Mr. Speaker, as we get ready to close here tonight, I  thank my colleagues once again for their leadership on this issue and  their courage because, as was said earlier, the opponents of this stock  trading ban don't speak out publicly, but they are here, and they are  watching and listening, and they are probably not very happy with us  tonight.

It takes people of courage to be willing to stand up and say: We here  in Congress have to change. We have to change the way Congress works so  that we work for the American people and not for ourselves. We need to  end this corruption. We need to end this insider dealing. We need to  end congressional stock trading.

What you have seen tonight is that this is a bipartisan issue. We  have had people speak tonight from across the political spectrum who  had the courage to stand up for what is right and to stand up for what  the American people not only want but are demanding of us.

Make no mistake, this insider trading is happening. It is happening.  I have the statistics right here. In 2024, the average Member of  Congress outperformed the market by nearly 3 percent. Now, I used to  work in the investment business, and let me tell you, there are paid  professionals who do not have that kind of outperformance.

The year before that, the average Member of Congress also  outperformed the market, and the year before that, and the year before  that. The last 4 years in a row, Members of Congress who traded stocks  outperformed the market.

That is not a coincidence. One time, one year might be luck, but two,  three, four years in a row is a clear pattern of corruption that needs  to end. Members should not be allowed to trade off of inside  information and should not be conflicted when deciding how to vote on a  bill or whether to support a policy.

The American people support this overwhelmingly, and it is time to  get it done. I am feeling hopeful. Earlier this year, it was hard to  get people to pay attention to this issue. It was hard to get media  coverage. It was hard to get Member support, but in the last month or  so, things have started to change. Leader Jeffries supports it; Speaker  Johnson supports it; President Trump supports it. People are starting  to notice. We are building momentum.

I will end tonight with gratitude for those who started this journey  before I ever got to Congress. Former Members, like Abigail Spanberger  and Ken Buck, have pushed for this for years. We are now building off  of their work. I have the TRUST in Congress Act that I have been  leading with Mr. Roy. We have got a few other Members who have  introduced their own versions. Those of us who have various versions of  a stock trading bill are now working together to develop a consensus  bill that we can all get behind and push together, and we are getting  close.

The excuses for inaction are running out fast. The excuses for  inaction are running out. The American people want this. It is the  right thing to do. Let's get it done.

Once again, I thank my colleagues from both sides who have had the  courage to stand up tonight in support of a stock trading ban. The time  is now. Let's get it done.