Congressional Award Program Reauthorization Act


Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share my strong support  for S. 284, the Congressional Award Program Reauthorization Act.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to co-lead it with my colleague,  Representative Hudson, whom you just heard from, and also Congressmen    Mike Levin and   John Rutherford.

This bill will reauthorize the Congressional Award program, which has  been responsible for printing and distributing awards to young  Americans across this country since 1979. This important program  expired nearly 18 months ago, and it is in desperate need of  reauthorization.

The Congressional Award is the highest award for youth legislated and  presented by the United States Congress  to young people. It is a noncompetitive program designed to acknowledge  young people for their initiative, achievement, and service.

Over 8.1 million hours of service have been contributed to  communities across the country as part of the Congressional Award  program. There are currently over 50,000 youth enrolled, and they  reside in every congressional district across this country. This award  encourages young Americans to do and to be their best, but the program  has lapsed. My office is receiving notes from people who are not  receiving their hard-earned awards.

Believe it or not, there are people who are proud that these are  congressional awards, and they are proud that we are encouraging them.

Take this note that I received from a constituent: ``I earned both  the Silver and the Gold Medal for the Congressional Award last year.  However, due to backlogs or shortages, I still haven't received the  actual awards. I would like to get them from you if that is the case.''

This young student, like thousands across the country, put in time  and effort, working toward their award, but, unfortunately, they have  been unable to receive it because the program has expired. Congress  needs to reauthorize it.

That is why this reauthorization is so important. It will ensure that  the young people who achieved their own challenging goals and who  helped their communities with their volunteer hours are recognized and  honored for their work.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my cosponsors again for their support and  Chairman Tim Walberg and Ranking Member  Bobby Scott for their  assistance and support of this important bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''