Future Uses of Technology Upholding Reliable and Enhanced Networks Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2449, the FUTURE Networks Act.  This bipartisan legislation is an important step to protect Americans  and our communication networks from threats posed by rapidly evolving  next-generation technologies. It also ensures that the standards used  to build technological advancements are designed from the start to be  safe and secure.

H.R. 2449 establishes a task force at the Federal Communications  Commission to study sixth-generation, or 6G, technologies to identify  potential supply chain and cybersecurity vulnerabilities. The task  force will include government, public interest advocates, academics,  and industry.

The United States leads the world in the innovation of secure and  resilient next-generation technologies, a position congressional  Democrats have fought hard to sustain. Among other things, House  Democrats have worked to increase the safety of our networks and supply  chains by examining the security of mobile networks and educate  consumers about cybersecurity vulnerabilities and risks. The FUTURE  Networks Act is yet another important step to support America's  leadership in a secure and reliable future.

By directing the FCC to engage in the exploration of 6G technology in  the early stages of development, the FUTURE Networks Act will enable  American values to be embedded within the global framework for this  technology and to ensure it will be available to all Americans.

I thank Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member  Matsui and Representatives Allen and Walberg for their bipartisan work  on this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2449, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mrs. DINGELL.  Matsui), the ranking member of the Communications and  Technology Subcommittee.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle to support H.R. 2449, and I yield back the balance of my time.