Great Lakes Fishery Research Reauthorization Act


Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of S. 2878.

The Great Lakes aren't just a part of Michigan and the heartland's  landscape. They are part of our economy, our identity, and our  heritage. They are more than 20 percent of the world's freshwater and  must be protected.

They provide drinking water to millions. They are home to a thriving  ecosystem for a wide breadth of species. They support countless jobs.  Our Great Lakes' fishing economy alone is worth more than $5 billion.

Unfortunately, there are many threats jeopardizing the future of the  Great Lakes and the region's way of life, including, as my colleagues  just heard described, the highly invasive sea lamprey, one of the most  disgusting things I have ever witnessed in my life.

The USGS Great Lakes Science Center is located in my district. It  meets the Nation's need for scientific information used to restore,  enhance, manage, and protect the freshwater fisheries and habitats of  the Great Lakes. The GLSC helps to protect the freshwater fisheries and  habitats that are invaluable economic and ecological assets for the  entire Great Lakes region.

We know the devastating effects that invasive species, pollution, and  extreme weather have had on the Great Lakes, and the research conducted  at this lab is essential to mitigating these threats and addressing  these issues.

The work of the GLSC and the Great Lakes Fishery Commission has  reduced the invasive sea lamprey populations in the Great Lakes by more  than 90 percent. Thanks to this program, populations of native fish,  including lake trout, whitefish, and walleye, have started to recover  and, with them, the economy of the region.

In November 2024, the Great Lakes Fishery Commission announced that  lake trout, a popular fish nearly exterminated by sea lampreys and  overfishing in the mid-1900s, has fully rebounded in Lake Superior. We  must continue to support the GLSC's work with the Fishery Commission  because the fight against invasive species is an ongoing battle.

The Great Lakes Fishery Research Reauthorization Act would  reauthorize funding for the Great Lakes Science Center for another 5  years, helping to ensure that they are able to continue conducting the  critical research that ensures future generations can enjoy the same  beauty, biodiversity, and economic opportunities for our Great Lakes  for many years.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this  legislation.