Mikaela Naylon Give Kids A Chance Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share my strong support for H.R. 1262,  the Mikaela Naylon Give Kids a Chance Act. I am proud to co-lead this  important, bipartisan legislation alongside Representatives   Michael  McCaul, Dr. Kim Schrier, and Gus Bilirakis.

This bill will accelerate pediatric cancer treatments and expand  access to lifesaving therapies for children battling rare diseases.

It is impossible to fully express the pain and the devastation that a  family experiences when their child is diagnosed with cancer.

One of the bill's advocates was one that we are all going to talk  about, Mikaela Naylon, a 16-year-old girl in Colorado who battled bone  cancer. She was a fierce fighter for this bill. She talked to all of  us, and we all sent videos to her. Unfortunately, she died on October  30.

Her mother told all of us, the sponsors and the cosponsors of this  bill, that we gave her reason to live, and she hopes that other  children will not die at her age and that this bill will help save  lives.

She supported and spoke on the importance of funding cancer research  to be able to help other kids like herself. She was a fighter her  entire life, and this lifesaving bill has been renamed in her honor.

There are too many others facing the fight, as Mikaela has, each  year. Nearly 16,000 children in just the United States are diagnosed  with cancer each year.

Mr. Speaker, 1 in every 285 children in the U.S. will be diagnosed  with cancer before they reach 20 years of age. In fact, children  comprise as many as half of those living with rare diseases. Yet, here  is the reality for those children: Treatment options for children  remain extremely limited compared to those for adults.

We know that children respond to cancer treatments differently, but  there is limited research on how these therapies impact them. We owe  our kids better than that, and their families deserve more.

We need this bill to offer more children a fighting chance. The Give  Kids a Chance Act would reauthorize the Food and Drug Administration  Priority Review Voucher Program to allow pharmaceutical companies to  expedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing  treatments for rare pediatric diseases.

Since 2011, 53 PRVs have been awarded for 35 different rare pediatric  diseases. Additionally, thousands of successful drug combination  therapies are now being studied and developed for adults but not for  kids; not for our children.

The Give Kids a Chance Act also authorizes the FDA to direct  companies to study a combination of cancer drugs and therapies in  pediatric trials, as well. Together, we can show these young children  and their families that they are not alone in this fight.

Mr. Speaker, I do thank the 313 cosponsors of this bill for their  support, along with Chairman Guthrie and Ranking Member Pallone for  their assistance and support for this important bill. It has taken too  long to get here today, but we are here. Let's show the kids in this  country that we care.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I am ready to close, but before doing so,  I thank my colleague, with whom I have been proud to co-chair the  caucus. We both know too many children who have died, but we know a lot  who we were able to get help for. We make a commitment to all the  families in the gallery, and those who we have not gotten to know, that  no matter where the gentleman is going, he and I are in this fight for  the rest of our lives. I thank him for all of his work. I am going to  miss my colleague.