Wabeno Economic Development Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3937, legislation introduced  by my colleague from Wisconsin (Mr. Tiffany).

This bill would authorize the conveyance of 14 acres of National  Forest System land to Tony's Wabeno Redi-Mix, LLC, a concrete company  based in northern Wisconsin.

The land is located in a national forest, and the Forest Service  determined that the land is suitable for conveyance to private  ownership. The costs associated with the conveyance will be covered by  the company, and the property will be conveyed at market value as  determined by Federal appraisal.

In addition to the conveyance, the bill would require the Secretary  of the Interior to conduct and publish a comprehensive review of the  Federal permitting process for the development of stone, sand, and  gravel on Federal lands.

This review will include descriptions of the Federal permitting  process for stone, sand, and gravel development. It will also include  an analysis of potential inefficiencies and recommendations for  administrative or legislative action, as well as a summary of economic  impacts associated with the current permitting process.

Although the Committee on Natural Resources has not held a hearing on  this bill in the 119th Congress, a hearing was held last year,  providing the Forest Service with an opportunity to comment on and  evaluate the proposal.

This is a critical component of the legislative process that ensures  decisions about the administration of our national forests and public  lands are made out in the open. These shared resources belong to all  Americans, and regular order ensures transparency, something which all  of our constituents deserve.

I know that as chair of the Federal Lands Subcommittee,  Representative Tiffany understands and embraces this sentiment. I thank  and congratulate him on continuing to move this bill forward in an open  and objective manner.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.