100th Anniversary of Fort Laramie, Wyoming


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694485/100th-anniversary-of-fort-laramie-wyoming


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise today to celebrate the centennial  of the town of Fort Laramie, WY.

The town of Fort Laramie has a remarkable history, serving as a  gateway to the American West. Located in southeastern Wyoming in Goshen  County, Fort Laramie sits at the convergence of the Laramie and North  Platte Rivers. This vibrant Western community is home to 215 residents.

The history of the area truly highlights Wyoming's Western heritage.  In 1834, William Sublette and Robert Campbell established Fort William,  a trading post for fur traders. As the settlement grew in popularity,  it expanded and attracted other travelers, including emigrants,  missionaries, and homesteaders.

From 1841 to 1890, the area served as an important military outpost.  Renamed Fort Laramie by the U.S. Army, the post played a pivotal role  during the Westward expansion. The fort served as an integral resource  for settlers, traders, and the U.S. military throughout the Western  Territories. As an important stop for people traveling to Oregon, Utah,  and California, it was the largest and best known military posts on the  Northern Plains, earning the nickname the ``Grand Old Post.''

In 1890, the Army decommissioned the fort and sold the land and  buildings to local residents. In its absence, the settled town of Fort  Laramie continued to grow. With homesteaders continuing to move into  the area and the addition of a railroad extension from Cheyenne, Fort  Laramie became a bustling community. It was officially incorporated in  1925.

While the town of Fort Laramie developed independently of the  military fort, the community recognized the historical significance of  the site and pushed for its preservation. The State of Wyoming bought  the land from local residents and donated it back to the Federal  Government in 1937.

Today, it is recognized as the Fort Laramie National Historic Site.  National Park Service employees and volunteers keep the site open year- round for visitors. Through displays and tours, they document and  explain the incredible history of people in the area from the years of  early American Indian inhabitants through the military era. One of its  largest events, the old-fashioned Fourth of July celebration, features  costumed re-enactments, kids' activities, and artillery demonstrations.

Fort Laramie continues to be a small town with big character. Friends  and neighbors pride themselves on caring for each other. Visitors are  greeted with Wyoming hospitality while experiencing Main Street's  authentic charm. The area also offers the opportunity to visit the  Confluence Trail, the historic U.S. Army iron bridge where the Laramie  and North Platte Rivers meet and Oregon Trail ruts.

Today, the Town of Fort Laramie is led by a distinguished group of  officials, including:

Ryon Brown, Mayor

Alicia Tanner, Council Member

Chris Sachanandani, Council Member

Jason Curtsinger, Council Member

Jacob Ellis, Council Member

Tristica Short, Clerk

Wai Logan, Treasurer

Pete Howes, Volunteer Fire Department Chief

Michael Doan, Emergency Management Coordinator

Neal Stone, Municipal Judge

Michael Staiger, Chief of Police

On August 30, 2025, the town's officials, residents, and visitors  will celebrate its 100th anniversary. The community festival will  include a 5K walk/run, children's games and activities, as well as  plenty of vendors in the heart of downtown. It is a fitting way to  honor the town's impressive history while celebrating its bright  future.

It is an honor to recognize this special anniversary. I applaud the  community leaders and volunteers who dedicated their time and energy to  celebrate Fort Laramie's rich Western heritage. What a terrific  opportunity to share their town and centennial celebration with others.  Congratulations to the town of Fort Laramie on its 100th anniversary.