50th Anniversary of the Wyoming Trauma and Emergency Medical Services Conference


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694419/50th-anniversary-of-the-wyoming-trauma-and-emergency-medical-services-conference


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise today to celebrate the 50th  anniversary of the Wyoming Trauma and Emergency Medical Services  Conference.

On August 21, 2025, the Wyoming Department of Health Office of  Emergency Medical Services will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the  Wyoming Trauma and Emergency Medical Services Conference. The  conference is a premier educational event for first responders  statewide.

In the 1970s, Wyoming lawmakers recognized the need to create a  statewide system to standardize emergency medical services. The Wyoming  EMS Office was established to provide critical training, support, and  continuing education for first responders. It is also responsible for  EMS licensing across the State.

The trauma conference came from humble beginnings. The first  conference was hosted in a basement room. Throughout the years, the  conference grew in size and popularity as a respected source of  education and information.

Over the years, the Office of Emergency Medical Services and the  Wyoming Emergency Medical Services Association have both hosted this  valuable conference. Spanning 3 full days, the event will highlight new  EMS practices and trauma care issues. With national and local speakers,  activities, and vendors, it will provide eight different continuing  education tracks for participants to pursue.

Aside from the incredible educational opportunities available, the  conference creates a sense of community. Each year, the conference  highlights the achievements of incredible healthcare professionals  around the State. Top first responders are honored by their peers with  awards for Lifetime Achievement, the Pete Vase Medic of the Year,  Physician Medical Director of the Year, EMS Course Coordinator of the  Year, along with the Bystander, Rising Star, and Achievement Awards.

The Wyoming Office of Emergency Medical Services is led by Manager  Aaron Koehler, MS, EMT. He is joined by a dedicated team including:

Jay Ostby, License Officer, Reporting and Data Analyst

Susan Neugebauer, EMS Program Supervisor and EMS for       Children Program

Elaine Volin, BSN, RN, Trauma Program Manager

Jesse Chavez, EMS Records and Data Specialist

Derrick Krause, Administrative Assistant

Amanda Witherington, Administrative Assistant

The Wyoming Trauma and EMS conference plays an integral role in the  excellence of Wyoming healthcare and emergency response. This  conference allows participants opportunities to meet with others, learn  new skills, and improve their abilities in the field.

Every attendee, including EMS clinicians, medical experts, first  responders, agency administrators, and educators, is truly selfless and  caring. They are drawn to making a tangible difference and have an  incredible passion for saving lives. I applaud each and every one of  them for their hard work and commitment.

It is an honor to celebrate this significant milestone. This  conference provides tremendous opportunities for our State's medical  professionals. Congratulations to the Office of Emergency Medical  Services on the 50th anniversary of the Wyoming Trauma and  Emergency Medical Services Conference.