Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I come to the floor today to address  America's aging roads and bridges. 

  Our highways are in need of repair all across the country. In some  places, we actually need to rebuild new roads. That is why I, along  with Senators Carper, Capito, and Cardin, have introduced America's  Infrastructure Act. 

  This bipartisan legislation is going to make a significant investment  in our roads, in our bridges, and in our tunnels. It will fund our  highways at historic levels. 

  These investments are critical, but just as critical is speeding up  government's approvals for important road projects. 

  Last Congress, the Environment and Public Works Committee, which I  chair, heard testimony about a highway project in my home State of  Wyoming. The project took a decade--a full 10 years--to get the  required permits--one after another after another--but then it only  took a couple of months to get the project done. It is a project that  is going to make our roads safer and more efficient, which was the  whole desired effect of this project. It was held up because of 10  years of waiting for Washington permits. A decade to permit, months to  build--any American with common sense knows that is absurd. America's  Transportation Infrastructure Act cuts through Washington redtape so  projects can get done faster, better, cheaper, and smarter. That is  key.  

  We used President Trump's One Federal Decision policy as a model. It  is a great plan, a great policy put forward by the President. Under the  policy, the President has set a goal for his administration of  completing environmental  reviews within 2 years. It is a goal I absolutely applaud. Our  legislation will codify key elements of that policy into law. 

  The bill will streamline duplicative requirements by many different  Federal agencies on the same project. The permitting process will be  simplified and will occur faster. 

  Our bill also gives States increased flexibility--something States  want. So Federal approvals can get moving and the project construction  can get started sooner. It reduces the amount of paperwork needed from  States to complete the projects. It is unacceptable that the Federal  Government would hold up State projects and put drivers at risk.  Washington should never prioritize paperwork, which is what Washington  tends to do--prioritize paperwork over people's safety. 

  America's Transportation Infrastructure Act cuts redtape. It makes  safety a top priority. 

  Our legislation is bipartisan, passing the Environment and Public  Works Committee unanimously, 21 to 0. 

  President Trump called on Congress to pass the bill. He did it during  his State of the Union Address last month. 

  This legislation is a win for the entire country. The time is now to  pass America's Transportation Infrastructure Act so we can reduce the  punishing and costly regulations and then do the important work of  improving highway projects so that they can get built. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I come to the floor tonight to briefly  discuss a message from the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Chief  Justice John Roberts. 

  As you know, Chief Justice Roberts recently sat in the very chair,  Madam President, in which you are sitting right now as he ably oversaw  the impeachment trial. 

  In a very rare admonition, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court  this afternoon released a statement in response to statements made by  the minority leader of the U.S. Senate, Chuck Schumer. 

  The Senator, speaking outside the Court, across the street from this  building, was at a protest while arguments were being heard inside the  Court, and the comments made by Senator Schumer certainly appeared to  threaten members of the Supreme Court. 

  The video clip shows Senator Schumer saying this. He said:  

       I want to tell you, Gorsuch. I want to tell you, Kavanaugh.  

  These are members of the Supreme Court, confirmed by the Senate. He  said:  

       I want to tell you. . . . You have released the whirlwind,       and you will pay the price.  

  ``You will pay the price.'' 

  Well, it can't be a political price because Justices serve for life.  Either they die in office or they can resign, step down. There is no  political price to be paid. 

  To me, this sounds like he is talking about a physical price,  violence.  

  Now, Schumer told abortion rights advocates who were outside the  Court these very things:  

       I [will] tell you, Gorsuch. I [will] tell you, Kavanaugh.       You have released a whirlwind, and you will pay the price.  

  He goes on to say:  

       You won't know what hit you. . . .  

  You, members of the Supreme Court. He, the minority leader of the  U.S. Senate, saying:  

       You won't know what hit you if you go forward with these       awful decisions.  

  I believe these statements are outrageous; they are uncalled for;  they are out of bounds; and on their face, they appear to invite  violence against members of the U.S. Supreme Court. 

  Let me just read to you what the Chief Justice said today in his  release. Chief Justice Roberts responded:  

       This morning, Sen. Schumer spoke at a rally in front of the       Supreme Court while a case was being argued inside.  

  He goes on to say:  

       Sen. Schumer referred to two Members of the Court by name       and said he wanted to tell them that ``you have released the       whirlwind! And you will pay the price! You won't know what       hit you if you go forward with these awful decisions.''  

  The Chief Justice continued:  

       Justices know that criticism comes with the territory, but       threatening statements of this sort from the highest levels       of government are not only inappropriate, they are dangerous.  

  He concludes by saying:  

       All Members of the Court will continue to do their job,       without fear or favor, from whatever quarter.  

  That is the statement of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court  referring to the actions by the minority leader, the Senator from New  York, Chuck Schumer. 

  We cannot tolerate political violence or threats of harassment. We as  a body, as a community, as a country should be looking to elevate our  debates rather than lower them, which is what, in my opinion, the  minority leader did today. 

  I hope the minority leader will think twice about comments like these  in the future. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT