Australian Wildfires


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I come to the floor today to honor the  alliance we have between America and Australia. Specifically, I want to  pay tribute to the partnership we have with regard to firefighting.  America's century-old friendship with Australia has safeguarded two  great nations. 

  July of 2018 marked the 100th anniversary of our historic victory in  the pivotal Battle of Hamel during World War I. The Australia, New  Zealand, United States Security Treaty came together to cement this  military alliance. Since that treaty was signed in 1951, we have always  supported each other in times of crisis. It is this enduring spirit of  mutual concern and cooperation and commitment that we celebrate today. 

  Senator Ben Cardin of Maryland and I have put together a bipartisan  resolution paying tribute to our firefighting alliance. 

  In recent years, the United States and Australia have suffered some  of the hottest, driest weather on record. As a result, we have seen  longer, fiercer wildfire seasons. For over 15 years, the two nations  have come together to battle some of the most damaging and deadly  fires. In 2018, more than 100 Australians helped the United States  combat wildfires ravaging the West Coast. 

  For our part, U.S. agencies have been sending American firefighters  to help the people of Australia. These agencies include the Bureau of  Land Management, the Forest Service, the National Park Service, the  Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Fish and Wildlife Service. 

  Most recently, 362 firefighters helped battle this season's brutal  Australian brush fires. These brush fires burned over 30 million acres  before the last fires were put out just this month. 

  Tragically, three former American servicemembers died in a plane  crash fighting the wildfires in Australia. One of these heroes, Ian  McBeth of Montana, was actually a member of the Wyoming National Guard.  Also killed were firefighters Paul Hudson of Arizona and Rick DeMorgan  of Florida. 

  This resolution honors their ultimate sacrifice. It also recognizes  the sacrifices of all of the courageous American and Australian  firefighters. 

  I especially want to thank the 15 firefighters from my home State of  Wyoming who assisted Australia: Travis Braten, Anna Cressler, Peter  Freire, Kyle Miller, Chris Rankin, Eldred Slagowski, Traci Weaver,  Timothy Haas, Richard Howe, Frank Keeler, Robert McConchie, Shane  McCormick, Heath Morgan, Rance Neighbors, and Jonathan Ziegler. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, the fact is that America's  firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep people safe.  They do it here at home, and they do it when they go abroad. 

  This resolution applauds the brave men and women who responded to the  Australian people in their hour of need. It also promotes the sharing  of critical resources, research, and best practices. This will help us  prevent and suppress future fires. 

  Be assured that the American-Australian firefighting alliance will  continue to protect us in the time of crisis. Our bipartisan resolution  celebrates this enduring partnership. 

  Thank you. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT