Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I come to the floor today as the  Senate returns to help the country recover from coronavirus. This  global pandemic is hopefully a once-in-a-lifetime, once-in-a-century  shock, but it has been an earthquake that continues to shake the world  to its core. Tragically, we have lost tens of thousands of Americans to  the disease, and our hearts and prayers go out to each of those  impacted and all of their loved ones. 

  More than 30 million Americans have lost their jobs in the last 6  weeks due to the virus and the State lockdowns that have been put in  place as a result of the virus. People want and need to get back to  work as soon as possible. It is vital we reopen America smartly and  safely and we do it as soon as we can. 

  Many States are starting to open. Wyoming did this past Friday. We  must all be prepared and alert for any likely aftershocks that will  occur from the virus. 

  The economy could not reopen had it not been for the major medical  progress we have been experiencing. Our heroic nurses, doctors, and  others on the frontlines have saved many lives. Testing in the United  States has been dramatically expanded, and we are producing promising  treatments. The American people deserve a lot of credit for their  tremendous sacrifices to contain the spread of the virus. Everyone in  my home State of Wyoming is suffering from the economic fallout, as are  Americans all across the country. The best way to help these people is  to push the start button on the economy. 

  The Senate is in session and will consider taking targeted temporary  and bipartisan relief measures. We are now assessing the relief money  that has already been spent. We know what has worked--the Paycheck  Protection Program funds that go to mom-and-pop organizations that are  part of the CARES Act has saved 30 million jobs. Small business is the  backbone of our economy, the engine of job creation. In Wyoming, the  program has been very successful and very popular. Before the pandemic,  the United States had record job growth and record low unemployment.  Our economy will bounce back, there is no question in my mind. 

  As we look to the future, in terms of recovery legislation, what we  need to do is to prevent a second epidemic. I am very concerned that  the second epidemic will be that of frivolous coronavirus lawsuits. Any  future legislation must focus on the virus and must include reasonable  liability protections for the hard-hit healthcare workers and for  American employers. 

  Opportunistic lawyers are already advertising, and they are targeting  the healthcare workers and small businesses that we have assisted  during the crisis. Ironically, the relief money could end up lining the  pockets of greedy trial lawyers. 

  As businesses bravely begin to reopen, class action lawsuits are  being planned nationwide. Ambulance chasers are running recruitment ads  right now that read ``receive a free coronavirus lawsuit review.'' They  go on to say: Call if you or a loved one has been diagnosed with COVID- 19 and you believe another party's negligence caused the exposure. 

  Nursing homes appear to be the prime target. One lawyer who described  himself as a ``coronavirus exposure lawyer'' encouraged action for  nursing home negligence. That is why nurses, doctors, and hospitals are  counting on Congress to pass commonsense liability reform. 

  Yet Speaker Pelosi and Senator Schumer say they oppose this critical  liability protection. Instead, Democrats are demanding more aid for  States and local governments. They want American taxpayers to bail out  States with long histories of financial mismanagement. That is already  on top of the $150 billion that the States have just received within  the last 2 weeks. Nancy Pelosi now wants a lot, lot more. 

  We put the full force of the American Government in this fight  against the coronavirus. We cannot afford to allow an avalanche of  abusive lawsuits to crush our awakening economy. Republicans will  insist on a legal shield for essential workers and for businesses  before spending another dime. It is our job to do everything that we  can to get people back to work and back to work safely. 

  The physical and economic health of our country is at stake today. We  are continuing to deliver financial support plus medical help to all  people across the country. One thing is clear: trial lawyers should not  profit from our Nation's pain. Together, America will come back and  Americans will come back and it will be stronger and better than ever. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT