Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I come to the floor today as a Senator  as well as a physician. I want to do this to reassure the American  people that we are doing everything possible to combat and contain the  coronavirus. According to Johns Hopkins University, a well-known  medical institution, we here in the United States are the most prepared  Nation on the face of the Earth to protect ourselves in terms of  preparation for an infectious disease like the coronavirus. 

  Nevertheless, this virus is a global concern and is a problem with  pandemic potential. We know the outbreak started in China. It goes  without saying that we are deeply saddened by the loss of life there,  as well as here and around the world. We are concerned about those  currently suffering from the virus. Our focus continues to be on  protecting the health and the well-being and the safety of the American  people. That is where we need to focus. 

  Notably, President Trump's early travel restrictions on China have  actually helped slow the spread of the virus. He has since expanded  these restrictions. The President, I believe, has acted swiftly,  boldly, and decisively to contain the virus and to keep Americans safe.  Still, this country is not a hermetically sealed bubble. It will never  be--can't be. We are likely to see more cases here in the days and  weeks ahead.  

  We all must be prepared, and we must stay vigilant. Be assured, the  Trump administration is fully engaged in responding to this virus. The  United States has the best public health system in the world, and we  have a plan in place to combat the coronavirus. Our public health  experts are working to identify and isolate the virus, as well as to  produce a vaccine. 

  The fastest you can ever produce a vaccine is several years. We seem  to be moving faster than that with regard to coronavirus. We have seen  development, but even though it is moving faster than ever, it will  still take a minimum of a year and 6 months to have a vaccine available  and produced at a level that could actually impact the population of  the country. Since it is a new virus, a new vaccine needs to be  developed. The Vice President said over the weekend that we expect to  have a vaccine available sometime next year, and I agree. 

  Meanwhile, our strategy for testing, for isolation, and for  quarantines right now is helping to lower the risks. Years ago, we  created an infectious disease rapid response team. The goal was to make  sure that we were ready if the time would come, and the time has now  come. Test kits are becoming more widely available for States and  communities. We heard today over the noon hour that they are expecting  to have enough test kits available around the country so that, over the  next week, we can test a million people. We are going to continue to  use every available tool we can in this fight. 

  The White House has created a Coronavirus Task Force led by Vice  President Pence. The effort is headed by top officials at the Centers  for Disease Control and the National Institutes of Health. I had a  chance to visit with a number of them today, specifically the  infectious disease group through the NIH. We have had a number of  briefings through the Centers for Disease Control. We recently had a  briefing by Dr. Anne Schuchat, the head of the Centers for Disease  Control in the area helping with our efforts on coronavirus. As she has  said, ``Our aggressive containment strategy here in the United States  has been working and is responsible for the low level of cases that we  have so far.'' Officials at the CDC and the National Institutes of  Health are coordinating with other Federal officials, and they tend to  be working around the clock. 

  The administration is making sure that State and local officials have  all of the resources they need to respond. Dr. Schuchat said that our  healthcare system, our businesses, our communities, and our schools all  have action plans. 

  Senators have had a number of briefings from officials at the Centers  for Disease Control and the National Institutes of Health. They are  working on ways to identify the virus and test for the virus and ways  to treat people who are infected by the virus. They are working on  quarantines and on a vaccine. That is what they should be doing. This  is a massive, nationwide undertaking. 

  At every meeting--and I have been going to meetings on this since it  was first noted around the beginning of the year. We know about the  issue in China. People now know about the doctor who tried to get the  word out to the world--who was the first to notice this specific new  virus, the coronavirus. He was reprimanded by the Chinese for trying to  do what he learned to do as a doctor, which was to share medical  knowledge and information to try to get ahead of a disease that is  progressing. He was reprimanded by the Chinese Government, and he has  subsequently died of the disease. 

  There are a number of us--and it is bipartisan--who would go as  Senators to briefings. We have been going to briefings since the time  of the impeachment. We would have impeachment in the afternoon and  discussions about coronavirus in the morning. There has been a focus on  this probably longer than most members around the country had been  focused on it. At every meeting, we would ask the members of the  Centers for Disease Control and National Institutes of Health: Do you  have the funds you need for the things you need to do right now? At all  of those meetings, they said: Yes, we have all we need. 

  Now things have changed. They say they need additional funds, and  they are right. We agree they need more funds for testing, treatment,  and vaccine development. It is appropriate that Congress appropriate  that money. Congress must act quickly and decisively in passing a  bipartisan emergency funding bill. Both parties agree this effort has  to be fully funded. We know the initial numbers discussed were only a  starting point. We don't know what the total number is going to be, but  the team is going to continue to have all the funds they need to deal  with this disease. 

  I find it very disturbing to see Democrats, especially those running  for President, politicizing the issue. This is a headline in  yesterday's New York Times: ``Democrats Hit Trump On Virus.'' They are  talking about the Presidential candidates running for President,  attacking President Trump on the virus. 

  The coronavirus is a deadly disease. It is not a political tool to  try to tar and feather President Trump. We need to be working on this  together. This should not be about Democratic candidates trying to  defeat President Trump but about defeating the coronavirus. That is  what we ought to be focusing on. 

  As a doctor, my focus is on the health of the American people. My  advice for those who may be watching is the same commonsense advice you  would take if you were saying ``I want to avoid getting the flu during  flu season,'' and it is flu season as well. Cover your mouth when you  cough. Wash your hands frequently. If you are sick, stay home. Those  are the kinds of commonsense things people can do at home, not just to  prevent the flu but also to protect themselves against the coronavirus. 

  There is no reason for lots of anxiety or for panic. As a nation, we  are in the right position to deal with the challenge we face. This  administration will continue to do everything in its power to keep  America and Americans safe. Now it is time for Congress to do its  part--to pass the emergency legislation and get it to the President's  desk. 

  Thankfully, we are the most prepared Nation to face this challenge.  We have harnessed all of the American energy and ingenuity and  expertise we need for this fight. The key is for all of us to remain  engaged and to remain vigilant. As a doctor, I am confident that we  will be able to succeed together. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT