Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, during the State of the Union, President  Trump called on Congress to rebuild America's infrastructure. He  specifically asked Congress to pass America's Transportation  Infrastructure Act ``to invest in new roads, bridges, and tunnels all  across our land.'' The Senate is ready to answer President Trump's  call. 

  America's roads and bridges are important to every State, every  community, and every Tribe in the Nation. The quality of our roads  affects everyone. Our economy is built on a well-functioning road  system that allows products from rural areas--like Utah, like Wyoming-- to get to our population centers. Interstates like I-80, in my home  State of Wyoming, are critical arteries of commerce. America's roads  create American jobs, move American products, and they fuel America's  economy. 

  In 2015, the U.S. transportation system moved a daily average of  roughly 49 million tons of freight. That is an average of $53 billion  worth of freight every single day. The quality of our roads has to keep  pace. We must maintain and upgrade and, where necessary, build  America's highway infrastructure. 

  Last July, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which I  chair, unanimously passed America's Transportation Infrastructure Act.  The vote was 21 to 0. I introduced this bipartisan bill with fellow  leaders on the committee--Ranking Member Carper, Senator Capito, and  Senator Cardin. This legislation will make a historic investment in our  roads. 

  America's Transportation Infrastructure Act authorizes $287 billion  over 5 years from the highway trust fund. That is the largest  investment in  America's roads included in any highway bill ever passed by Congress.  Our bill is going to help the entire country. Senators on our committee  represent rural areas like Wyoming, Iowa, and Alaska and urban areas  like New York, Chicago, and Baltimore. America's Transportation  Infrastructure Act is a win for them all. 

  Over 90 percent of the money in our legislation will go to States  through highway formula funding. Formula funding gives each State the  flexibility to address its specific surface transportation needs. The  formula-based approach has been very successful in the past. It  effectively and efficiently delivers infrastructure money to States,  and they can make decisions as to which projects to pursue. America's  Transportation Infrastructure Act maintains this important approach so  States get the funds they need. 

  America's Transportation Infrastructure Act also expands successful  Federal loan leveraging programs. A single taxpayer dollar in one of  these Federal loan programs can leverage 40 times that much in actual  infrastructure spending. 

  Between new authorizations, leveraging programs, State-match  requirements, and input from other communities, our bill's total impact  on infrastructure will be nearly half a trillion dollars. 

  America's Transportation Infrastructure Act is momentous, and it must  be responsibly paid for. When our committee passed the legislation, it  included a commitment that the bill should be paid for. The Environment  and Public Works Committee doesn't have jurisdiction over revenues for  the highway bill. That is why I am working closely with Senate Finance  Committee chairman Chuck Grassley to make sure this legislation is paid  for. It is no silver bullet. We all need to find multiple sources of  revenue. 

  One thing the Democrats and Republicans agree on is that the people  who use the roads should contribute to maintaining them. This must  include drivers of electric vehicles. Right now, the drivers of  electric vehicles contribute nothing to the highway trust fund. If  these electric vehicles were contributing at a rate comparable to  drivers in my home State of Wyoming, it would generate billions of  dollars for road maintenance over the next decade. 

  Electric vehicle fees alone won't pay for this legislation, but it is  an important start. I am going to continue to work with Chairman  Grassley to find responsible ways to fund the legislation. 

  It is time to make a historic investment in America's roads and  bridges. America's Transportation Infrastructure Act will grow our  economy, improve the safety of our roads, and enhance the quality of  life for the American people. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT