Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, Americans have come together in this  moment. We have come together to defeat the coronavirus. We have come  together to ramp up testing, to ramp up healthcare, and to reopen our  communities and our country. 

  The coronavirus has brought out the best in so many ways in America  and in the American people. From our frontline healthcare workers  taking care of patients to scientists and researchers working on  testing, on treatment, and on vaccines, to those in public service  keeping essential parts of the government running day in and day out,  to those working on supply chains to deliver goods 24 hours a day, and  to those who are staying at home to keep themselves and keep others  safe, Americans are in this together. 

  It is interesting because all we are seeing from the other side of  the political aisle is more of the same old politics and name-calling.  President  Obama is taking cheap shots at President Trump; Speaker Pelosi just put  out a $3 trillion bill that reads like the Democratic Party platform;  and Joe Biden is holed up and hiding in his basement. Is this the best  the Democrats can offer? Is this the best they can do? Biden, Obama,  and Pelosi should be embarrassed. This is not leadership. 

  Republican policies in the CARES Act that we passed actually have had  significant results--real results--with the Paycheck Protection Program  making sure 50 million Americans are still getting their paychecks,  economic impact payments, which are reaching 130 million families.  These are policies that are going to build a bridge for the country to  get to the other side of the devastation done by the virus, and, still,  more money and resources from the CARES Act are slated to go out to  States, to hospitals, and to small businesses all across America. 

  All together, between Congress and the Federal Reserve, we have  injected close to $9 trillion into the economy in just a couple of  months. All of this money is nowhere close to having even been spent.  In fact, it is only because of the steps we have taken already--the  efforts of Governors across the country, the work of this  administration--that the House Democrats have found themselves in a  position, as they were last Friday, of wasting time and energy on a  fantasy bill. 

  Republicans now have two jobs. The first is to get the country back  on track, and the second is to not allow the Democrats to try to  exploit the crisis that is upon this country for their own political  gains. 

  Democrats are pushing their agenda as a cure-all for the virus. Let  me be clear. It is not. It is simply a solution for their electoral  problems. 

  Yesterday, the New York Times published a front page article. Online  it was called ``Seeking: Big Democratic Ideas That Make Everything  Better.'' In the printed copy, they changed the headline to say:  ``Biden Pursues Ideas to Match Scale of Crisis,'' ``Left Senses an  Opening for a Bolder Agenda.'' The article goes step by step on how the  pandemic is being used by the Democrats to make sweeping changes in  their policy platforms in their effort to remake America, basically  consistent with their dangerous Democratic socialist views. 

  They are planning, according to this, to get rid of their so-called  center-left policies that they had additionally and initially  envisioned. They are now courting what they call leftwing allies. They  are adopting the ideas of single-payer healthcare--one size fits all  healthcare, with the government making decisions for you rather than  you or your doctor making decisions for you. They are adopting ideas  through labor unions, liberal think tanks, progressive institutions.  They have taken over the Democratic Party, and they are all beholden to  Nancy Pelosi. 

  Democrats are using the coronavirus so that their favorite groups get  a giveaway. That is what it reads when you take a look at that $3  trillion bill that Nancy Pelosi dragged across the floor of the House  last Friday night with Members of her party kicking and screaming about  voting for it. That is what we see. 

  Some were kicking and screaming because the $3 trillion bill that  started as a $1.5 trillion bill didn't get big enough, didn't include  enough of their far left socialist agenda. This is not a solution for  the crisis facing America. It is not a solution for the crisis that we  are facing with coronavirus. It is not a solution that we are facing  with a crisis of a shut-down economy, shut down by the government in an  effort to protect ourselves from the disease. Oh, no. What we see here  is a partisan political playbook. It is the Democrats' agenda for the  2020 election. 

  The efforts to get the coronavirus behind us and get our communities  and our country open must be targeted, must be temporary, and must be  tailored to the needs of our communities at this critical time in our  Nation's history. Ultimately, it is time for America to open swiftly  and smartly and safely. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT