Foreign Policy


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I come to the floor today following  the U.S. airstrike in Iraq, the airstrike that killed Iranian's  terrorist mastermind. 

  I fully support President Trump's decision. As Commander in Chief, I  believe he had an obligation to do what he did to act when American  lives were at stake. With the death of Iran's General Soleimani, the  American people and people around the world are much safer. 

  This general was an emboldened, blood-thirsty terrorist. He was a  killer. He has the blood of countless people around the world on his  hands. 

  In the last 2 months, we have seen 11 attacks--11 attacks--on U.S.  forces and bases, including the killing of an American citizen. 

  He became bolder and more aggressive in both his actions and his  ambitions, and he was stepping up his attacks on Americans. In fact,  General Soleimani was at war with the United States his entire career,  and it was a military career. He was the commander of Iran's terrorist  network. 

  In recent months, we watched as he personally directed brazen attacks  on our Embassy and our personnel in Iraq. We knew that more attacks  were coming, so the United States took action. 

  Soleimani's death makes America safer in the long run. Taking out  this war criminal will help us avoid war in the future. 

  Let me be clear: I don't want war with Iran. The United States does  not want war with Iran, but we know that appeasement does not work. The  Obama administration's strategy of wishful thinking failed. 

  Soleimani's terrorist network was made more powerful by U.S. money.  The Obama administration gave billions and billions of U.S. dollars as  part of that Iran nuclear deal. What did they do with the money? They  used the money to support terrorists around the world. Without a doubt,  appeasement brought only failure. It made Iran stronger, and it hurt  the United States and our allies. 

  We know that the winning strategy is peace through strength. We knew  it through Ronald Reagan, and we know it today. Already, U.S. sanctions  on Iran have been crushing and crippling. We must continue President  Trump's maximum-pressure campaign. Now Iran knows the United States  means what it says. We are prepared for retaliations, should they come. 

  This past weekend, Joe Biden actually said that Iran is in the  driver's seat. Iran is not in the driver's seat; Iran is in the center  of the bull's-eye. 

  U.S. forces will respond. We will respond to any future attacks on  Americans or Americans' safety, and we will do it swiftly and with a  punishing response. 

  It will be a grave mistake for Iran to further escalate tensions.  Instead, what Iran ought to do is dial down its aggressive nature and  posture. 

  The facts are these: General Soleimani was a blood-thirty terrorist.  He had the blood of innocent civilians on his hands, and he would have  killed many more if given the chance. 

  This general spent his entire career at war with the United States.  He was responsible for the deaths of American soldiers--hundreds of  deaths with IEDs--and for the maiming of American soldiers with  roadside bombs. Thousands of Americans have been permanently disabled  because of him. 

  Thankfully, the general's 20-year reign of terror has now ended, and  there is broad condemnation all around the world over the mass  destruction and the death that he caused. It is now time for Iran to  take a step back, away from nuclear weapons, away from terrorism, away  from aggressions, and to come to the table. It is time for them to  discuss peace. 

  Thank you. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT