Government Funding


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696537/government-funding


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, 1 year ago today, the American people  rejected high prices; they rejected open borders; they rejected the  weakness of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. One year ago today, the  American people voted to get America back on track, and they did so by  voting for a unified Republican government.

Republicans won a historic victory. President Trump won every single  battleground State in America. He won the popular vote. He moved over  close to 3,000 counties to the right. That is 89 percent of the  counties in the United States. Senate Republicans won a 53-seat  majority, and House Republicans maintained the majority as well.

Americans gave us a mandate to secure the border, to rebuild the  economy, to unleash American energy, and to restore America's strength.

Here we are 1 year later, and America is back on track. The results  are undeniable. For the first time in years, America's borders are  secure. For the last 5 months, absolutely zero illegal immigrants have  been released into our Nation. Gone are the days under Joe Biden when  10,000 illegal immigrants poured into our country each and every day.  When Joe Biden was President, over 10 million illegal immigrants  flooded into our Nation. Illegal immigrants were incentivized to come  here with the promise of free healthcare, with the promise of free  airplane tickets, with the promise of free hotel rooms and free food  and free meals and free cell phones.

That era is over. President Trump is successfully removing illegal  immigrant criminals from our Nation, taking them away from communities  all across the country. Republicans in Congress are finishing the wall,  hiring more border agents, and investing in Immigration and Customs  Enforcement. The drug cartels are clearly on notice: The border is  closed, and America is once again protecting our citizens.

Today, our communities are safer, and the economic turnaround has  been equally dramatic. America's energy dominance is back. Gas prices  have dropped to the lowest point in 4 years. AAA reports prices are  expected to continue to fall and perhaps stay low over the busy  Thanksgiving period that is upcoming. Inflation has cooled. Things are  more affordable. Remember, under Joe Biden, prices soared by more than  21 percent. Under President Trump, private sector real wages are up  over $1,100 a year. The economy grew 3.8 percent in the second quarter  of this year. We are seeing strong economic growth, and more strong  economic growth is expected. The Atlanta Federal Reserve predicts  third-quarter growth could be 4 percent--even greater economic growth.

You might ask yourself, what is at the heart of this economic  comeback? Well, let me tell you. The working family tax cuts, which  passed the Senate, passed the House, and were signed into law by the  President--that is at the heart of our economic comeback.

This is the most pro-worker, pro-family tax relief in years. In  Wyoming alone, families could save $2,400 this year because of the tax  cuts. Waiters, barbers, and bartenders keep $1,300 more by having to  pay no tax on tips. In my home State and in the Presiding Officer's,  nurses, firefighters, and police officers can keep $1,400 more by  having to pay no tax on overtime. New parents get a $1,000 Trump  account for every newborn child, to invest in their future, and parents  get a bigger child tax credit: $2,200 more per child. Seniors are going  to keep more as well. There is a new $6,000 deduction on Social  Security income. Clearly, the Presiding Officer has heard it, and I  have heard it at home as well: Farmers, ranchers, and small business  owners are getting relief from the much-dreaded death tax. That is what  it means to stand with working Americans.

Let's be clear. If the Democrats had had it their way, families would  be  paying much more in taxes--a lot more. Every single Democrat voted for  the largest tax increase in American history. Every single Democrat  voted for a $4 trillion tax increase. Had Democrats succeeded,  families, seniors, and small businesses would have been financially  crushed.

Every Democrat voted for the government to take more of people's  hard-earned money. Republicans said people should keep their hard- earned money. Republicans voted for Americans to keep what they earned.  That is the difference between Republicans and Democrats.

One year ago, American voters rejected a weak America and also  rejected a dangerous world. Today, we see the resurgence of American  strength. We are defending our interests and deterring our enemies  around the world. Military recruitment has surged to its highest level  in 15 years. Morale is high. Deterrence is back.

President Trump successfully crippled Iran's nuclear program. He  strengthened the success of the Abraham Accords. He secured the release  of the hostages in Gaza. He ended wars around the world not once, not  twice, but eight times. President Trump is the President of peace, and  he is achieving this peace through American strength and leadership.

These are the policies that Americans want, need, and voted for when  they elected President Trump President of the United States once again.

Regrettably, Senate Democrats still can't bring themselves to support  the success. They voted against securing the border, against lowering  taxes, against strengthening Medicaid, and against everything that  helps working families.

Here in the Senate, for months, they delayed hundreds of routine and  bipartisan nominees. It was an unprecedented blockade.

Now Democrats have set a new, shameful record. Today, they broke the  record for the longest government shutdown in American history. Let me  repeat that. Today, the Democrats have broken the record for the  longest shutdown in American history.

During the 36 days of the Schumer shutdown, Democrats have voted  against reopening the government 14 times. That is 14 votes against  paying our troops, 14 votes against paying our Federal workers, 14  votes against paying our air traffic controllers, 14 times against  Border Patrol agents, and 14 times against paying our TSA agents.

The Democratic Party has been hijacked by socialists, and now they  are holding the American people hostage. Why? Well, it is because the  Democrats have become radical and extreme. Gallup pollsters tell us  that only one in three Democrats is proud to be an American. Can you  imagine that. Only one in three registered Democrats is proud to be an  American. That is half the number it was last year.

The party of J.F.K. is gone, and it is now the party of AOC.  Democrats are now the party of socialism and censorship, of weakness  and wokeness. They even brag about it, as we saw last night in New  York.

Yesterday, in New York City, they elected as mayor a socialist who  wants to defund the police, abolish prisons, and give illegal  immigrants free healthcare. That is who the Democrats have chosen as  the mayor of New York City. That is the Democrats' vision of America's  future. It is a dangerous vision. It is a destructive vision.

One year ago, Americans chose a better path. They chose safety,  prosperity, and common sense. As a result, today, America is moving in  the right direction, and we are going to continue to fight to get  America back on track.