Healthcare


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697878/healthcare


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I just heard the minority leader come to  the floor and talk about our Republican plan for healthcare, and he  called it ``insulting.''

What is insulting is that the minority leader and the Democrats want  to send $83 billion of taxpayer money directly from the Treasury of the  United States to health insurance corporations that continue to get  rich off of ObamaCare. That is insulting to the American people.

That is a program that is riddled--riddled--with fraud. That is what  they want, these COVID bonus programs put forth by Joe Biden. They want  to just--3 more years, more direct checks to insurance companies,  taxpayer money with no accountability.

So how bad are these programs? Well, let's just take a look at the  headlines.

Monday's Wall Street Journal: ``ObamaCare Is a Mecca for Fraud.''

The Democrats must be in favor of all this fraud because that is what  they want to do. They want to continue it for 83 billion more dollars.

What about the Washington Post? This is yesterday's Washington Post:  ``Obamacare subsidies make it too easy to scam the system.''

That is what the Democrats appear to be wanting to do, continuing to  put money--$83 billion--into a system that even the Washington Post  said is easy to scam.

Is that what the American people want? That is insulting to the  American people.

So tomorrow the Democrats are going to come here, and they are going  to line up, one after another, and vote to send another $83 billion  directly from the Federal Treasury of the United States to insurance  companies--$83 billion to a program that is designed to be defrauded.

So how bad is the fraud?

Well, the Government Accountability Office tested whether the  ObamaCare system would catch fraud.

Good for them.

So they made up and submitted 24 fake applications for ObamaCare.  Yes. That is right--fake applications, fake information, make it up,  make all the information up, and 23 of the 24 of the ObamaCare  applications were approved. They were accepted and qualified to receive  the subsidies.

They were fake. That is why even the Washington Post says that fraud  is on the way.

They all received taxpayer-funded healthcare subsidies paid by the  Federal Government. It is insulting to taxpayers that that is the best  the Democrats can do, that that is what the Democrats offer.

Eighteen of the twenty-four fake enrollees--this is even worse--were  still receiving taxpayer-funded subsidies as recently as September.

Now, remember, September--the month of September, end of September-- that is when the Democrats shut down the government of the United  States. Why? Because of these COVID bonus payments from the Biden  administration.

That is insulting.

Those subsidies were paid directly from the government to the  insurance companies. The insurance companies, just for those 18 of the  24, received over $100,000 for these 18 fake applications--right from  the government, not to the people, not so the people can see, did this  go to a real person. No. Government. Insurance company. Insurance  companies get rich. Democrats love it. Nobody gets to see what is going  on, and premiums have gone up 221 percent since ObamaCare passed.

And remember Obama saying your premiums would go down by $2,500 if  you just passed his law?

I just told you what happened with 18 of 24 for $100,000. Remember,  there are 20 million people on ObamaCare today receiving government  subsidies. When you take a look at that level of fraud happening across  the board, imagine how much taxpayer money is being wasted or stolen.

The losses to the taxpayers is staggering. And that, I would say to  the minority leader who came here and talked about the Republican  proposal being insulting, is insulting.

And then these fake applications that were approved without any  income verification--the law says you have got to verify somebody's  income. Under the law, the amount of money that a person would get, in  terms of bonuses, is supposed to be based on income. In one case, the  fake applicant's income, according to ObamaCare officials who worked  out the system, it was confirmed, they said, because of documentation.  That is what they said: Based on documentation, it was approved. The  people that made up the fake applications never provided any  documentation at all.

That is insulting to taxpayers.

In another case, the system never requested proof of citizenship.  That is how we know, for a fact, that ObamaCare subsidies go to illegal  immigrants. They don't ask if you are a citizen. It is easy for  noncitizens to apply.

Oh, investigators also found out that dead people were getting  ObamaCare subsidies. The Democrats don't care about any of that.

That is insulting to taxpayers.

Mr. President, 58,000 Social Security numbers that were linked to  death records were used to receive subsidies. More than 7,000 Social  Security numbers were used in enrollments after the date of that  person's death, signing them up after they were dead.

It is OK with the Democrats and the ObamaCare people, but not a  single Republican voted for it.

One Social Security number was used repeatedly to enroll people into  ObamaCare policies, and the fraudsters used it 125 times.

All together, investigators, through the Government Accountability  Office, discovered $21 billion lost to ObamaCare fraud. That is  insulting.

If Democrats were truly concerned about affordable healthcare, you  would think that they would want to root out the waste and the fraud.  Even the Washington Post says ``ObamaCare subsidies make it too easy to  scam the system.''

Yet, every Democrat is going to come down here to the floor tomorrow  and vote to continue the fraud.

The Democrat bill sends $83 billion directly from the Federal  Treasury to insurance companies, and it fails to include a single  reform to stop the waste, the fraud, the abuse, or the corruption  because Democrats simply don't care.

Their fat-cat friends at the big insurance companies don't care  either because they get paid directly from the government either way,  and the Democrats want to send another $83 billion their way without a  single reform.

The more people they enroll--either real people or fake people--the  more money the insurance companies pocket. Oh, and their fake  enrollees, they are not filing medical claims so that is just more  profit for the insurance companies.

This, of course, is money from hard-working taxpayers. Stock prices  of health insurance companies are up 500 to 1,000 percent since  ObamaCare became law.

Under Joe Biden, Democrats suspended ObamaCare income verification  for 4 straight years. As a result, millionaires get subsidies. Today,  millions pay nothing for their premiums.

This is what is wrong with the healthcare that we have in this  country right now under the Democrats, and they want to continue this  without any change, without any credibility.

In the minds of taxpayers, you say: You are going to continue to do  this? How is that credible? It is irresponsible.

It is insulting.

The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services reports 39 percent of  the people who signed up for healthcare coverage on ObamaCare this year  got health insurance, and they paid absolutely nothing for it--zero.  Some of them may not even know they got it, but the money went to the  insurance companies directly from the government. The American people  are paying the price.

The fraud has gotten so bad that last year, 200,000 people-- Americans--filed complaints with the Federal Government about their  health insurance. And they filed complaints because they were  unknowingly switched from one ObamaCare plan to another or from one  plan to something different. They didn't even know it was happening,  and that is the 200,000 that recognized it and complained to the  government.

Health insurance companies signed up these individuals for insurance  plans they never even knew they got. But if an insurance company or  somebody selling insurance gets a name, an identification number,  Social Security, they can--these brokers get paid a bonus for signing  up somebody new to the plan. The person is listed. Money goes to the  insurance company because the person is cut out of it and doesn't know  about.

That is why we had 200,000 complaints to the Federal Government last  year.

It is fraud, plain and simple. The Democrats want to continue it for  the next 3 years.

Here is the truth about healthcare and insurance companies: If you  don't stop fraud, the chronic high costs will never be cured. In fact,  they are going to get worse. That is why Republicans passed this past  summer strong, anti-fraud protections as part of our Working Families  Tax Cut bill.

Our reforms make it harder to cheat the system. Democrats don't like  that. Every one of them voted against our bill this past summer to put  in protections for taxpayers. Every Democrat voted no.

What Republicans did was restored income verification. Democrats:  Nope. We don't want to verify income. Send these subsidies to  millionaires. You hear the Senator from New Hampshire--I am sorry--the  Senator from Vermont down here talking about tax cuts for millionaires  and billionaires. They want to send subsidies for healthcare for  millionaires and billionaires. He could make that much money this year.  Keep sending them the subsidies.

Now, people are going to need to verify their income when they  reenroll, and we are going to require a full repayment when individuals  have underreported their income in an effort to get higher subsidies  because it is fraud.

Every single Democrat voted against the fraud provisions. They voted  against these protections that we had against the fraud. And now  Democrats, with what they want to do for the next 3 years, want to make  the fraud dramatically worse.

This needs to end. The American people deserve the care they need  from a doctor that they choose at a price they can afford. ObamaCare  absolutely failed to deliver that.

Republicans are committed to protecting taxpayers, committed to  rooting out the waste, the fraud, the abuse, and the corruption that  has become epidemic in ObamaCare.

So when the minority leader comes to the floor and makes his  statements and talks about the Republican proposal being insulting, I  would tell you what the Democrats have foisted on the American people  has been insulting; and the waste, fraud, and abuse that continues is a  continued insult to American taxpayers.