Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700667/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I come to the floor this morning having  just listened to the minority leader talk about the Department of  Homeland Security, which the Democrats once again refused to fund.

How can the minority leader from New York have forgotten about why we  have a Department of Homeland Security in the first place? It was set  up after 9/11, after the Twin Towers were hit, so that it could never  happen again. Yet to sit here and listen to him talk about this  component of it or that component--this was a program fundamentally set  in place to protect our Nation and our citizens from the terror that  was rained upon us on 9/11. That is why the entire Department was  brought together and funded. Now we hear the minority leader--well, he  wants to peel off this part and that part and take the Department apart  as we are trying to protect the country.

He said something about what the American people are wondering. What  the American people are wondering today is why the Democrat Party  continues to stand up for illegal immigrant criminals against law- abiding citizens. That is what I hear about in Wyoming: Why in the  world are Democrats wanting to stand up for illegal immigrant criminals  and not hard-working American citizens?

So for the last 27 days, the Democrats have shut down the entire  Department of Homeland Security lock, stock, and barrel. TSA agents are  missing their paychecks. Our Nation's infrastructure is more vulnerable  to cyber attacks. There have been two attacks by terrorist sympathizers  in the last 2 weeks.

The minority leader--you listen to his comments--is completely out of  touch with the American people and what people are worried about all  across this country. And there they go again. Here we have it.

Less than 5 months ago, Democrats shut down the entire government.  The government stayed shut for 43 days. Now we have gotten most of the  government funded, but they continue to shut down the Department of  Homeland Security for one reason and one reason only: because they want  to protect illegal immigrant criminals. When you listen to what he is  saying, when you listen to the comments by the minority leader, he  wants to stand side by side with illegal immigrant criminals, not with  the American people. Democrats want to defund law enforcement. They  want to abolish ICE. They want to turn our Nation into a sanctuary  nation.

Yesterday, once again, Democrats blocked Republican efforts to reopen  the Department of Homeland Security. Now, the White House and Senate  Republicans have made offer after offer. We negotiated in good faith.  Democrats in the Senate have not.

What we are doing here is critical. It is critical to the safety and  the security of our Nation. This is what we are doing: We are trying to  fund America's Department of Homeland Security. When this was set up  after the 9/11 attacks and the terrorism, what did they want to include  in that? TSA, the Coast Guard, Secret Service, America's cyber  defenses. It is the Department that stops smugglers, drug traffickers,  human traffickers.

The Department of Homeland Security was created to protect us as a  nation, and since 9/11 of 2001, this Department has been on the  frontlines in the fight against terrorism and securing the border. That  is the part the Democrats hate. They want an open border. They want  people to come in indiscriminately from all around the world. And Joe  Biden and the Democrats allowed it, with over 10 million illegal  immigrants coming into this country in the 4 years of the Biden  administration.

The people that work for the Department of Homeland Security--they  are the silent heroes of the Nation. They are the ones engaged in the  battle to keep our communities safe and secure. They shouldn't be  forced to miss their paychecks because Democrats continue to choose to  play politics. Right now, 50,000 TSA agents all around the country are  missing their paychecks. For the third time in 6 months, Democrats have  forced the TSA agents to work without getting paid.

A veteran TSA officer in Phoenix, AZ, was very clear. He said:

We are fed up. We've had enough.

I believe he is right. All Americans are fed up and have had enough  of this political posturing and gameplaying by the Democrats.

A CBS News report this week explains what is happening. Absences by  TSA agents have doubled--doubled since February 14 when the Democrat- caused shutdown began. More than 300 TSA agents have left the job  entirely, and lines at airports continue to grow. In some airports, the  lines stretch out of the terminal and into the parking lot. Spring  break travel is picking up all around the country. Families are paying  the price. That is the price of Democrats' political obstruction.

It is the same and concerning story with regard to the Cybersecurity  and Infrastructure Security Agency. This is the Agency put in place  after 9/11, under the Department of Homeland Security--the entire  Department--that protects our Nation's critical infrastructure, and  that includes our energy infrastructure.

Since the Democrat shutdown began last month, only one in three  staffers at the Agency is working. Why? Because the others have been  furloughed because of the Democrat-caused shutdown. And those who are  still on the job are working without pay.

America is continually under attack in the cyber world--24 hours a  day, 7 days a week. That is energy, banking, financial institutions,  water, utilities, and our military. After the strikes in Iran, the pace  of cyber attacks against us accelerated. The Iranian Revolutionary  Guard Corps made their intentions clear. They said Americans ``will no  longer have security anywhere in the world, even in their own homes.''

Imagine the damage that Iran could do if they hacked our critical  infrastructure--because they are trying. But because of the Democrats'  shutdown--and we just heard the minority leader talk about it. The  shutdown is continuing, he is saying. Because of that, vulnerability  scans are on pause. That shouldn't happen. We need to get these open  and running. Protective guidance for our critical networks is not being  issued. We need that.

Democrats don't seem to care because they want to protect illegal  immigrant criminals, and we just heard it from the minority leader of  the U.S. Senate, the Senator from New York, who ought to be more  concerned than anybody about threats to our Nation. Our energy grids,  our hospitals, our State and local governments--they are all more  exposed.

It is not a question of if the Democrat shutdown is hurting the  American people; it is a matter of public record. Democrats are each  and every day endangering Americans on the ground, in the skies, and  even in cyber space.

The American people expect their government to take our Nation's  security seriously. Democrats don't seem to be thinking that way at  all. The American people expect Congress to fund the Agencies that keep  them safe, not that keep safe illegal immigrant criminals. And that is  what we heard from the minority leader--what we could do differently to  protect illegal immigrant criminals, not protect the American people.

The American people expect us to pay the people who protect us, who  protect our airports, who protect our borders, who protect our  networks, who protect our communities. That is what the American people  want. They expect us to confront the threats at home and abroad and do  it with urgency.

Mr. President, the Department of Homeland Security must be funded  fully and immediately, and I am tired of excuses from the Democrats  because that is all they are--excuses.

Mr. BARRASSO. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the  Senator from Tennessee (Mrs. Blackburn).

The result was announced--yeas 89, nays 10, as follows:                        [Rollcall Vote No. 53 Leg.]                                  YEAS--89       Alsobrooks      Baldwin      Banks      Barrasso      Bennet      Blumenthal      Blunt Rochester      Booker      Boozman      Britt      Cantwell      Capito      Cassidy      Collins      Coons      Cornyn      Cortez Masto      Cotton      Cramer      Crapo      Curtis      Daines      Duckworth      Durbin      Ernst      Fetterman      Fischer      Gallego      Gillibrand      Graham      Grassley      Hagerty      Hassan      Hawley      Heinrich      Hickenlooper      Hirono      Hoeven      Husted      Hyde-Smith      Justice      Kaine      Kelly      Kennedy      Kim      King      Klobuchar      Lankford      Lujan      Lummis      Markey      Marshall      McConnell      McCormick      Merkley      Moody      Moran      Moreno      Mullin      Murkowski      Murphy      Murray      Ossoff      Padilla      Peters      Reed      Ricketts      Risch      Rosen      Rounds      Sanders      Schiff      Schmitt      Schumer      Scott (SC)      Shaheen      Sheehy      Slotkin      Smith      Sullivan      Thune      Van Hollen      Warner      Warnock      Warren      Welch      Whitehouse      Wicker      Wyden                                  NAYS--10       Budd      Cruz      Johnson      Lee      Paul      Schatz      Scott (FL)      Tillis      Tuberville      Young                               NOT VOTING--1               Blackburn

The bill (H.R. 6644), as amended, was passed.

(Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina assumed the chair.)

(Mr. HAGERTY assumed the chair.)