Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I come to the floor today following  Senate acquittal in the impeachment trial of President Trump. 

  After a 2-week trial, the U.S. Senate has delivered impartial  justice. Make no mistake: Senate acquittal is the final judgment,  forever clearing President Trump. 

  The House clearly made serious mistakes. Never before has a President  been impeached with no underlying crime, no defense counsel, and not a  single Republican vote. It was purely partisan and totally political. 

  The House overstepped its authority. The Senate, however, according  to the Constitution, has the final word. The Senate followed the law.  The Senate held a fair trial. We used the bipartisan Clinton trial  format. These rules ensured both sides full and equal time. 

  Let's not forget: In the House, the President's rights were ignored.  He had no voice, no due process, no defense. The Senate allowed the  President to defend himself, and his defense team presented a fact- based case. White House lawyers detailed the President's legitimate,  long-held concerns over Ukraine corruption. The President's legal team  made a strong case against the House impeachment articles. 

  House managers, meanwhile, failed to prove their case. Rather than  focus on facts, they appeared to be playing to the cameras. Incredibly,  House managers attacked the Senate jury, accusing Republicans of  ``corruption'' and ``cover-up.'' House managers played for time,  repeating speeches, demanding more witnesses we didn't need. In  reality, it was a weak case. There were no offenses that rose to the  Constitution's requirement of ``Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes  and Misdemeanors.'' 

  The House process was one-sided from the start. For political  purposes, Speaker Pelosi rushed the impeachment vote by Christmas,  claiming urgency. Then her sense of urgency disappeared. She proceeded  to delay the Senate trial for 4 weeks. The Speaker waited 33 days to  send us the Articles of Impeachment. This begs the question: Why delay  the removal of a President the Democrats in the House claim is  ``dangerous''? 

  Still, the Speaker insisted this spectacle was ``solemn,'' even  prayerful. Then came her strangely irreverent signing ceremony. Nothing  says solemn like souvenir signing pens. 

  The bottom line is: Partisan impeachment is poison--poison--for our  democracy. Senate acquittal is the antidote. Impeachment has hurt and  divided this country. It has also delayed important work on behalf of  the American people. Congress needs to now come together and move  forward. 

  Look at the incredible results we are already seeing under this  President. Thanks to tax and regulatory relief, our economy is booming.  American workers are winning. 

  We are seeing record job growth: 7 million new jobs, 500,000 new  manufacturing jobs, and 50-year-low unemployment. Middle-class and  blue-collar wages are rising. Household wealth is soaring. Consumer  confidence is at record highs. Add to that the President's America- first trade deals. The  U.S.-Mexico-Canada deal, deals with China, Japan, they are a boon for  our farmers and for our workers. What is more, we have unleashed  American energy. The U.S. is now No. 1 in oil and in natural gas. We no  longer need Middle East oil. We have also confirmed 187 highly  qualified Federal judges. Above all, we are keeping the country safe  and secure. President Trump has completely rebuilt our military. 

  Yet partisan impeachment has blocked progress. Congress has learned  its lesson: Impeachment, if it is to ever happen again, must be  bipartisan, fair, and rare. Senate acquittal is the final judgment. 

  Now, we are back to work for the American people. We are looking  forward to the important work ahead, to continuing our progress on  priorities like lowering prescription drug costs, securing our border,  and fixing our aging roads and bridges. 

  The 2020 Presidential election is fast approaching. In fact, voting  has already occurred in Iowa. It is time for the American people to  decide who serves as President. It is time for Congress to get back to  work. Thank you. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT