Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693090/iran


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, yesterday, the U.S. Senate got an update  from the administration about Saturday's strike on Iran. We heard from  Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth,  Central Intelligence Agency Director John Ratcliffe, and Gen. Dan  Caine, who is Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. They told us,  beyond a doubt, the Iran strikes were successful.

Two things are clear: one, President Trump protected our country;  and, two, America drew a redline on Iran--no nuclear weapons--and  President Trump enforced it.

Every recent President has said a nuclear Iran is unacceptable. Bill  Clinton said it. George W. Bush said it. Barack Obama said it. Joe  Biden said it. Even Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said back in  2015:

If there is only a 10 percent chance Iran uses a nuclear       weapon, it is vital we prevent it.

That is exactly what President Trump did, and he did it effectively.  For over 40 years, Iran has targeted, threatened, and terrorized the  United States and our allies. We know from our own intelligence and  from independent experts that Iran was dangerously close to getting  nuclear weapons.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have called for  diplomacy. Well, President Trump tried diplomacy for months. President  Trump laid down guidelines and deadlines, and then he drew a redline.  Iran used diplomatic talks to stall. It did so as it continued to race  toward a nuclear weapon.

As Commander in Chief, President Trump has the full authority to act.  He did so consistent with article II, section 2 of the Constitution,  and he did so decisively. It was a limited, powerful, and precise  strike. It was aimed specifically at Iran's nuclear facilities--not at  Iran's leadership, not at the Iranian people. And here is more good  news: No American lives were lost--absolutely none.

This was a powerful message to Iran, but not just to Iran--also to  Russia, to China, to North Korea, and to anyone else who is an  adversary of the United States. The message is this: America means what  it says, and America will keep our people safe.

Now, Democrats, of course, rushed to turn this successful strike into  a political fight. Even today, they are forcing the Senate to vote this  very afternoon on a resolution that says the President lacked the  authority to do what he did. They have gone so far as to imply that the  successful protection of the American people is an impeachable offense.  Democrats are calling for the President's impeachment because of his  successful attack on the Iranian nuclear program.

National security should be something that unites us. But let's not  forget that Democrats have said Presidents can act without a vote of  Congress. They have said it many times in the past. Recall, when  President Obama struck Libya in 2011, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said  Congress wasn't needed because the strike was ``limited.''

Now that there is a Republican in the White House, what we are seeing  is that Democrats are suddenly trying to rewrite the rules. National  security moves fast. That is why our Constitution gives the Commander  in Chief real authority. President Trump seized the moment. He did it  responsibly; he did it decisively; and he did it constitutionally.  America and our allies are safer today because of it.

And the resolution from Senator Kaine that we are voting on today I  believe is not needed, and I most certainly will oppose it. If passed,  it would prevent the President from protecting us in the future. I urge  all of my colleagues to reject it.