Joint Session of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688471/joint-session-of-congress


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, tonight President Trump will take the  podium, and he will have a joint address to Congress, and, clearly, to  the Nation.

I just heard the minority leader of the Senate come to the floor and  talk about President Trump's promises. Well, let me talk about those  promises--promises made, promises kept by President Trump.

He has only been in the office now for 7 weeks, and he has a very  strong record of accomplishment in those 7 weeks. What did he promise  he would do? He said he would cut wasteful Washington spending. Well,  that is a promise that he has kept.

What we are seeing is the most comprehensive audit of Federal  spending of money in history. This administration already, in just  these short weeks, has identified $55 billion of savings.

President Trump promised to secure the border. Well, he has kept that  promise as well. He immediately began deporting criminal illegal  immigrants. They are here in the country illegally, and they were  criminals--heinous crimes. We are talking about murderers, rapists,  drug dealers. The word got out around the world. Illegal border  crossings in February dropped to an alltime low.

President Trump said he would unleash American energy. He has kept  that promise as well. On day one, President Trump declared a national  energy emergency. Now, this is going to unlock America's full energy  potential. He withdrew from the Paris climate accord. Did it once  before, but Joe Biden put us back in.

What we saw in the Biden administration is they applied handcuffs to  American energy producers and American energy production. President  Trump said: No, we are not doing that. He has opened Alaska's vast  amounts of energy for the American people.

He pulled the plug on Biden's electric vehicle mandates. He reopened  625 million acres of offshore drilling. Remember, Joe Biden, in the  final days of his administration, with his midnight regulation to ban  that exploration for American energy.

President Trump promised to protect women who participate in sports.  He kept that promise. The Trump administration marks the return to  common sense.

We have seen that return to common sense, also, Mr. President, in  here in the U.S. Senate because we are determined to get America back  on track. There is no time to waste.

One measure of our rapid start is the historic pace with which we  have been able to confirm members of President Trump's Cabinet.

Senate Republicans have now confirmed 20--20--members of President  Trump's Cabinet. We confirmed President Trump's Education Secretary  just last evening. So compared to previous Presidents, this is a  remarkable pace. More confirmations than President Obama had at this  point in 2009; more confirmations than President Biden had in 2021. It  surpasses the timeline of any President in recent history.

President Trump's nominees are strong. They are smart. They have a  history of success, and that history is going to continue now that they  are members of the Cabinet.

Our success has had a direct impact on President Trump's agenda. With  his team in place, President Trump has been able to execute effectively  and efficiently.

The Senate has also acted decisively to secure the border. Within  days of taking office, Senate Republicans passed the Laken Riley Act.  The Laken Riley Act is named after a young nursing student in Georgia.  She was murdered by an illegal immigrant. She was just out for a jog.  We named the bill in her honor. The Laken Riley Act saves American  lives. It requires illegal immigrant criminals to be deported. It was  bipartisan legislation. And 12 Democrats voted with us to pass this  legislation, and it is now law of the land.

The Laken Riley Act sends a clear message that tragedies like this  never be allowed to happen again in the United States of America, that  the era of open borders is over.

Senate Republicans mean business. After years of crises, we are now  securing the border. The numbers tell the story. We are deporting  illegal immigrant criminals on a daily basis, and we are also working  with the House of Representatives on our shared agenda. We are  delivering on the promises that we made to the American people. We are  going to secure the border, we will restore peace through strength, we  are unleashing American energy, and we are going to stop the Democrats'  oncoming freight train of a $4 trillion tax increase.

Democrats oppose all of these things. They want to raise American  public taxes by $4 trillion. Mr. President, we are going to stop that.  President Trump is only 43 days in this office in his historic  Presidency, an incredible comeback victory--the comeback king, as I  call him from his ability to win this election. He won 312 electoral  votes, every one of the battleground States, and this President has not  wasted a second, a minute, an hour, or a day in office because he knows  how important it is to act quickly.

He is doing that. He is solving the urgent problems facing our  Nation, what American people elected him to do, what the American  people expect, and it is what the American people are seeing. So the  President is working with the House and the Senate, all of us working  together to get America back on track, and we are going to deliver what  the Americans have asked for: safety and prosperity for the people of  this great country.