Letter to the Hon. Neil Chatterjee, Chairman of the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - Inhofe, Cruz Applaud FERC Rejection of Partisan Calls to Halt Review of Energy Infrastructure Projects


Dear Chairman Chatterjee,

As the United States continues to fight the COVID-19 pandemic and begins to focus on the longterm recovery of our nation, we want to applaud the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission(FERC) for continuing to process applications to improve America's energy infrastructure andfor rejecting partisan requests to halt review of new natural gas pipeline projects and LiquefiedNatural Gas (LNG) export facilities.

FERC's April 2, 2020 announcement providing for business continuity with regard to energyinfrastructure was an important first step. We commend the commission and its staff for grantingshort-term waivers to ensure FERC operations are able to continue in a safe manner, whileremaining attentive to jurisdictional needs and adhering to social distancing guidance. Duringthis pandemic FERC has demonstrated the ability to continue operations while taking steps tomaintain public involvement, despite protests to the contrary.

The April 15, 2020 letter sent by 29 House Democrats and the May 7, 2020 letter sent byattorneys general from 10 states and the District of Columbia requesting FERC declare amoratorium on the approval and construction of gas-pipeline projects and LNG export facilitiesare part of a continued effort to shut down energy development from sources opposed by GreenNew Deal enthusiasts and their political allies. This same group of politicians and activists arepressuring financial institutions and lenders to violate their fiduciary duties to their clients andlimit energy producers' access to capital.

As you well know, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted nearly every corner of the country,including the energy sector. A drop in global demand has had profound implications on oil andgas extraction, projected capital spending, and the energy industry's workforce. Slowing theapproval process and delaying construction at a time when millions of Americans are out ofwork is profoundly wrong. Each project employs thousands of people, generates tax revenue forstates and localities, and contributes billions of dollars in capital expenditures to the economy.Now is not the time to take advantage of a pandemic for political gain. The levers of governmentshould be used to restore America's energy independence and security, and to grow the economyout of the crisis. 

To that end, FERC should evaluate opportunities to reduce the regulatory burden oninfrastructure projects. Not only is it important for our national security to restore our position asa net exporter, but LNG has proven to be a reliable, affordable and clean form of energy.According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, natural gas supplies more than onethird of all energy used nationwide and contributed to a reduction in carbon emissions. Someestimates show our nation has a 100-year supply of natural gas to meet growing energy needs.

Instead of using a global health pandemic to shut down an industry and score political points, wehope that political leadership at both the state and federal level can come together and find longterm, commonsense solutions to help workers, families, and small business owners grow theirway out of this crisis.