Letter to Donald Trump, President of the U.S. - Higgins Encourages Trump, Appropriators to Prioritize I-10 Bridge in Any Infrastructure Package


President Trump:Thank you for your recent visit to the 3rd District of Louisiana to tour Sempra Energy's CameronLNG Export Facility. Your visit brought national attention to the over $100 billion in announced energyprojects and $65 billion in projects already underway in the region.The 3rd District is home to historic economic growth and job creation as part of the LNG boom,and I am honored that you recognize Louisiana's significance regarding American energy dominance. InCalcasieu and Cameron parishes, projects like Sasol, Cheniere, Sabine Pass LNG, Driftwood LNG,Magnolia LNG, Cameron LNG, and many others are creating tens of thousands of jobs and generatingbillions in economic development. Southwest Louisiana is quickly becoming a global leader in energyexports.Your leadership will continue to play a large role in the success of these projects. While historictax cuts, regulatory reform, and an America-first business climate have paved the way for projects likethese, we must also focus on the infrastructure needs of this region. It was uplifting to hear yourcommitment to beginning the work needed to build a new bridge over Interstate 10 (I-10) in LakeCharles, La.As you may know, the current I-10 Calcasieu River bridge opened for traffic in 1952 and wasdesigned for a traffic load of 37,000 crossings per day with a 50-year life span. In 2016, the average dailycrossings were over 80,000.As you have seen firsthand, Southwest Louisiana's economic boom is driving the need for a newbridge. While our region is the fastest growing in Louisiana and among the top nationally for economicgrowth, Southwest Louisiana's growing infrastructure needs have largely been unaddressed. In order forthe State and the nation to fully capitalize on the success of these projects and corresponding job creation,we must ensure that the region receives the infrastructure resources it needs to thrive. This includesfunding for a new Interstate bridge and the dredging of our waterways.With strategic investments, we can unlock Southwest Louisiana's full economic potential, whichwill be a major benefit to the entire nation.Again, I am grateful for your personal attention to the growing national significance andinfrastructure needs of Southwest Louisiana. My office stands at the ready to assist with or answer anyquestions you and your team may have about the I-10 Calcasieu River bridge and a potential replacement