Nomination of Robert J. Feitel


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, clean and constant nuclear energy is  one of the key pillars of America's energy security. Nuclear  powerplants supply 20 percent of our Nation's electricity and more than  50 percent of our clean energy. 

  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is the independent Federal agency  that regulates these powerplants to protect public health and safety.  It is a very important job. These independent regulatory structures and  this specific one has successfully benefited the American people for  decades by ensuring the safe operation of our nuclear reactors. 

  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission's inspector general is responsible  for detecting and preventing waste, fraud, and abuse, as well as  mismanagement at the Commission. 

  President Trump has nominated Mr. Robert Feitel to serve as inspector  general of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. He did that last October.  Mr. Feitel has been reported out of the Environment and Public Works  Committee by unanimous vote in December. Today the Senate will vote to  confirm him. 

  Mr. Feitel is well qualified. He brings a wealth of experience and  expertise to this important position. Mr. Feitel has spent more than 25  years as an attorney at the Department of Justice and at the Federal  Bureau of Investigation. During his long career Mr. Feitel received  numerous achievement awards for his excellent service. 

  Mr. Feitel will be the first new inspector general at the Nuclear  Regulatory Commission in over 25 years. His nomination comes at a  pivotal time for both the nuclear industry and the Commission. Some  utilities are seeking to operate their nuclear plants for 20 more  years, while others are shutting down, and they are shutting their  reactors before their licenses even expire. The Commission is also  preparing to license new nuclear technologies that will be essential to  our clean energy future. 

  This time of unprecedented activity requires a fully staffed and a  fully functional agency. The Commission needs an inspector general to  promote the efficiency and effectiveness of the Commission. Mr. Feitel  is that individual. Mr. Feitel is a man of character whose commitment  to upholding justice makes him an ideal candidate for the position. 

  I encourage the entire Senate to vote today to confirm Mr. Robert  Feitel to serve as the inspector general of the Nuclear Regulatory  Commission. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT