Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I come to the floor today with the  remarks I had prepared while home in Wyoming last week, but first I  need to comment on the tragedy that is facing our Nation today. 

  Anyone who has seen the video of George Floyd being murdered-- murdered--has to be heartbroken. The peaceful protests that followed-- peaceful at first--about police abuse against any--any--American are  important and are necessary. These peaceful protests about George  Floyd's death have been hijacked, though, by violent criminals. Anyone  who sees the video of the wanton destruction and the looting and the  rioting and the arson knows that those who are involved have no respect  for the people they are harming. They dishonor the memory of George  Floyd, and they dishonor the cause for which the demonstrators and the  protesters first took to the streets. 

  Those who would desecrate the Lincoln Memorial, the World War II  Veterans Memorial, and the church that every President has worshipped  in going back to James Madison--those are people who are set on  undermining our Nation                                 Coronavirus  

  My goal today is to come to the floor to talk about rebuilding our  Nation--rebuilding our Nation as we recover from coronavirus. 

  Last week at Memorial Day services in Wyoming, I reflected on  America's heroes and the sacrifices so many have made for the rest of  us. 

  As I talk with people in Wyoming and travel the State, I am reminded  how self-reliant, how resourceful, how independent, and how resilient  we are as Americans. 

  Well, the worst of coronavirus does now seem to be behind us. People  want to get back to work. The economy, forcefully shut down by the  government, is now showing signs of life. Businesses are starting to  reopen. As we say in the West, it is time to get back in the saddle. We  are going to fully reopen our communities, and we are going to do it  smartly, safely, and soon. Every Governor needs to speed, not impede,  the process so people can return to work. 

  Just as important, our children need to get back to school. It is  critical. Parents know how important it is for our students and our  kids to be back in the classroom. The lockdowns have been hard on young  people. Our kids miss their teachers, they miss their friends, and they  miss their normal activities. 

  Every child learns differently. Many children are having trouble  learning at home, and others are having difficulty learning on the  screen. Some kids are basically teaching themselves. 

  What happens if an at-risk child misses an entire year of school? And  what about the impact on child welfare? 

  I published an op-ed last week entitled ``Coronavirus Collateral  Damage.'' In it, I noted that pediatricians are very concerned that  with the shutdowns, a significant number of child abuse cases are going  undetected and unreported. 

  Thankfully, schools are figuring out safe ways to reopen. The Senate  Health Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee is holding a hearing  this week on going back to college safely, and next week we are going  to hold a hearing called ``Going Back to School Safely.'' 

  Most of the K-12 schools and colleges hope to reopen this fall.  Research tells us that young people are better able to deal with the  virus and are less likely to suffer symptoms of the disease. 

  Nevertheless, the California State university system has decided to  keep all of its campuses closed for the fall semester--every one of  them. They say they will not open any of them again until after New  Year's. California's university system is the country's largest and  serves about half a million students. They have campuses throughout the  State of California, and they are taking a one-size-fits-all approach,  treating every campus as if they are all identical. In my view, that  decision is misguided. 

  To date, nearly two-thirds of U.S. colleges plan to reopen this fall.  That is according to the Chronicle of Higher Education, which is  researching the universities and talking with them, finding out exactly  what is going on from school to school. 

  Universities across the country are rolling out responsible reopening  plans aimed at protecting students as well as staff. 

  Back at home, the University of Wyoming in Laramie is advancing a  bold fall reopen agenda and plan. The university has asked the Governor  for $79 million in Federal coronavirus relief funds to help support the  effort. Some of the safety measures being discussed include single dorm  rooms, smaller classes, enhanced cleaning, and required staff and  student coronavirus testing every several weeks. 

  In a recent statement, the University of Wyoming president stressed  ``the importance of an on-campus educational experience.'' The  president of the University of Wyoming, Neil Theobald, has pledged to  ``bring our students back to campus safely and protect the health of  our community to the highest extent possible.'' 

  Last week, two university presidents in Indiana published op-eds  discussing their decisions to reopen this fall. 

  Writing in the Washington Post, Purdue University president and  former Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels said that failing to reopen would  be ``an unacceptable breach of duty''--an unacceptable breach of duty.  He said Purdue based its decision on current scientific data showing  COVID-19, while very dangerous for the old and the sick, ``poses a near  zero risk to young people.'' To keep the community safe, Purdue is  taking a number of steps, including making its campus less dense.  Purdue will require one-third of the staff to work remotely. 

  The former Governor said that personal responsibility is key. He goes  on to say: ``Upon arrival in August, each Boilermaker will receive a  kit including face masks and a thermometer for daily temperature taking  as well as the Protect Purdue Pledge.'' President Mitchell Daniels  said: ``Forty-five thousand young people--the biggest student  population we've ever had--are telling us they want to be here this  fall.'' 

  Only a week after California's decision to stay closed for the fall  and the rest of the year, the University of Notre Dame made headlines  by announcing it will reopen this fall. 

  Writing in the New York Times last week, Notre Dame president,  Reverend John Jenkins, said: ``Educating young people--the future  leaders of our society--is worth risking a good deal.'' 

  Notre Dame is going to open August 10--2 weeks earlier than they had  planned--and to limit the back and the forth, the Fighting Irish will  forgo their fall break and end the semester before Thanksgiving. Other  safety measures being considered include masks, social distancing,  aggressive testing, temperature checks, contact tracing, and remote  options for at-risk students and staff. Father Jenkins noted that the  school's decision is guided by science but also took courage and common  sense.  

  These schools have sought the best possible medical advice. They are  following Federal public health guidelines, and they are committed to  protecting the vulnerable. 

  This is all new territory. There is no manual. Every community faces  a unique set of challenges. Every school must chart its own course.  Still, we can all agree that during this difficult and challenging  time, America's schools must stand with their students, and not just  for the well-being of the students but for others as well. Colleges are  critical for the economic health of entire communities; hence the name  ``college towns.'' Universities are major employers, often the best  local source of stable jobs. Many university jobs are also on the line  this fall. The college shutdowns have also shut down Main Street. For  many small businesses, losing graduation weekend alone was a crushing  blow. Can mom-and-pop businesses sustain another lost semester? 

  Taking away people's educational opportunities, social supports, and  livelihoods has a real, negative impact. 

  Here is the bottom line: We have learned that we can protect people  from the virus and we can get back to normal life. 

  For the good of the whole society, it is so critically important that  we reopen now. It is time for America to get back in the saddle again. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT