Reconciliation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702048/reconciliation


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, the U.S. Border Patrol and our  Immigration and Customs Enforcement have a complex and essential role  in the lives of all Americans. They have a big mission. They arrest  drug traffickers, they arrest terror suspects, they arrest human  traffickers, they save exploited children, and they secure our border.  This work is absolutely critical to our Nation's security.

Not long ago, Democrats actually agreed with all of those things I  said. In 2019, Senator Schumer, the minority leader--this is what he  said to NBC News.

He said:

ICE does some functions that are very much needed.

They don't seem to think that anymore. Now Senator Schumer is leading  the charge to abolish ICE, and he wants to defund the Border Patrol.  That is because today Democrats care more about protecting illegal  immigrant criminals than protecting law-abiding American citizens.

For more than 2 months, Republicans have negotiated in good faith to  fully fund critical law enforcement Agencies in this country. We are  done negotiating. We are moving forward alone. Republicans are going to  fund ICE and Border Patrol without a single Democrat vote. We are not  going to concede a single one of their demands, and these are demands  made by radical Senate Democrats.

The Senate is going to consider a budget resolution this week. The  resolution is targeted, and it is focused. Here is what it does:

First, it fully funds and fully supports the men and women of ICE and  Border Patrol.

Second, it funds them for the next 3 years.

Third, it gives them more resources than ever before. ICE receives  more money to protect our communities. Border Patrol receives more  money to secure our borders. Increased funding means more law  enforcement. It means more illegal immigrants will be deported as  criminals. It means more investigations into drug cartels and human  traffickers. It means that our communities will be safer.

It is just common sense. Consider the commonsense policy changes that  Republicans offered and Democrats refused to accept: $20 million to buy  body cameras for agents to wear; Democrats voted no. More oversight of  ICE spending; Democrats voted no. More money for deescalation training;  Democrats voted no.

The Department of Homeland Security now has a new leader. It is  Markwayne Mullin--we know him--from the great State of Oklahoma. At his  confirmation hearing, now-Secretary Mullin committed to working with  Democrats on commonsense reforms to immigration enforcement. Almost  every Democrat still voted against his confirmation. Why? Not because  they don't like him personally but because Democrats don't want to  reform ICE. They want to abolish ICE. That is the difference. They want  to abolish our Border Patrol. They want to defund law enforcement in  America.

Here is what Democrats are still demanding: Senate Democrats want to  ban ICE agents from wearing masks. Masks help protect agents and their  families from being doxed by gangs of radical thugs. We know that open  border groups are publishing the names and home addresses of agents  online. These dangerous actions are one more reason that attacks on ICE  agents have been rising dramatically.

These open border Democrats have a long-term goal. Their goal is to  make life so miserable and so frightening for the families of ICE and  Border Patrol agents that these highly trained professionals quit their  jobs. The Democrats' long-term goal is to undermine the hiring of new  agents and shut them down completely.

So, today, Republicans are moving forward to fund law enforcement.

To my Democratic colleagues, you have lost your war on law  enforcement. You have failed to turn America into one big sanctuary  country, as you have turned so many cities into sanctuary cities all  across the country. You have failed to take America backward to the  days of open borders by the Democrats, when more than 10 million  illegal immigrants flooded into our country on the Democrats' watch.  Under Republican leadership, zero illegal immigrants have been released  into our country now in almost a year.

Republicans want ICE and Border Patrol to be able to do their job.  Republicans want law enforcement to be funded. We want American  citizens and American communities to be safe. Americans deserve safety  and security.  This week, Republicans are delivering it.