Recognizing Natrona County Cdc's Art A La Carte Gala


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690065/recognizing-natrona-county-cdcs-art-a-la-carte-gala


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the Child  Development Center of Natrona County as it celebrates the 25th  anniversary of its largest fundraiser, the Kids' Art a la Carte Gala.

On May 3, 2025, the Natrona County Child Development Center will host  its annual fundraiser at the Ford Wyoming Center in Casper, WY.  Proceeds from this special event go directly toward supporting the  CDC's services and programming. It is a wonderful opportunity for the  community to share its support for the CDC's important mission:  providing premiere, family-focused, developmentally appropriate  services for Wyoming's kids.

The child development center opened its doors in 1967. Over the  years, the CDC has helped to ensure that the social, developmental, and  educational needs of the children in our communities are being met.  Today, this organization, led by executive director Alisha Rone, serves  close to 700 children each year. Its team of 120 individuals provide  support, advice, and--when needed--intervention to parents and their  children.

The CDC's early intervention services are key to ensuring the  lifelong success of our children. Offering free screenings and  educational materials, the CDC provides children in Natrona County with  a solid foundation. The center's certified teachers and therapists help  provide a plan tailored to every child and their needs. Its accredited  preschool prepares kids ages three through five for kindergarten.

For children who need extra assistance, there is the CDC+ program. In  addition to providing speech, occupational, and physical therapies, the  program offers audiology services and reading coaching.

The teachers, therapists, support staff, and leadership continue  demonstrating selflessness and compassion. This year, the CDC received  the Daniels Fund Medal of Excellence and a $250,000 grant. The grant  will fund its continued operations and expansion of its services at no  cost to participating families.

Providing the excellent service the CDC is known for takes a team of  talented people. This team includes the CDC's senior leadership, board  of directors, foundation board, and dedicated employees. The Child  Development Center's Senior Leadership team includes: Alisha Rone,  executive director; Lori Kapeles, program director; Jan Hinz, special  education director; Geoff Dean, finance director; Shannon Hillibush,  human resources director; and Renate Pullen, compliance director.

Members of the CDC Board of Directors are: Bryce Row, president;  Michelle Larsen, vice president; Patricia Cloud, treasurer; Anna Birch  DeWitt; Tayla Trujillo; Ally Orr; Nikki Hawley; Scott Wells; Tony  Hager; Bobby Pickle; Brad Diller; and Fleur Tremel.

Those serving on the CDC Foundation Board include: Mark Zaback,  chairman; Jeff Bishop, treasurer; Robyn Landen; Shannon Orr; Peter Van  Houten; Pete Fazio; Isaac Swanson; Dave Dundas; and Alisha Rone.

Mr. President, it is an honor celebrate the 25th anniversary of the  Child Development Center of Natrona County's annual Kids Art A La Carte  Gala. The positive impact the CDC has made on the families and children  of our community is genuinely remarkable. I offer my appreciation for  all those who support the CDC. Your efforts ensure children in Wyoming  have a strong foundation to prepare them for a lifetime of success.