State of the Union Address


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700171/state-of-the-union-address


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, tonight the President of the United  States will give the State of the Union Address. Americans are going to  hear two things from the President. They are going to hear a record of  progress that puts America back on track. They will also hear a plan to  build on that progress.

In the 2024 election, Americans demanded safety and prosperity, and  Republicans have delivered. Republicans cut taxes for Americans. We  eliminated wasteful Washington spending. We rolled back regulations  that strangled businesses and punished small businesses all across the  country. We restored American energy dominance.

Today, America is safer, more secure, and more prosperous than it was  when Joe Biden left the White House a little over a year ago. For the 4  years of his Presidency, painfully high prices punished American  families. Republicans' policies have changed all of that. Our focus is  affordability. The proof is in the pockets of the American people.

Last year, Republicans passed the Working Families Tax Cut law. Every  Democrat--every single Democrat in this body--voted against it. That  law benefits every single American taxpayer.

Every working American receives a permanently lower tax rate. Every  working American receives a permanent increase in the standard  deduction.

Farmers, ranchers, small business owners, and Main Street small  business owners receive permanent relief from the dreaded death tax.

All parents are going to receive a permanent increase in the child  tax credit--$2,200 for each child each year. Waiters, barbers, and  bartenders are going to keep more money because of no taxes on tips.  Nurses, firefighters, police officers, and coal miners will keep more  money because of no tax on overtime.

Millions of seniors living on Social Security will receive higher  payments as a result of no taxes on Social Security.

New parents can save and invest in their child's future through the  historic new Trump accounts.

Republicans didn't stop with cutting taxes--oh, no. We also removed  burdensome government regulations that strangled our economy. Just this  month, in a historic decision, the Trump administration ended the so- called endangerment finding. That was an Obama-era regulation that  raised car prices and limited consumer choice. This is the single  largest action to cut burdensome regulation by any administration ever,  and it is going to make life more affordable.

It follows a year of rolling back redtape. Last year, President Trump  eliminated 646 regulations, and his actions saved hard-working  Americans over $200 billion.

This is just the beginning. So what are the results so far? Inflation  is at the lowest it has been in 5 years. More Americans are working-- millions more--and wages are going up. The economy continues to see  robust growth. Productivity grew twice as fast last year as it has over  the past decade. That is what we have been able to deliver. These are  the facts and figures.

Let me put it in personal terms. Because of the economic policies  enacted in the past year, workers in America now have $1,400 more in  each and every one of their pockets than they did before President  Trump took office. From the gas station, to the grocery store, to the  pharmacy, paychecks are going further. Families are feeling financial  relief, and more relief is on the way because there is more work for us  to do.

Let's consider what the Democrats--the people on the other side of  the aisle--want to do instead.

Joe Biden and the Democrats' reckless tax and spending agenda caused  the worst inflation in 40 years. Record-high inflation. Sky-high  prices. Today, these Democrats are determined to bring that back--that  pain, that suffering. They want it all again.

These Democrats tried to raise taxes on American workers by $4  trillion. Every single Democrat in this body--every single one of them  on the other side of the aisle--voted in favor of the largest tax  increase in America's history. We stopped them. We stopped them. Had  these Democrats gotten their way, Americans would be paying more taxes  today, not less. The refund checks coming would be smaller rather than  larger, which is what they are going to get with the Republican plan  when they get their tax refunds this year.

Even now, Democrats are still trying to raise your taxes. These  Democrats are trying to undo the very policies that are putting more  money back into the pocketbooks and the purses of American families.

Americans rejected the failed agenda of high prices and of open  border and of high taxes. The American people chose safety and  prosperity instead.

So, today, America is heading in the right direction. This is an all- American economic comeback, and we are going to continue to build on  it, and people are going to hear that tonight when the President  speaks.

Tonight, President Trump will lay out his vision for continuing to  make America safer and more prosperous for the people who are here, the  citizens of this country, and Senate Republicans are going to work  closely with him to do precisely that.