Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697341/trump-administration


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, the fallout from Joe Biden's disastrous  decision hurt Americans then, and it continues to hurt Americans today.  President Trump and Republicans are working to reverse these failures.  The President is strengthening law enforcement. He is deporting  criminals who are here in our country illegally, and he is taking a  hard look at anyone who has been improperly vetted. His actions will  make America safer and more secure.

Joe Biden's disgraceful withdrawal was not an isolated failure. It  was part of a pattern of dangerous, destructive, and deadly policies.  More than 10 million illegal immigrants entered our country under Joe  Biden and the Democrats. Millions more are known ``got-aways.'' They  are individuals who were seen by the Border Patrol but never charged,  never stopped, never questioned.

How many more terrorists slipped into our country because Democrats  threw open the borders? Where are they now? What are they up to? We  don't know.

Most Americans understand that national security begins with border  security. That means we must stop people from entering our country  illegally. It means we must ensure dangerous individuals do not enter  our country, even through legal means, and it certainly means we must  remove dangerous criminals that are in the country today.

As the Trump administration recently warned, ``mass migration poses  an existential threat to Western civilization.''

So what do the Democrats think? Well, on Sunday, on ``Face the  Nation,'' CBS asked the junior Senator from Virginia if the vetting  process should be strengthened after the shooting. Now, that is exactly  what President Trump is doing. The Senator refused to answer that  question. Instead, he told a national television audience that having  the National Guard in Washington, DC, was a ``political stunt.'' He  blamed President Trump.

``Political stunt''? It is a matter of public safety.

President Trump is the one who is protecting American citizens from  terrorist attacks--attacks like the one witnessed last week, just in  front of the White House. President Trump and Republicans want every  American to be safe, to be secure, and to be prosperous. This is our  top priority.

After last week's brutal attack, securing our border and our  communities is more urgent than ever, and Republicans are going to  continue to remove criminals from the streets and get the terrorists  out of the country.