USA Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020--Continued


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, we have just voted on an amendment by  Senator Lee, which passed overwhelmingly. As we in the Senate are  working to defeat this invisible enemy, the coronavirus, we are also  mindful that there are other real threats around the globe. That is why  the amendment that we just passed was so important to be debated and  discussed and dealt with--the bill that is on the floor--because the  Senate is debating a bill to provide national security tools to our  intelligence community. 

  We want to make sure they have the right tools, the tools that work,  that provide national security but also freedom for American citizens. 

  Now, this is unfinished business because these tools under the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act have been left on the shelf,  expired now for nearly 2 months. 

  Before Congress departed the Capitol due to the coronavirus, the  Senate passed a bipartisan bill to temporarily keep these authorities  in place. The House Democrats left without acting on what the Senate  had passed. Speaker Pelosi left town, and she left our national  security frozen. 

  Now, this week, Congress is going to pass a 3-year reauthorization of  these authorities under FISA. These authorities are known as the  business records provision, the roving wiretaps provision, and the lone  wolf amendment. 

  The business records provision, or section 215, as it is known,  compels telecommunications companies to provide call records relevant  to investigation. 

  The roving wiretaps provision allows surveillance of multiple  cellphones of an investigative target. This allows national security  operators to keep up with a target, even as she or he goes through  burner phones. 

  The lone wolf amendment allows national security operators to  investigate targets unaffiliated with a specific terrorist  organization. That is why they are called lone wolves. 

  Combined, these tools give the intelligence community and law  enforcement important capabilities: to surveil bad actors, to get to  them before they get to us, and to take apart their networks. Congress  put these authorities in place after 9/11. They have been updated with  broad bipartisan support numerous times. Importantly, the tools have  helped keep our country safe and strong now for nearly 20 years after  9/11. 

  There have been abuses of the FISA process unrelated to these  provisions, which this bill also addresses. The bill puts in place  safeguards to ensure FISA applications are accurate and complete, with  multiple layers of approval before an application goes to the Foreign  Intelligence Surveillance Court. The bill also makes the FISA process  more accountable, from the Attorney General on down. Those who hide  information, those who engage in misconduct, or those who disclose  information will be met with prison time. 

  The bill provides a greater role for Congress to make sure there are  another set of eyes on FISA applications. 

  All together, these are significant reforms that the Attorney General  has said will protect against abuse and misuse in the future. He went  on to say the bill deserved broad bipartisan support, and I agree.                                 Coronavirus  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I also come to the floor today to  discuss America's relationship with China. The coronavirus has made  clear that our current relationship with China is built on a house of  cards. It is simply too risky. 

  We have to learn the lessons from this global pandemic. The outbreak  has taught us that the time has come to break away from dangerous  aspects of the relationship. By mishandling and manipulating the  crisis, China has revealed itself to be not worthy of our trust. 

  Let me be clear. The Chinese people are not to blame for any of this.  The people of China have also suffered tremendously. It is the Chinese  Communist Party that is at fault. The virus could have been contained  had it not been for the Chinese Government's unscrupulous coverup.  China knew the risk months before the rest of the world; yet Chinese  communist leaders destroyed key evidence, they underreported the number  of coronavirus cases, and they misled the world about its deadly, rapid  spread. In fact, Chinese leaders silenced the heroic Chinese doctor,  Dr. Li, who tried to sound the alarm and who later died from the virus. 

  China's deceit doesn't stop there. China has repeatedly denied U.S.  officials access to the country to uncover the truth about the deadly  disease. Meanwhile, the Chinese Government continues to engage in a  disinformation campaign to try to avoid blame. 

  With this track record, China cannot continue to control  international groups like the World Health Organization. The United  States is the World Health Organization's single largest financial  supporter. Yet, from the start, the World Health Organization blindly  accepted Chinese leaders' false reporting, and they understated the  threat. 

  Today, America knows how dangerous it is to depend on China not just  for information but also for essential equipment, for products, for  materials, for minerals, and certainly for medicine. China didn't warn  the world when the outbreak began. Instead, China secretly hoarded  masks and protective gear. China knew that global shortages would soon  follow. Then China threatened to cut off lifesaving antibiotics and  other critical drug exports to the United States. 

  The virus should have been contained in Wuhan, China. Tens and tens  of thousands of Americans and hundreds of thousands of people worldwide  have died as a result of China's failure. 

  Looking forward, America should focus on priorities right now to  protect ourselves from future health crises. 

  No. 1, not again, not ever will America rely on information from  international health organizations. We should set up direct bilateral  health relationships with other countries. U.S. personnel on the ground  must include monitoring of health data in their national security  determinations. 

  No. 2, not again, not ever will we let people travel to the United  States from countries where there is a major outbreak. We should  restrict travel early on, just as President Trump did with regard to  China. 

  No. 3, not again, not ever will America be without an early warning  system. Our gateway cities, in particular, need better monitoring and  surveillance of health issues when people enter the United States. 

  No. 4, not again, not ever will America rely on critical health  equipment from China. We should encourage U.S. companies to create  Western and American supply chains. That way our frontline workers have  what they need in the time of crisis.  

  No. 5, not again, not ever will we be exclusively sourced for  critical drugs from China. We should diversify supply and bring home as  much of our supply chain as possible. 

  No. 6, not again, not ever will our hospitals be taken for granted.  They should be classified as critical infrastructure and our healthcare  workers--our nurses, our lab technicians, our first responders, our  doctors. Critical infrastructure and frontline workers should be  properly resourced around our Nation. 

  No. 7, not again, not ever will Americans rely solely on the Centers  for Disease Control for testing. President Trump proved that when  called upon,  our private sector has an incredible multiplier effect. 

  No. 8, not again, not ever will we allow public misrepresentation and  confusion concerning an urgent health issue. The American people  deserve timely, credible, and accurate information--the same as for  tornadoes, hurricanes, and other disasters. 

  No. 9, not again, not ever will we be dependent on China for trade  and goods, especially not for critical infrastructure and technology. 

  No. 10, not again, not ever will a previous administration leave an  incoming administration without an updated, forward-looking bipartisan  policy and preparedness program on pandemics and without a pathway for  the products and equipment needed to go along with it. 

  By taking these sensible steps, we will be able to protect the health  and the well-being of the American people. These 10 priorities will  make America and Americans stronger, safer, and more secure. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT