Venezuela


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698571/venezuela


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise today having just come out of a  secure briefing about the arrest of Nicolas Maduro.

Our country has carried out one of the boldest law enforcement  operations in decades, and we should be very proud. We should celebrate  it and be proud of the men and women in uniform who made sure this was  successful. This administration had the courage to do what was right,  what needed to be done; and America, Venezuela, and the world are much  safer as a result of it.

Operation Absolute Resolve was conducted for one reason: to bring to  justice a murderous dictator and an indicted drug trafficker. Maduro is  an outlaw, and he is now in custody. The Trump administration indicted  him in 2020 on drug trafficking charges. President Trump put a $15  million bounty on him. The Biden administration agreed, and they  actually increased that amount to $25 million. Neither the first Trump  administration, nor the Biden administration, nor the current  administration recognized Maduro as the legitimate leader of Venezuela.

Now, we are not alone in that view. Many of our allies around the  world have taken the same position, hold the same belief. Yet only  America had the resolve and the resources to bring Maduro to justice.  No American lives were lost, as we learned in our briefing and as we  have seen, and it was a textbook example and demonstration of peace  through strength. The message to the entire world is clear: If you  poison and kill the American people, you are going to be held  accountable.

Arresting Maduro also advances America's national security. Maduro's  allies and enablers are united in their commitment to undermine our  Nation: China, Russia, Iran, Cuba, even Hezbollah. Communist China was  buying half a million barrels a day of oil from Venezuela--day after  day, after day. In exchange for that oil, the Chinese Communist Party  loaned Venezuela over $100 billion. Just hours before his arrest,  Maduro was meeting in Caracas with officials of the Chinese Communist  Party. This axis of aggression is weaker now because President Trump  has taken decisive action, and our men and women in uniform were able  to carry it out.

All around the world, people are seeing dictatorships failing. That  is why Venezuelans are celebrating in the streets today. It is also why  Iranians are uniting today across their country to protest the  suppressive dictatorship. They have good reasons to demand their  freedom.

Yet, today, there are Democrats in this Chamber--some may come to the  floor later today--who are using the arrest of Nicolas Maduro not to  advance American interests, no. They are using it to attack President  Trump. This week, they are going to force a vote on another War Powers  Resolution to tie the hands of the President. Let me be clear about  what that resolution does and what it does not do. It does not reassert  Congress's powers. It does not make America stronger. It makes America  weaker and less safe. It will weaken the President's legitimate  constitutional authority.

This body, the U.S. Senate, is being asked whether the President of  the United States has the authority to arrest indicted criminals. Of  course he does. Democrats want to weaken the President's ability to  enforce the law of the land. That is the wrong message to send to  hardened drug traffickers and to dictators.

It is interesting because, for years, Democrats were for holding  Maduro accountable. Senator Chris Murphy, a Democrat from Connecticut,  tweeted in 2019 that ``getting rid of Maduro is good for the United  States.'' That is one of the Democrats who are opposing what the  President of the United States has done. He called for it in the past.

Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, who will be on this  floor in a few minutes, came to this very floor in 2020 and complained  about President Trump, saying President Trump ``hasn't brought an end  to the Maduro regime.''

Senator Chris Van Hollen from the Foreign Relations Committee, a  Democrat from Maryland, told MSNBC just last year--he said:

[T]he United States needs to work with its partners and       allies in the region to ratchet up the pressure [on       Venezuela].

Democrats know absolutely that President Trump did the absolute right  thing. They won't admit it on this floor. They prefer to play politics  instead. Within the last several days, Senator Schumer called arresting  Maduro ``reckless.'' What a change and reversal in tune. Senator Van  Hollen said it was an illegal ``act of war,'' a complete reversal of  his previous positions.

Senator Murphy told CNN on Sunday that Venezuela, he said, is ``not a  security threat'' to the United States. He sure viewed it differently  in the past. Evidently, they were all for it before they were against  it. That is what we see with these Democrats: something they are for,  President Trump does it, and now they are against it.

The question I have for Democrats is, Do they no longer think that  arresting Maduro is a good thing? They supported it in the past--every  one of them.

Arresting Maduro was not partisan or political. It was a  professionally executed law enforcement action conducted by a superb  team of dedicated military professionals, and I congratulate each and  every one of them. Every parent in this country should be happy today  about this arrest because now their children will be safer from  poisoning and death. This arrest will save thousands of American  lives--lives that would have been lost due to Maduro's drug  trafficking.

And what are the numbers? Was it 80,000 American lives lost since  2020 as a result of the poison that Maduro has forced into this  country? On Saturday, President Trump took bold action, and he took  action to protect the citizens of this great country.

We should celebrate the success in Venezuela. We should take great  pride in the brave men and women who carried out the successful  mission. Republicans are going to continue to stand on the side of  safety, security, and America peace through strength.