Wyoming Servicemembers


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697356/wyoming-servicemembers


Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, each year, I look forward to spending  Thanksgiving with Wyoming men and women in uniform who are serving  overseas. I had the privilege of doing it again this year. This  Thanksgiving, I was with Wyoming airmen at Ramstein Air Base, which is  in Germany.

These young men and women came from Casper, Cheyenne, and Riverton,  serving our Nation. They are doing an outstanding job in their work and  supporting missions in Europe, in Asia, and in the Middle East. They  are a long way from home--eight time zones away from Wyoming--away from  family, away from friends, away for the holidays.

And I go every year, wherever I can find Wyoming troops, to thank  them for their service, to thank them for their commitment, to thank  them for what they do to keep us safe and to keep us free, and for the  sacrifices that they are making. And I also want them to know that the  people at home are thinking about them and know that they are a long  way from home and caring for all of us.

To me, they are heroes. They wear the uniform not for their safety  but for ours. We see it abroad, and we also see it at home.

And what we have seen at home is, since August, National Guard troops  have been deployed right here in Washington, DC. As a result,  Washington, DC, is safer for residents and for visitors, for people who  come from your State and from mine who want to come and see the  Nation's Capital. What we have seen since this has begun is that  the numbers of murders, rapes, and robberies have fallen dramatically.

Tragically, just 1 day before Thanksgiving, two members of the  National Guard were targeted. It was an ambush attack, and it happened  just blocks away from the White House. It was an act of terrorism. The  act was not only on our National Guardsmen; it was on our entire  Nation.

One of the servicemembers was Sarah Beckstrom. She was an Army  specialist from West Virginia. She died on Thanksgiving Day. She was  only 20 years old.

The other is Andrew Wolfe. He is a staff sergeant in the Air Force,  also from West Virginia, and is 24 years old. He remains hospitalized  in critical condition, fighting for his life.

We join all Americans in praying for them and their families.

The terrorist who attacked them was an Afghan national. He is one of  tens of thousands of Afghans who were flown into our country following  Joe Biden's disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan. We now know for a  fact that thousands of these individuals were not properly vetted.

I specifically questioned Joe Biden's Secretary of State, Antony  Blinken, here in the Senate about this, and I questioned him under  oath. Under oath, he testified--Joe Biden's Secretary of State--that  ``most of them were not'' vetted.

It didn't matter to Joe Biden. He waved them all into our country.

Republicans warned repeatedly that bringing people without proper  clearance from a war-torn country was a major national security risk.  The negligent Biden administration ignored the warning.

In 2021, 13 American heroes were killed in the botched withdrawal  from Kabul, Afghanistan. One of them was Wyoming's own Rylee McCollum.  He embodied the best of Wyoming. He was a marine. He joined the Marines  on his 18th birthday.

I spoke at his funeral. He was Wyoming's wrestling champion. He was  about to become a father. He was just 20 years old when he died. He was  the same age as Sarah Beckstrom from West Virginia.