Recognizing the 20th Anniversary of Operation Red Wings


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692903/recognizing-the-20th-anniversary-of-operation-red-wings


Mr. LUTTRELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the 20th  anniversary of Operation Red Wings, a mission carried out by United  States Navy SEALs and the Army 160th SOAR in June 2005 in the mountains  of Afghanistan.

Operation Red Wings was intended to disrupt anticoalition militia  activity in the Pech District of the Kunar Province. The primary target  was a high-ranking Taliban leader named Ahmad Shah.

To carry out the operations, a four-man reconnaissance team was  inserted into the rugged terrain under the cover of darkness. The team  consisted of Lieutenant Michael Murphy, Petty Officer Matthew Axelson,  Petty Officer Danny Dietz, and Petty Officer Marcus Luttrell. Their  mission was to observe and confirm the presence of Ahmad Shah.

Unfortunately, the team's position was compromised by local goat  herders. Faced with a difficult ethical decision, the SEALs let the  herders go. Within hours, they were surrounded and ambushed by a large  force of Taliban fighters.

Despite being heavily outnumbered and outgunned, the SEALs fought  valiantly. Michael Murphy, despite being shot, moved into the open to  get clear to make a call for backup. That call would cost him his life.  Matthew Axelson and Danny Dietz perished shortly after.

A Quick Reaction Force from the 160th SOAR dispatched a Chinook  helicopter to rescue the SEALs, but tragically the helicopter was shot  down by a rocket-propelled grenade, killing all 16 men on board. In  total, 19 Americans died in Operation Red Wings. It was one of the  deadliest days in special warfare history.

The mission is not just a story of loss; it is a powerful testament  to courage, brotherhood, and sacrifice.

The names of the men who lost their lives during Operation Red Wings  are: Petty Officer Matthew G. Axelson, Petty Officer Danny Dietz, Chief  Petty Officer Jacques Fontan, Staff Sergeant Shamus O. Goare, Chief  Warrant Officer Corey Goodnature, Senior Chief Petty Officer Dan Healy,  Sergeant Kip Jacoby, Lieutenant Commander Erik Kristensen, Petty  Officer 1st Class Jeffrey Lucas, Lieutenant Michael McGreevy, Sergeant  First Class Marcus Muralles; Lieutenant Michael Murphy; Petty Officer  Shane Patton, Master Sergeant James Ponder; Major Stephen Reich,  Sergeant First Class Michael Russell, Chief Warrant Officer Chris  Scherkenbach, Petty Officer James Suh, and Petty Officer Jeffrey  Taylor.

Mr. Speaker, may blessings go out to the Gold Star families and  friends on this day.