Recognizing Dr. Alisa White, President of Sam Houston State University


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691515/recognizing-dr-alisa-white-president-of-sam-houston-state-university


Mr. LUTTRELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize President Alisa  White of Sam Houston State University for her dedication, devotion and  leadership in service to Sam Houston State University, its students and  all Texans. Like Sam Houston himself, Dr. White saw Texas as a land of  promise, offering opportunities for bold enterprise and she is  delivering on that promise every day.

Assuming the role as President of SHSU in August of 2020, Dr. White  brought her leadership to the University in a time of disruption,  change and uncertainty in education. The COVID pandemic had rendered  the college experience unrecognizable. Finding a way through the  pandemic, protecting her students and maintaining excellence, President  White showed true leadership.

Dr. White is truly committed to Sam Houston's first-generation  college students and those coming to the school from low-income  households. In every conversation with Dr. White, she speaks of her  commitment to these students and to giving them the tools they need to  be successful. This led to the establishment of the First-Generation  Center to offer tailored resources and support to this cohort of  students.

Sam Houston has recently launched the Polytechnic College, known as  SamPoly. This initiative aims to provide students with practical,  industry-aligned education to meet the evolving demands of the  workforce. True to Dr. White's mission to provide opportunities for  students across multiple interests, SamPoly is breaking barriers to  education and leading to success for an ever-growing range of student  interests.

In tune with the needs of the country and the interests of the  students, President White has thrown her full support behind a new  commitment to Cyber Studies. Both degreed and certificate level  programs are growing at Sam Houston and the school is working with the  CIA, FBI, DHS and other agencies to create a pathway to jobs in this  fast-growing field.

Under her leadership, the SHSU College of Osteopathic Medicine is  making a name for itself in the medical field. Training predominantly  Primary Care Physicians, they will serve throughout Texas and the U.S.  in underserved communities. Since Dr. White coming to the helm, the  medical school secured an investment from the State of Texas for $32  million and an additional $23 million in pledges and gifts in 2023  alone.

It's not just in the classroom that Dr. White is making a difference.  On the fields and courts, and even on the beaches, with the  introduction of Beach Volleyball this year, Sam Houston students are  reaching new heights. Dr. White has brought her brand of energy to Sam  Houston State University and the feeling on campus is electric.

As a Sam Houston State University graduate, I Could not be prouder to  offer this commendation to my fellow Bearkat--Dr, Alisa White. Her  leadership and service to the University and to Texas are unrivaled.