-9999


Ms. LUMMIS. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Johnson for his  dedication to trying to pay the Federal workers who are being used in  what is a political battle--I want to excuse them from a partisan  political battle that is not of their making so they can go back to  work and serve the American people.

What we have here is a political standoff between Democrats and  Republicans in Congress. It has nothing to do with the air traffic  controllers. Some of them are Democrats, and some are Republicans. It  has nothing to do with any other essential or furloughed Federal  workers. Some of them are Democrats; some, Republicans.

Some of them probably agreed that we should shut down the government  so insurance companies can make billions more dollars off the American  taxpayers under ObamaCare. Some of them are Republicans and think that  we should open the government and work out this healthcare mess after  we open the government. Regardless of that, they are not in a position  to make those decisions. We are. We are.

So here we are in the longest shutdown in government history. The  Congress is responsible for it. It is political. It is not policy  driven. So since we are going to argue about politics and who is  winning and who is losing and who is setting themselves up to have the  next President or win the midterms instead of worrying about whether  the airways are safe, whether WIC is funded, whether SNAP is funded,  whether workers are funded, whether the military is funded; since we  are going to fight over who is going to win the election a year from  now, let's excuse the people who are not responsible for this  dysfunction from our dysfunction.

That is what Senator Johnson is trying to do.

Now, we all agree, Democrats and Republicans, that this is not fair  to Federal workers--people who are in the military, who are air traffic  controllers, who are essential, who are furloughed. It is not fair to  them. We all agree.

What Senator Johnson is doing is finding a way that we can be  together on a bipartisan basis, excuse the Federal workers from this  mess, let them be paid, and let us go on with our absurd, partisan,  political dysfunction if that is what we want.

If we want to fight about healthcare, it is my opinion that we ought  to do it after we fully open the government, but if we are not willing  to do that, let's at least let the Federal workers off the hook.

I applaud Senator Johnson. I applaud Senator Sullivan. I applaud  Senator Cruz.

We want to be able to keep Americans safe who are getting in  airplanes every day.

We want to keep Americans safe who are working in the military. They  don't make very much money, especially those young, first- and second- year military employees. Some of them have young families. Some of them  have spouses. So I am telling you, they don't make much money, and then  you withhold their pay. Those are the people that are working paycheck  to paycheck. Let them out of our political dysfunction. Don't make them  suffer for our political misfunction and dysfunction.

I want to also thank any Democrat who will listen and be  compassionate towards your Federal workers in your districts.

This is wrong for those of us--whether we disagree about healthcare  or not,  whether you want to fund billions of dollars to give to insurance  companies for a broken healthcare system--fine.

We can have that debate, but don't penalize the Federal workers for  our dysfunction, our disrespect for them.