Clear Communication for Veterans Claims Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689676/clear-communication-for-veterans-claims-act


Mr. BARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my very first  piece of legislation that I introduced as a Member of Congress, H.R.  1039, the Clear Communication for Veterans Claims Act.

This bipartisan bill, which I am proud to lead with Chairman Bost and  Representative Budzinski, the ranking member of the subcommittee that I  lead on Chairman Bost's committee, will make it easier for veterans to  access the care and benefits they have earned by making significant  improvements to our overly complicated claims process.

Mr. Speaker, you have already heard from other Members today about  issues with veterans filing claims and running into problems with  forms, legalese, bureaucratic speak, and things that are not easily  understood. I can tell you, I personally have seen this myself in  applications and interfacing I have had with the VA and challenges you  get when you receive things in the mail. It is hard to determine  whether this is an update on the claim that I have filed, a resolution  to that claim, or seeking more information, or is it simply a delay  saying that they don't have a resolution to the claim yet? It can be  very difficult to figure that out, especially if you have multiple  claims within the same packet.

When a veteran files a claim, it means they need help, yet too often  they receive long, confusing letters full of legal jargon that leaves  them with more questions than answers, ultimately leading them to call  into a claims center or a helpline, which overburdens that and slows  down the overall claims process.

This is unacceptable. Claims letters should be the catalyst to care  and benefits and not the obstacle.

That is where my bill comes in. H.R. 1039 requires the VA to make  these notices clear, concise, and easy to understand while also  streamlining the Department's overall communication with our veterans.

As you heard already, it requires the VA to partner with an outside  agency, not the bureaucrats within the VA, to make these communications  easier and more streamlined for veterans to understand. Often, when you  are working within the industry, it can be very difficult to put  yourself in the position of those receiving these letters to understand  what would be best absorbed by them.

Our veterans serve the United States military with honor. They  shouldn't need a lawyer or specially trained advocate to explain a  claims letter to them.

When I was elected to the State legislature in Michigan 10 years ago,  I became the only Iraq war veteran in the entire Michigan House of  Representatives. I worked closely with my Federal Members of Congress  to help veterans obtain their benefits.

I maintained then that if I were ever in a position to make the  process more streamlined and easier to understand, I would commit to  doing that. This very first bill in Congress makes good on that  commitment. I am proud to offer that today.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you and the rest of the Chamber for taking up  this bill for consideration. It is time to give America's heroes and  their families a clear and efficient claims process that actually works  for them. I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill that would  do just that.