Delivering Digitally to Our Veterans Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695436/delivering-digitally-to-our-veterans-act-of-2025


Mr. BARRETT. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3481, the  Delivering Digitally to Our Veterans Act.

This important legislation is a bipartisan effort to finally bring  the VA into the 21st century by changing the way veterans are notified  about their benefits.

Right now, under current statute, veterans across America are left  digging through the mail, often intermixed with junk mail and other  notices that they may receive, just to find important updates from the  VA, which often leads to things getting lost and delays in their  benefits.

In fact, it was not that long ago when I was in college and required  to manually call in to a hotline for the VA every month to notify them  that I was still a student enrolled in courses to receive my GI Bill  benefits.

H.R. 3481 fixes these issues by authorizing the VA to send GI Bill  and Solid Start updates to veterans digitally through their devices  that so many of us carry around every single day.

This is an opt-in program that doesn't obligate any veteran to do  this, but it is an easy and effective solution that will help veterans  take advantage of the benefits they need when transitioning back into  their communities after service.

As the chairman said, this is also supported by The American Legion,  the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Paralyzed Veterans of America  because they understand the importance of what we are trying to do in  this legislation.

By updating the way the VA communicates, we are guaranteeing veterans  receive convenient and timely updates wherever they are, on their  computer, phone, or tablet. Like so many students, they may live  remotely from their home address, which would prevent them from  receiving these updates.

It will also reduce postage costs, allowing the VA to spend money in  ways that better serve our Nation's heroes. It is a win-win overall.

Madam Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Mr. Van Orden and Mr. Tran, for  their help in introducing this bill as we continue to work to improve  the lives of veterans everywhere.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''