Mental Health in Aviation Act of 2025


Mr. BARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2591) to require the Administrator of the Federal Aviation  Administration to revise regulations for certain individuals carrying  out aviation activities who disclose a mental health diagnosis or  condition, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2591

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Mental Health in Aviation       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REGULATIONS FOR INDIVIDUALS CARRYING OUT AVIATION                     ACTIVITIES.

(a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal       Aviation Administration shall update regulations, including       in part 67 of title 14 of Code of Federal Regulations, as       appropriate, to encourage individuals to--

(1) seek help for mental health conditions or symptoms of       mental health conditions; and

(2) disclose conditions or symptoms described in paragraph       (1).

(b) Consultation; Report Requirements.--Section 411(d) of       the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024 (49 U.S.C. 44703 note(d))       is amended--

(1) in paragraph (4)--

(A) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``and'' at the end;

(B) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;

(C) in subparagraph (C) by striking the period at the end       and inserting a semicolon; and

(D) by adding at the end the following:

``(D) a review and evaluation of any recommendations       reached by the National Transportation Safety Board related       to aviation workforce mental health; and

``(E) a description of relevant clinical studies, research,       diagnostic manuals, and protocols used by the licensed       professionals as of the date of enactment of this Act.''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(5) Consultation.--In carrying out this subsection, the       task group shall consult with relevant stakeholders from the       aviation and medical communities, as necessary, including--

``(A) the certified exclusive bargaining representatives of       air traffic controllers of the Administration certified under       section 7111 of title 5, United States Code;

``(B) organizations representing certified collective       bargaining representatives of airline pilots;

``(C) aviation medical examiners, as described in section       183.21 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations; and

``(D) any other stakeholder determined relevant by the task       group, including any stakeholders described in paragraph       (3)(B).''.

(c) Implementation.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the       submission of the report required under section 411(f) of the       FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024 (49 U.S.C. 44703 note), the       Administrator shall take such actions as are necessary to       implement the mental health-related recommendations of such       report.

(2) Justification.--If the Administrator decides not to       implement any of the recommendations described in paragraph       (1), the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate       committees of Congress the justification for such decision.       SEC. 3. ANNUAL REVIEW OF MENTAL HEALTH SPECIAL ISSUANCE                     PROCESS.

The Administrator shall conduct an annual review, and       update, as appropriate, the applicable regulations, policies,       orders, and guidance on mental health-related special       issuance for pilots and air traffic controllers to--

(1) reclassify and approve additional medications that may       be safely prescribed to airmen to treat mental health       conditions;

(2) improve mental health knowledge and training for       aviation medical examiners;

(3) if the Administrator determines appropriate, delegate       additional authority to aviation medical examiners consistent       with the recommendation of the Mental Health Aviation       Rulemaking Committee described in section 5; and

(4) improve the special issuance process for pilots and air       traffic controllers.       SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION FOR ADDITIONAL                     AVIATION MEDICAL EXAMINERS.

Of the amounts made available pursuant to section 106(k)(1)       of title 49, United States Code, the Administrator shall set       aside $13,740,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2028       to--

(1) recruit, select, train, and delegate the necessary       authorities to additional aviation medical examiners and       human intervention motivation study aviation medical       examiners, including those who are psychiatrists;

(2) expand capacity to provide oversight of aviation       medical examiners and clear the backlog of special issuance       requests and cases awaiting review at the Office of Aerospace       Medicine; and

(3) support any other related activities, as the       Administrator determines appropriate.       SEC. 5. IMPLEMENTATION OF AVIATION RULEMAKING COMMITTEE                     RECOMMENDATIONS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall implement, to       the greatest extent practicable, the recommendations of the       Mental Health and Aviation Medical Clearances Aviation       Rulemaking Committee which were submitted to the       Administrator on April 1, 2024.

(b) Consultation.--In carrying out subsection (a), the       Administrator shall consult with the parties described in       section 411(d)(5) of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024 (as       added by this Act).

(c) Justification.--If the Administrator decides not to       implement any of the recommendations described in subsection       (a), the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate       committees of Congress the justification for such decision.       SEC. 6. PUBLIC INFORMATION CAMPAIGN.

(a) In General.--Of the amounts made available under       section 106(k)(1) of title 49, United States Code, the       Administrator shall set aside $1,500,000 for each of fiscal       years 2026 through 2028 for a public information campaign or       similar public education efforts to destigmatize individuals       in (or interested in joining) the aviation industry who seek       mental health care, to broaden awareness of available       supportive services, and establish trust with pilots and air       traffic controllers.

(b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the Administrator       creates the public information campaign described in       subsection (a), the Administrator shall submit to appropriate       committees of Congress a report describing the actions taken       to develop such campaign and the plans for implementation.       SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term       ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--

(A) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of       the House of Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation       of the Senate.

(2) Special issuance.--The term ``special issuance'' has       the meaning given the term in section 67.401 of title 14,       Code of Federal Regulations.

Mr. BARRETT.  2591, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2591, the Mental Health in  Aviation Act.

I thank Mr. Casten, Mr. Stauber, Ranking Member Larsen, and Mr. Mann  for their work on this legislation and leadership on this important  issue.

Mr. Speaker, one in four Americans today deal with mental health  challenges over the course of their lifetime. We need to make sure  pilots get the help they need and still keep flying.

This legislation is intended to reduce the barriers preventing  pilots, air traffic controllers, and other aviation professionals from  reporting and seeking mental health care.

The bill builds on the bipartisan work of the Transportation and  Infrastructure Committee from last Congress to hold the Federal  Aviation Administration accountable to Congress  and the Aeromedical Innovation and Modernization Working Group that we  created in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024.

Additionally, H.R. 2591 requires the FAA to annually review the  process of mental health-related special issuances for pilots and air  traffic controllers and strengthen the hiring of medical examiners to  clear the backlog of special issuance requests.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, mental health issues are often underreported, and many  times those who do not report an issue face difficulty accessing care  because of burdensome regulations and lengthy wait times for aviation  professionals to return back to work.

H.R. 2591 encourages and enables aviation professionals to report and  access critical mental health care. Additionally, this bill will  strengthen the FAA's hiring of medical examiners to help clear the  backlog of special issuance requests.

As you heard today, Mr. Speaker, this bill will keep pilots flying,  air traffic controllers working, and airspace safe while getting people  the help that they need.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.