Shared Property Agency Collaboration and Engagement Act of 2025


Mr. BARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3424) to require the Administrator of the General Services  Administration to collaborate with Federal tenants with respect to  shared-space arrangements, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3424

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Shared Property Agency       Collaboration and Engagement Act of 2025'' or the ``SPACE Act       of 2025''.       SEC. 2. GSA COLLABORATION WITH FEDERAL TENANTS.

(a) In General.--In carrying out section 2302 of the Thomas       R. Carper Water Resources Development Act of 2024 (40 U.S.C.       584 note), the Administrator of the General Services       Administration shall--

(1) collaborate with tenants of federally-leased space to       better identify concerns among Federal agencies around       shared-space arrangements;

(2) work to develop a criteria that would facilitate the       expanded use of space-sharing or collocating;

(3) identify how special-use spaces can be used to improve       space-sharing or collocating; and

(4) establish measurable objectives, in consultation with       the tenants of federally-leased space, to quantify the       success of shared-space arrangements among Federal agencies.

(b) Briefing.--Not later than 6 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and       Public Works of the Senate on the implementation of the       requirements described in subsection (a).

Mr. BARRETT.  3424.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3424, the Shared Property Agency Collaboration and  Engagement Act of 2025, or SPACE Act, directs the Administrator of the  Government Services Administration, the GSA, to work with Federal  tenants to develop a criteria that facilitates the expanded use of  space sharing or collocating.

This legislation also directs the GSA Administrator to establish  measurable objectives to quantify the success of the shared-space  framework.

The SPACE Act achieves this by building upon the important public  building reforms that the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee  made last Congress in the Thomas R. Carper Water Resources Development  Act of 2024.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Onder) for his  leadership on this bipartisan legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, this legislation will help improve the  Federal Government's use of shared space and save taxpayer dollars. By  building on the success of the last Congress, we can continue to  implement policies that ensure that we are good stewards of our  taxpayer resources and hold agencies accountable for the effective and  efficient use of our Federal real estate portfolio.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for H.R. 3424, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. BARRETT. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.