Alarm At the Trump Administration's Dangerous Attack on Education


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, Henry Peter Brougham once said,  ``Education makes a people easy to lead, but difficult to drive; easy  to govern but impossible to enslave.'' The Trump Administration's  deliberate evisceration of education--from preschool to higher  education--is a dangerous attack on our democracy that will damage our  people, communities, and country.

Given that education is a key factor in economic well-being, federal  education law promotes equity and access so that students from various  backgrounds can thrive. President Trump, with the help of Elon Musk, is  gutting the Department of Education under the false pretense of  returning power to the states which already have the primary  responsibility for public education.

In addition to cutting federal workers that oversee Head Start,  President Trump reportedly plans to eliminate Head Start in his FY26  Budget. Head Start reduces educational disparities so that lower-income  children enter school ready to learn. Gutting it directly harms over 1  million parents who rely on Head Start to work, over 800,000 children,  and tens of thousands of workers--undermining vulnerable children and  communities.

For K-12 education, Trump's actions jeopardize key programs that  improve educational success for low-income students and students with  disabilities. Contrary to federal law, Mr. Trump plans to withhold  Title I grants that help districts meet the educational needs of  students with limited financial means based on his personal whims about  curricular content. Title I assists 26 million children across the  nation and is a principal tool to address the disparities that impact  marginalized groups, such as Black and brown students. Further, the  Republicans Budget plans seek to dramatically cut education funding,  with Illinois at risk of losing approximately $793 million and 12,000  teachers. Further, Trump's cuts threaten the Individuals with  Disabilities Act (IDEA) that provides protection and funding for  students with disabilities. Illinois received one billion dollars in  IDEA funding in 2024 to strengthen education for our youngest  Illinoisans. Federal support is vital to providing students with an  educational foundation for success.

The attacks on higher education are equally devastating to the well- being of our citizens and economy, promoting a greater divide between  the haves and have nots. This Trump Administration seeks to slash key  federal programs that improve access to higher education, including  Pell Grants, loans, work-study, TRIO, GEAR UP, and CCAMPIS.  Approximately 45 percent of full-time Black students graduate from  public four-year colleges and universities within six years, with  finances playing a large role in this outcome. Stripping first- generation, low-income, or minority students of the few financial and  academic resources the government provides reduces college  affordability and, once again, places students who are already at a  disadvantage further from the finish line. In addition, he signed an  executive order refusing Public Service Loan Forgiveness to non-profits  that he does not like.

President Trump further is targeting higher education institutions as  if they were the enemy, withholding billions in research funds,  removing visas from students and faculty, illegally-halting grants, and  threatening to revoke their nonprofit status simply because their work  does not align with the President's agenda. Illinois is home to several  R1 institutions whose work revolves around studying underrepresented  populations that are impacted by these decisions. I helped expand these  federal education laws and research funding, and I will fight to  protect them.

The Trump-Musk administration and Congressional Republicans seek to  demolish the educational foundation of our country to fund tax handouts  for the wealthiest individuals and companies. I am especially appalled  by the President's myopic focus to write race, gender, and ability out  of history. We must remind ourselves that federal investment in  education fosters enrichment and equal opportunities. If we allow this  evisceration of education to continue, our country and students will  wither.