Healthcare is Real


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, the President and the  Congressional Republicans have passed a bill, the Big Ugly Bill and  signed into law on July 4, 2025 that would cut more than 1.5 trillion  dollars toward investing in our families, children, and seniors'  healthcare. In addition, purging 15 million Americans from insurance  coverage, denying Medicaid and SNAP benefits for the poor and needy and  diminishing funds to Medicare for the elderly, the disabled, and the  disease individuals who desperately need support to live.

As Americans face a Republican-manufactured health care crisis,  skyrocketing costs from Trump's tariffs and a weakening economy,  Republicans have refused to extend the Affordable Care Act premium tax  credits for working class families, which will expire December 31,  2025. I include in the Record a note from a constituent named Shemeka  who captures how devastating the loss of the enhanced tax credits will  be for her family.

``I am a single mother with a daughter who has just begun       her freshman year of college.

Access to healthcare is absolutely essential to me and my       family. I am a full-time employee in the inner city of       Chicago where wages are modest, however employer-paid       healthcare is not offered. Because of this, we rely on the       Marketplace for affordable health coverage. Even with a       budget focused solely on basic necessities, we are still       struggling to maintain affordable healthcare. The current       federal tax credits are what make it possible for us to have       even the most basic health insurance, and additional credits       are truly needed.

Without these federal tax credits, we would be placed in an       extremely vulnerable position. Accessing affordable       healthcare would become almost impossible, and the stability       of our lives would be at serious risk. These tax credits are       not just helpful they are essential. It is unimaginable to       consider life without them.

Thank you again for your leadership and for allowing me the       opportunity to lift my voice on this critical issue.''