In Honor of Charles Rangel


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, Representative Charlie Rangel was  a dear friend and mentor of mine. He was very engaged and responsible  for writing the Affordable Care Act and getting it passed.

Charlie was a great one.            Giving Tribute to Whitney M. Young Magnet High School

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I take this opportunity to pay  tribute to the Whitney M. Young Magnet High School and its  administrators, teachers, staff, parents, and especially students.

Whitney M. Young Magnet High School, located in Chicago, Illinois, is  a public, 4-year magnet high school known for its academic excellence  and selective enrollment. It offers an accelerated program, called the  Academic Center, for seventh and eighth graders. Admission is based on  entrance exams, standardized tests, and elementary school grades. The  school has a strong focus on developing well-rounded individuals with a  variety of performing  and fine arts programs alongside academic preparation.

The school is comprehensive and excels in athletics, as well. For  example, during the 2023-2024 school year, they were city champs in  boys' water polo, girls' basketball, girls' golf, girls' softball, and  girls' swim and diving. Whitney M. Young Magnet High School was also  the State champion in the Academic Decathlon during the last school  year.

While the school and its students have always been outstanding in the  world of academics, this year in 2025, for the first time in the  history of the school or any school that I know about in the city of  Chicago, 23 of its students achieved a perfect score on the ACT test.

Of course, the ACT is widely used in admission decisions and as a  predictor of college success. I am certain that, if the business, civil  rights, and National Urban League leader, Whitney M. Young, was alive  today, he would join with us to congratulate Principal Rickey Harris  and the entire Whitney M. Young Magnet High School community,  especially the 23 ACT perfect scorers, on this monumental  accomplishment.

Imagine 23 perfect scorers in one school and in one place. What an  accomplishment. What an achievement.

I congratulate Whitney Young students, and everybody associated with  this great accomplishment.