Opposition to President Trump's and Elon Musk's Theft of Social Security to Pay for Handouts to Billionaires


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, as a policymaker and citizen, I  unconditionally and absolutely reject President Trump's and Elon Musk's  work to steal American's Social Security benefits, a scheme that hurts  middle-class and working-class families and seniors to pay for tax  handouts to billionaires. When Americans already face increased prices  and economic hardship from the President's chaotic policies, Mr. Trump  threatens Social Security--the leading assistance program that 73  million Americans depend on for monthly assistance. This group includes  the more than 7 million seniors aged 65 or older for whom 90 percent of  their income is their earned Social Security benefits. Without Social  Security, 52.2 percent of older women would live in poverty. About 45  percent of Black seniors, 52 percent of Latino seniors, and 41 percent  of Asian-American seniors rely mostly or only on Social Security for  income. This effort to gut Social Security is an appalling illustration  of the highest level of greed, where billionaires rob from hard-working  Americans to augment their wealth.

By slashing staff, closing 6 out of 10 regional offices, cutting  customer service operations, restricting phone service assistance, and  spreading falsehoods about the Social Security Administration (SSA),  Trump and Musk jeopardize Americans' earned benefits and security. Let  me be clear--cuts to the Social Security Administration that prevent  beneficiaries from accessing their benefits are absolutely,  unequivocally backdoor benefit cuts. Seniors and people with  disabilities cannot get help by phone due to reduced phone service.  They can't get help by the website that frequently crashes and presents  access barriers to the elderly. Nor can they get help in person given  the increased distance to offices and longer wait times due to dramatic  staff cuts and office closures.

At the time when the greatest number of baby boomers are retiring and  need the most help and when SSA already is at its lowest staffing level  in decades, it is unconscionable that the Republicans seek to gut  Social Security and throw seniors, orphans, and those with disabilities  into poverty. All baby boomers will be 67 by 2031. So we are in the  peak period of retirement. I introduced the Keeping Our Field Offices  Open Act as an essential step to protecting Social Security benefits  for the 1 in 5 Americans who need these community offices. Field  offices serve as a lifeline for seniors and people with disabilities,  giving the in-person assistance to ensure they receive their correct  benefits. In my Congressional District alone, 68,550 retired workers,  12,772 disabled workers, and 5,239 widowers or parents receive critical  Social Security benefits. An additional 25,000 receive Supplemental  Security Income to pay their bills and survive. These constituents rely  on field offices when they need help. Field offices are not extra or  fluff; they are crucial.

I also must refuse the default Republican Social Security ``reform''  of raising the retirement age to 70 given that it would  disproportionately harm Black men and communities of color who have  lower life expectances. Systematic inequalities in socioeconomic  status, education, food security, and access to healthcare play an  intricate role in life expectancy. The life expectancy for Black men is  age 72.8, in contrast to 77.5 for White men. All Americans should  equitably reap the earned benefits of their tireless labor.

With fewer than 100 days in office, President Trump has already  caused tremendous harm to Social Security, jeopardizing the well-being  of tens of millions of seniors, veterans, and people with disabilities.  This assault on Social Security is an assault on our nation's most  vulnerable and least secure. Across the nation, this damage is in  addition to his erratic  and senseless tariffs and the dramatic reductions or eliminations of  essential supports for housing, healthcare, food, and education and so  much more. These policies threaten the livelihoods of individuals and  our nation's economy--all so the obscenely wealthy grow more secure  while condemning the majority to a precarious existence, defenseless  against life's unpredictability and wholly susceptible to exploitation  and despair. I will fight with every ounce of my being to oppose  President Trump's and Elon Musk's theft of Social Security and the  Republican effort to cripple Americans for their greed.