Recognizing Mrs. Essie Pough


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to recognize and  honor Mrs. Essie Pough, one of my constituents from Oak Park, Illinois  as she prepares to celebrate her 100th birthday on February 11, 2026.  Reaching the age of ``five score'' is a testament to a century of  grace, wisdom, endurance and love. That said, on behalf of the 7th  District of Illinois, I congratulate and commend Mrs. Pough on this  incredible milestone.

Born in rural Mississippi in 1926, Mrs. Pough migrated alongside her  husband from the south to Chicago's West Side neighborhood of ``K- Town'', where together they built a strong foundation and lovingly  raised their eight children anchored in faith, hard work and respect  for others. During her early years in Chicago's West Side, Mrs. Pough  found her spiritual home at United Missionary Baptist Church. She was  an active and dedicated member for over 50 years at United Missionary,  enjoying the choir and participating in various church activities.

After attending Jones Commercial in downtown Chicago, Mrs. Pough  began her career at the Illinois Department of Public Aid, which later  became the Illinois Department of Human Services. Mrs. Pough worked for  the Department for nearly 47 years and was known for providing stellar  customer service and professional assistance to the clients she served.  In fact, Mrs. Pough's dedication to her profession led her to learn to  speak Spanish in order to better serve the Spanish speaking residents  of Humboldt Park, which is just one example of how she would go above  and beyond the call of duty in her illustrious public service career.

Throughout her life, Mrs. Pough remained committed to service by  advocating for causes such as voting rights, civic engagement, and  youth development. Mrs. Pough is truly an example of a life lived  fully. She has been blessed to break bread with First Lady Michelle  Obama and to cast her vote for Harold Washington, Chicago's first Black  mayor and for Barack Obama, Americas first Black President-- achievements she believed she would never witness in her lifetime, but  indeed she did. Defying age, at 94 years old, Mrs. Pough wrote and  recorded her debut song entitled ``Jesus Reigns Forever,'' earning  national spotlight on NBC, CBS and Fox News in 2020.

Till this day, Mrs. Pough remains a vibrant and active member of her  community, enjoying gardening, bowling, reading her bible and  worshipping at the Living Word Christian Center, in Forest Park  Illinois. Above all else, Mrs. Pough's greatest life joy continues to  be her legacy of 8 children, 19 grandchildren, 25 great-grandchildren,  and 26 great-great-grandchildren.

Mr. Speaker, I consider it both an honor and privilege to celebrate  the 100th birthday of Mrs. Essie Pough and commend her for an  extraordinary life of service, faith, perseverance, and love.