Ending of Dei Programs Through Executive Order


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690322/ending-of-dei-programs-through-executive-order


Mr. FIELDS. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to talk about something that  happened on January 20.

On January 20, the President of the United States took the oath of  office at this Capitol. Shortly thereafter, he signed several executive  orders.

One executive order was Executive Order No. 14151. That executive  order ended all DEI programs. The argument that DEI initiatives  constitute reverse discrimination fundamentally misunderstands both the  history and the purpose of these programs.

DEI initiatives emerged as thoughtful, evidence-based responses to  documented inequities suffered by rural communities, minorities, women,  the poor, and the disabled. These programs represent America at its  best, acknowledging our Nation's shortcomings and tireless work to  overcome them.

The ratification of the 14th Amendment in 1868 codified equal  protection as a constitutional principle. Yet, Americans soon  discovered that simply declaring equal protection didn't automatically  create it.

The real challenge was in translating these legal guarantees into  everyday justice through their implementations. When the landmark  Supreme Court decisions in 2023 and 2024 further restricted race- conscious university admissions and workplace policies, they  accelerated a retreat from this understanding.

The history of DEI efforts in America is not some partisan agenda. It  is part of our Nation's ongoing work to ensure that America's promise  extends to every American. In 2025, as we face renewed attacks on these  principles, we must renew our commitment to this work.

Let me be clear: Diversity, equity, and inclusion are not about  guarantees and preferences; they are about removing barriers. They are  not about lowering standards; they are about ensuring that the  standards we apply don't inadvertently favor some groups while  disadvantaging others who are equally qualified.

When our military, for example, embraced diversity and inclusion, it  didn't become weaker. It became the most formidable fighting force in  human history.

When our businesses embraced diverse talents and perspectives, they  didn't become less competitive. They gained access to broader markets  and built the strongest economy in the world.

When our universities created more inclusive learning environments,  they didn't sacrifice excellence. Instead, they became global leaders  in research and education.

The world is always watching us to see what we will accomplish, but  now more than ever before, they are watching us to see who we will  become.

I still believe in an America where a child's potential isn't limited  to his ZIP Code, the color of his skin, their gender, or other factors  beyond their control.

I believe in an America where we can acknowledge our imperfect past  while working together toward a more perfect future.

Most of all, I believe in the fundamental goodness and fairness of  the American people.

When we move beyond slogans, when we truly see each other as fellow  citizens on one shared journey, we find that what unites us is far  greater than what divides us.

While the temptation is great, we cannot let this moment divide us.  We were never meant to be the divided States. We were created as and  have thrived for over 250 years as the United States.

Mr. FIELDS. Mr. Speaker, one of the problems I think that many people  have with DEI programs--which is one of the same problems they had with  affirmative action, if you recall--they viewed it as two parallel  lines, where you took a person who was less qualified and you elevated  him to the level of somebody who was more qualified.

That is not DEI. That was not affirmative action. Instead, people  should look at it as a circle and every single person within the circle  are all qualified to do the job, but there is just one single problem:  There are folks in the circle, although they are qualified, they never  get chosen. There are women in the circle who never get chosen simply  because they are female. Hispanics, Blacks in the circle don't get  chosen simply because of the color of their skin. People need to view  it as: Everybody in the circle is qualified, but DEI comes in and grabs  people who are not chosen only because of the color of their skin or  because of their sex.

Mr. FIELDS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks.

What is interesting is when the President signed that executive order  to do away with three words: diversity, equity, and inclusion, it sent  universities in a tailspin. They didn't know what to do. In fact, the  President himself ended a program--and I am glad the gentleman from  Illinois serves on the Agriculture Committee. I am glad that you and  others wrote letters and he restored the program that gave  young scholars scholarships to go to college, 1890 universities. He  said that it was a DEI program, and then later he reversed it. It was a  program where these kids had to score high scores on the ACT in order  to qualify. They had to have high GPAs.

Not to mention the impact it has had on businesses. There are  businesses that have ended their DEI programs simply because of that  executive order.

Mr. FIELDS. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. FIELDS.