Fighting Voter Suppression


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689340/fighting-voter-suppression


Mr. FIELDS. Mr. Speaker, let me thank the gentlewoman from Virginia  and the gentleman from South Carolina for organizing this Special Order  at a very important time.

Before the 14th Amendment, I was considered three-fifths of a man. It  was not until 1870, through the ratification of the 15th Amendment,  that I received the right to vote. It wasn't until 1920, through the  passage of the 19th Amendment, that women received the right to vote.

Despite all men and women having the full Federal right to vote by  1920, States still devised schemes to impose draconian restrictions to  prevent voter registration for people of color.

These restrictions were Jim Crow laws. I never understood it, but in  1988, when I ran for office for the first time, I wanted my grandmother  to vote for me. I was leading folk to the polls to register to vote,  and I tried to get my grandmother to go. I said, ``Grandmother, why in  the world would you not go to vote for your grandson?'' She said to me,  ``Sit down, son. Let me just tell you a story.'' She went to register  to vote, and they gave her a literacy test. She had to state the  preamble to the Constitution, my grandmother, in Louisiana.

I finally got her to register to vote, and she voted until she  passed.

They gave them tests like citizen tests, voucher tests. They had to  get other people to vouch for them. In Louisiana, we had something  called all-White primaries, which meant Blacks could not even vote in  primary elections.

One of the first successes we have had in the battle of voting rights  was  in 1944 with the Supreme Court decision of Smith v. Allwright when they  outlawed White-only primaries.

Following this decision, Black voter registration went up. It moved  from 1,000 in 1944 to 120,000 in 1952 and 160,000 in 1956.

Despite some legal progress, Jim Crow laws were still alive and well  in Southern States. Substantial progress was made through the Voting  Rights Act of 1956, 1957, and 1960, which authorized the United States  Attorney General to file lawsuits on behalf of Americans who were  denied the right to vote and gave them the ability to investigate  threats on civil rights.

A watershed moment occurred when we passed the 1964 Voting Rights Act  and the 1965 Voting Rights Act, which made Jim Crow practices and  discrimination illegal. Thank God for subsection 5. I will take a  moment of personal privilege to talk about that subsection because it  really affected me.

Every law that was passed in my State of Louisiana had to be  precleared by the Justice Department, and then there was a challenge to  that, Shelby v. Holder.

Every progress we have made, all the sacrifices all the leaders have  made, like John Lewis, Martin Luther King, Shirley Chisholm, and Jesse  Jackson, they kept making these pushes because they knew it was a hard  time for people.

Lastly, let me just tell you, these State laws are real. Last year, I  served as a member of the Louisiana State Senate, and several attempts  were made to make it more difficult on a State level for people to  register to vote: S. 226 dealt with absentee ballots, and it required  you to put your mother's maiden name on your voter application or your  vote would be thrown out. S. 218 prohibits individuals from assisting  elderly people in registering to vote.

I say to you, Mr. Speaker, Congress should advance legislation like  the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote  Act to increase equal access across the voting ballot.