American Music Tourism Act of 2025


Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 617, the American  Music Tourism Act.

Madam Speaker, I know Republicans want to pretend like it is business  as usual around here, but the daily chaos and illegal activity that we  are seeing from the Trump administration is not business as usual.

The reality is that 15 of the 16 bills we are considering today from  the Committee on Energy and Commerce, including this one, should  already be law. They were already agreed to last year as part of a  bipartisan, bicameral legislative package that was set to be passed and  signed into law in December before Elon Musk intervened and killed the  agreement.

That package included important provisions that would have lowered  costs for hardworking Americans, but instead of passing it and sending  it to the President's desk to be signed into law, my Republican  colleagues allowed Elon Musk to decide what becomes law.

What is especially upsetting about this is that my Republican  colleagues know this was a good agreement that would have helped  people. It included provisions to lower prescription drug prices, crack  down on junk fees, lower gas prices, ensure our water is safe to drink,  and fund community health centers and teaching health centers. Instead,  Speaker Johnson chose to cave to Elon Musk.

Though it may be delayed, I am pleased to be supporting the passage  today of the American Music Tourism Act. Americans are fortunate to  have a rich musical heritage. Throughout the United States, you can  find countless venues where talented musicians perform. These venues  attract millions of people from around the country and the world who  want to see their favorite artists or visit the place where famous  musicians have launched their careers, all of which contribute  significantly to our local communities.

Music and musical venues are very important to my district in New  Jersey. Asbury Park has been the home of the legendary Stone Pony for  over 50 years, one of the places where New Jersey's famous son, Bruce  Springsteen, got his start. Redbank, New Jersey, is the site of the  Count Basie Theatre named in honor of William ``Count'' Basie, who  revolutionized jazz music and whose legacy continues through the  theater, which continues to support and inspire new generations of  local musicians.

This is why I am pleased to support the American Music Tourism Act.  This bill would direct the National Travel and Tourism Office to  promote domestic and international travel and tourism to U.S. venues  like The Stone Pony and the Count Basie Theatre. It will help expand  the already significant economic contributions that these venues bring  to our local and national economies.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Barragan for her leadership on  this issue and encourage my colleagues to support this legislation.

These bills, for the most part, that we are going to be considering  today were part of that original package that Elon Musk negated, but we  are going to try to move those bills today despite what he did to try  to scuttle everything.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, this bill, as I said, was part of that  bipartisan package that we had hoped would be passed last December but  for Elon Musk.

This bill is important. I know that back in Asbury Park, in  particular, they will be very happy to know that our Congress is paying  so much attention to American music tourism.

Mr. Speaker, I ask for support on both sides of the aisle for the  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.