Awning Safety Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 1767, the Awning  Safety Act.

In 2019, the Consumer Product Safety Commission issued a recall of  270,000 motorized awnings sold in the United States that had caused six  injuries and, tragically, one death. While I commend the CPSC for  taking action to protect Americans from this hazardous product, we must  do more to ensure that awning products available to consumers are safe,  regardless of brand or manufacturer. American families should be able  to enjoy the shade without fear of injury or death from the awning that  they use.

Now, the Awning Safety Act would require the CPSC to create a safety  standard for fixed and freestanding retractable awnings. While the CPSC  has taken action through individual recalls on occasion, there is no  voluntary or mandatory standard to these awnings, and injuries continue  to mount.

In 2023, Dr. Michael Hnat was the father of a former committee  Republican staffer, and I believe that she is in the gallery today with  her mother. Dr. Hnat was tragically killed as the result of an accident  involving a retractable awning. We must act to ensure that other  American families do not suffer a similar tragedy because of problems  with retractable awnings.

However, compliance with this bill depends on the existence of a  strong, bipartisan, and independent CPSC to protect Americans from  unsafe products. At the same time as my Republican colleagues praise  this bill, they have continued to remain silent on President Trump's  willingness to risk the safety of American children and families by  attempting to unlawfully remove Democratic CPSC commissioners and  planning to eliminate the CPSC altogether.

I am pleased a district court recently upheld the law and reinstated  the Democratic commissioners to their posts, but the Trump  administration is  fighting that ruling. I remain deeply concerned about this  administration's attempt to eradicate the independence of the CPSC and  other independent agencies like the CPSC.

I also strongly oppose the Trump administration's ongoing plans to  fold the CPSC's mission into the Department of Health and Human  Services with a smaller budget, fewer expert staff, and a narrower  mission.

American consumers deserve to have peace of mind that the products  they bring into their homes are safe. I commend Representatives Castor  and Balderson for their work and leadership on this issue. I urge my  colleagues to support H.R. 1767, the Awning Safety Act, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, obviously, this is an important bill from a  consumer safety point of view. I urge all my colleagues to support it,  and I yield back the balance of my time.