Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I thank Ranking Member DeLauro and Chairman  Cole for their hard work.

I rise in support of this Consolidated Appropriations Act. As  Republicans continue to slash healthcare, drive up healthcare costs for  millions of Americans, and double down on their big, ugly bill that  cuts a trillion dollars from our healthcare system, Democrats are  fighting to lower healthcare and prescription drug prices for everyday  Americans.

Today, we are finally considering priorities Democrats fought for,  including authorization of policies and increased funding for important  programs. Community health centers, hospitals that care for underserved  communities, and teaching health centers will all benefit from these  Democratic initiatives in the bill.

The healthcare package includes increased funding for the World Trade  Center Health Program, which will ensure our first responders and  survivors get the care and treatments we as a Nation promised them.

Democrats also fought to lower prescription drug prices by cracking  down on unfair practices by pharmacy benefit managers, as well as  guaranteeing access to no-cost generic medications for low-income  seniors and people with disabilities on Medicare.

This healthcare package had bipartisan support and was included in an  omnibus appropriation bill last year or a year ago and was suddenly  yanked by Republicans because of a tweet by Elon Musk when he was in  the President's graces. I am glad to see it will finally pass as part  of the Consolidated Appropriations Act today.

Unfortunately, Mr. Chair, Republican leaders refused to include the  Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax credits in this bill, which  passed the House overwhelmingly earlier this month. I urge our Senate  Republican colleagues to stop stalling and extend the ACA subsidies  immediately to lower healthcare costs for millions of Americans who are  bearing the brunt of the Republican healthcare crisis.