Global Investment in American Jobs Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 1679, the Global  Investment in American Jobs Act. This legislation will encourage  foreign direct investment to support high-quality American jobs.

Foreign direct investment from nonadversarial Nations can be used to  grow critical sectors important for our economic success and national  security including by creating new jobs in our Nation's manufacturing  sector.

Once the envy of the world, our manufacturing base has faced steady  headwinds for the last several decades. Our Nation's share of global  manufacturing activity declined from 28 percent in 2002 to just over 17  percent in 2020.

Investment in America's small and medium manufacturers, the bedrock  of our industrial might, has also declined over the last 20 years by  more than $200 billion. In that same two-decade period, our domestic  manufacturing base has shed more than 4 million jobs.

It is time to reverse these trends by revitalizing our Nation's  manufacturing industry and bringing jobs back home. The work we did  under the Biden administration, passing the bipartisan infrastructure  law, Inflation Reduction Act, and the CHIPS and Science Act, is already  helping to turn the tide.

I am concerned that actions by the Trump administration are putting  this great success at risk. The attempts to claw back these historic  investments in our manufacturing sector, unstable and erratic tariff  policies, and mass elimination of trusted Federal programs and partners  put American businesses at a disadvantage.

All of these actions by the Trump administration are detrimental to  our ability to compete globally. I encourage my Republican colleagues  to stand up for American businesses, large and small, against the  chaotic actions of this administration.

Foreign direct investment can be part of the solution to revitalize  American manufacturing and job creation. Over a third of all foreign  direct investments are in domestic manufacturing, exceeding a total of  $120 billion a year.

This bill will help ensure we keep that flow of investment strong and  that such investments support quality, good-paying jobs right here at  home. It must be coupled with Federal trade policies coming from the  White House and this Congress that encourages stability in the  marketplace, protects our relationships with close trading partners,  and lowers costs for American families.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Representatives Kelly and Evans for their  leadership on this issue. I urge my colleagues to support this  legislation.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I know in my district that foreign direct  investment is important in creating jobs. I would certainly say that  nationally this is an important piece of legislation. For that reason,  I urge my colleagues to support it.