Mikaela Naylon Give Kids A Chance Act


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the sponsor of this legislation on  the Democratic side, the gentlewoman from Michigan (Mrs. Dingell), for  yielding.

I rise today in support of this legislation, the Mikaela Naylon Give  Kids a Chance Act, sponsored by Representatives Dingell and McCaul.

This bill includes several strong, bipartisan pieces of legislation  to help expand access to care for patients with rare diseases and  complex medical needs. It increases research and development into rare  pediatric diseases, improves regulatory certainty, strengthens the  medical product supply chain, and enhances patient access to lower-cost  medicines.

This bill will help in our efforts to bring new treatments to  pediatric patients with more advanced forms of cancer. It also includes  important enforcement authority for the Food and Drug Administration to  take action against companies that do not conduct required studies for  pediatric patients.

The bill also includes critical language to clarify the FDA's long- held treatment of orphan drug exclusivity and bring new treatments to  more patients suffering from rare diseases. It will also allow for  disclosure of certain information related to drug formulations to  generic drug manufacturers to bring lower-cost medications to patients  more quickly.

These provisions all advance our goal of accelerating the development  of novel, safe, effective, and affordable treatments while improving  outcomes for patients.

I am also pleased that the legislation provides the Health Resources  and Services Administration, or HRSA, with the authority to modernize  the organ transplant system. This language will allow HRSA to collect  registration fees and distribute them among the multiple contractors  that will be supporting the OPTN. The system is lifesaving for  Americans, and I am glad that we can continue to support these much- needed reform efforts.

Mr. Speaker, this bill also includes important provisions to ensure  that our medical product supply chain can be strengthened by working  with international partners that believe in both tolerance and respect  for every person, as well as advancement of science and medicine.

As a whole, this bill is going to make a difference, but I continue  to believe that additional guardrails are needed for the PRV program to  function the way Congress intended it to.

Previous reports from the Government Accountability Office on the  program and continued research from academics show that there is little  evidence that it incentivizes the products that Congress intended to  help come to market.

This is especially concerning as the FDA has introduced a new  priority review program with potentially massive financial benefits for  pharmaceutical companies without any transparency or congressional  authorization. That is why I am pleased that this bill includes a  requirement for the GAO to conduct a new study and report on the  effectiveness of the PRV program in achieving our original intent.

Let us not overstate the impact of this bill, however. While we are  working together to advance the bill forward on incremental but  important bipartisan legislation to advance both drug discovery and  drug affordability, the Trump administration continues its devastating  attacks on public health, including in cancer research.

The Trump administration's substantial cuts to research funding for  the biomedical community is chilling the innovation that we are trying  to promote through this bill.

The Trump administration is decimating research and endangering the  pipeline of new cancer therapies that could come to FDA for approval.  Their actions are putting patients at risk and leaving pediatric  patients without the treatments that we are trying to ensure can be  tested and brought to them.

Meanwhile, the Trump administration is using the FDA as a tool to  provide lucrative gifts to drugmakers and allies of President Trump,  undermining the Agency's science-based review process, and endangering  the health of the American public with potentially unsafe and rushed  drug reviews.

The Trump administration is also decimating our vaccine  infrastructure, from the programs that cover our vaccines and ensure  that patients can afford them to destroying the pipeline to future  vaccines through their ideological, pseudoscience agenda.

Mr. Speaker, one day, I hope that my Republican colleagues will join  us in calling on the Trump administration to reverse these terrible  policies that are only harming the public health.