National Coal Council Reestablishment Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3015. This bill would  require the Department of Energy to reestablish the National Coal  Council, something that President Trump already did 3 months ago.

It goes further than that. House Republicans don't just want to  reestablish the National Coal Council. They want it to play by  different rules than the 27 other advisory councils that the Department  of Energy maintains by making it permanent.

Of course, they offer no justification as to why this council and  only this council is special. There isn't one.

I also want to point out that among DOE's other 27 advisory councils,  not a single one is focused on clean energy. There is no solar council,  no wind council, no battery council, and not even a geothermal energy  council. All of those could be very useful.

Instead of using their floor time to prompt the Department to develop  a council for some of our cheaper, cleaner energy, Republicans are  focused on giving coal special treatment. Frankly, it is ridiculous. I  think it is a waste of time.

Mr. Speaker, the country is in turmoil. We are facing a national  healthcare crisis. Republicans are actively taking healthcare away from  millions of Americans. Meanwhile, millions more are about to watch  their healthcare premiums skyrocket and their local hospitals close,  not to mention the astronomical cost of living that is rising more and  more each day, thanks to Trump's tariffs.

Rather than addressing one of these real crises, Republicans have us  wasting time on a bill that would order the DOE to do something it has  already done.

Republicans could be using the floor time to ensure millions of  Americans don't get priced out of their healthcare plans. They are not  doing that.

Republicans could use floor time to rein in Trump's tariffs, which  are projected to cost hardworking families thousands of dollars each  year. They are not going to do that.

Republicans could use floor time to pass an energy policy that would  bring electricity bills down. Clearly, they are not doing that.

The reason is simple. Republicans care more about signaling their  love of coal than they care about fighting for hardworking families  struggling to make ends meet. They don't care about the hardworking  families who are trying to make ends meet. They are just signaling that  they love coal.

That is particularly shameful when we consider coal consumption has  declined by nearly two-thirds since its peak in 2007. Instead of  celebrating the newer sources of cleaner and cheaper energy,  Republicans are frantically trying to turn back the clock and ignore  Americans' pleas for real and meaningful help in the process.

Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to this bill and to this massive waste  of time. It is completely meaningless. I hope they will do something  else.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, once again, I yield such time as she may  consume to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Castor), who is our  ranking member of the Energy Subcommittee.

Mr. PALLONE.  Matsui), who is the ranking member of  our Subcommittee on Communications and Technology.

Mr. Speaker, I have heard my colleagues on the other side talk about  how long it takes to bring energy plants or energy sources online. I  have heard about the suggestion that the Democrats are trying to close  fossil fuel plants.

President Trump is a President who, in the 8 months now since he has  been President, has proceeded to try to cut off almost any source of  clean energy. Just a few weeks ago, he announced that he was going to  stop the offshore wind projects that were over 90 percent constructed  in Rhode Island. He has done the same throughout the eastern seaboard.

I think it was the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Guthrie) who said  that it takes a long time to build these energy facilities, and either  the gentleman or one of the other Republicans today said that  Republicans favor all of the above, which means that the majority  favors fossil fuels, would like to see clean energy, and would like to  see nuclear energy, presumably.

Mr. Speaker, that is not what we are getting. That is not what we are  getting from the Trump administration. That is not what we are getting  with these bills. Everything favors fossil fuels. Every effort is being  made by this President to cut off clean energy, not only windmills but  also solar, et cetera.

The bottom line is that everything is being done to prioritize dirty  fuels, in particular, whether it is coal, oil, or whatever it is, at  the expense of clean energy.

Clean energy is cheaper. Even if my colleagues didn't believe that,  we need more energy, regardless of the source. Why would Republicans  want to just cut off offshore windmills in Rhode Island that are over  90 percent complete? It makes no sense unless they are trying to favor  the oil and gas and the fossil fuel interests.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans say that they want to save the coal  industry. Secretary Wright recently implied that he doesn't want a  single fossil fuel plant to close.

This is ridiculous for several reasons, the most important being that  keeping these plants open is more expensive than building new sources  of clean energy. The proof is really in the pudding here. The Trump  Department of Energy recently forced two fossil fuel plants that were  days away from retiring to remain open and is directly forcing  homeowners hundreds of miles away from these plants to pay to keep the  plants online.

The Consumers coal plant in Michigan was slated to close and save  Michigan residents $600 million on their power bills, but Donald Trump  pulled the rug out from everyone and, instead, is increasing families'  power bills.

The administration pulled the same trick with the Eddystone oil and  gas plant in Pennsylvania, where two units that were nearly 60 years  old were set to expire. Pennsylvania's grid operator determined that  taking the plants out of service would not impact grid reliability, but  President Trump didn't care. The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission  chairman noted that ``the price tag for consumers could grow quickly.''

Consumers aren't getting a say in this process. President Trump  dictates that a coal plant stays online, and homeowners have to pay for  it.

A recent study by Grid Strategies found that, if the administration  refused to let a single fossil fuel plant close, Americans would be on  the hook for $6 billion per year and increased costs by the end of the  Trump administration.

Republicans' obsession with coal is going to cost Americans billions  of dollars and pollute our air and water for nothing except some  additional cash for Republicans' friends in the coal industry. It is  really a rotten deal for the average American.

Mr. Speaker, I also want to say in opposition to this bill that  Republicans claim that the National Coal Council is so important that  it demands floor time in the House of Representatives, even though the  President has already reestablished it. We could be passing legislation  to lower energy costs or avoid a spike in health insurance premiums  instead.

If Republicans believed that the National Coal Council is such a  priority, then surely the Trump administration does, as well. Yet, the  Trump administration has let the National Coal Council languish for 3  months. They reestablished it back in June. It hasn't met. No one has  been appointed to lead the council. Remember, those positions don't  require a Senate confirmation or even consultation with the Office of  Presidential Personnel.

There are no meetings scheduled. It should at least have some members  if Republicans think that it is important. Unfortunately, none of those  things has happened.

If you look on the website for the National Coal Council, it says  that all of this is coming soon: members, meetings, or whatever. That  is like the neighborhood coffee shop not quite ready to open to  visitors. They put up a ``coming soon'' sign.

The reality is that all of this is a charade. Republicans can try to  sell to donors that they are rescuing the coal industry, but in fact,  they are doing nothing, not even with the National Coal Council.

It is not like it was that great under the previous Trump  administration, either. The National Coal Council operated in the  previous Trump administration as some kind of bizarre organization that  was intertwined with a trade association that went by the same name,  funded by private contributions from companies that made up the real  government coal council.

It got so bad that a Federal judge found that the shadowy trade  association was the alter ego of the real coal council, with no clear  lines of separation between the Federal entity and its mirror image.

Official Coal Council events were funded by the trade association. At  a meeting of the government's Coal Council, a speaker called upon  members to become dues-paying members of the trade association.

You can't make this stuff up. You really can't. This idea that the  National Coal Council will be important and that anyone really cares  about it is just a joke. The Trump administration obviously doesn't  think the National Coal Council is important. The last time it existed,  it didn't even seem to do anything.

I don't understand the point of advancing a bill to reconstitute it  without adding guardrails to prohibit the mixing of industry priorities  with legitimate research. This is what the court pointed out to us.

I only mention these things because I am trying to emphasize that  this bill is a complete waste of time and a disservice to our  constituents that we are even here talking about it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to the bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.