Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this trio of pro-polluter  bills that we are debating today. These bills just double down on the  Trump administration's commitment to raising American electricity  prices by discriminating against clean, cheap energy. They prove that  Republicans have never been for an all-of-the-above energy strategy and  that they don't care about fixing the insanely high cost of living that  is crushing families across this country right now.

The only thing Republicans care about is making their fossil fuel  friends even richer.

All of this comes a few months after Republicans passed their big,  ugly bill. That law will cause Americans' utility bills to go up by  about nearly $300 per year. That is on top of the nearly $29 billion in  electricity bill rate hikes that utilities have requested just since  the start of President Trump's term. All this from a President who  promised to cut Americans' electricity bills in half. That is just one  of President Trump's broken promises.

President Trump and House Republicans also claim to care about China,  particularly about beating China in the artificial intelligence race.  That requires getting as much power on to the grid as quickly as  possible, but the big, ugly bill will do the opposite. It will instead  cause electricity capacity to decrease by more than 2\1/2\ times the  size of the entire Midwestern electric grid, and Trump's law will  render the United States unable to meet growing power demand or to  compete with China.

All this doesn't factor in the enormous toll that Trump's tariffs  will take on America's energy bills. A recent analysis found that  Trump's tariffs will cost your average American family $2,300 each  year. That is $2,300 that families need to pay rent, to buy groceries,  and to afford clothes and school supplies for their kids. Trump decided  to make everything more expensive, even the energy we buy.

The inconvenient truth that Republicans don't want to acknowledge is  that clean energy can compete with fossil fuels. They don't like that.  They are trying to put their thumb on the scale, and that is where this  week's bills come into play.

The first bill we are discussing right now, H.R. 3062, the cross- border energy bill, was first proposed way back in 2013 to respond to  the energy politics of the 2010s. It is simply irrelevant in this day  and age. The Keystone Pipeline has been dead for 4 years. The Canadians  are not interested in building energy infrastructure connecting our two  nations thanks to Trump's tariffs, yet this bill would gut the Federal  Government's ability to review the environmental impact of oil and gas  pipelines that cross into Canada and Mexico.

Currently, the Federal Government reviews the entirety of a cross- border oil pipeline, but under this bill, the review would be limited  to only 1,000 feet crossing the border. There would be virtually no  Federal review for natural gas pipelines running from Texas to Mexico.  This will make it easier to export American natural gas to liquid  natural gas facilities in Mexico, which, again, will drive up utility  prices here at home in the United States.

Finally, the bill creates a massive loophole allowing any existing  cross-border facility to expand without any review whatsoever. A  pipeline could be expanded by 10 times, dramatically increasing its  environmental impact, and there would still be no review.

If Republicans want to get serious about permitting reform, they need  to work with Democrats to advance policies that will fix the way we  permit and plan our Nation's grid.

Later today, we are going to consider another bill, H.R. 3015, that  would reestablish the National Coal Council, something that Energy  Secretary Wright has already done. Instead of using floor time on  anything important, like maybe trying to fix the affordability crisis  that is strangling middle-class America, Republicans are wasting time  passing a bill to do something that has already happened.

Then after that, the third bill, H.R. 1047, the GRID Power Act, would  require the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to allow electric grid  operators to prioritize connecting fossil fuel plants to the grid over  connecting clean energy power plants to the grid.

Now, this is just another way Republicans are tipping the scales  toward fossil fuels over wind and solar energy.

Taken together, Mr. Speaker, these three bills will only continue to  raise America's energy bills and, in some cases, do so while also  removing the guardrails that keep our communities safe and healthy.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge opposition to all three bills, including  the one we are debating right now, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. PALLONE.  Castor), the ranking member of our Energy  Subcommittee.

Mr. PALLONE.  McClellan), who is a member of the  committee.

Mr. Speaker, I want to comment on what the gentleman from Georgia  said. I know he is not here. I don't like to comment on people when  they are not here, but I am not really being critical personally, just  substantively.

The gentleman from Georgia and my colleagues on the other side keep  talking about how they are going to use this legislation to address  another pipeline from Canada. References were made to Keystone.  Keystone is dead.

There is no reason to believe in any way that the Canadians are  looking to work with us to build a pipeline and export more fossil  fuels to the United States. Right now, we barely have a relationship  with Canada because of the tariffs.

The fact of the matter is that there is a tariff on Canadian exports.  The bottom line, I guess, is the only way that we could get Canada to  maybe send us more oil or gas is if we did what President Trump says  and annex them and make them the 51st State. I am not an advocate for  that. I don't think that is going to happen.

It is unrealistic right now to talk about any kind of additional oil  or gas coming to the United States through a Canadian pipeline. That is  just not going to happen.

What I think is really happening here is that there is going to be an  effort, because of the way the bill reads, to double, triple, or even  10 times the amount of gas that would go from the United States to  Mexico, because the bill doesn't have any review with regard to that.  If you have an existing pipeline, you can just double, triple, or  quadruple it, or whatever, and send American gas to Mexico, where it is  going to be made into LNG and shipped throughout the world.

That is only going to increase our gas prices here in the United  States. That is what is going to happen here.

Again, we on the Democratic side have been stressing the fact that  when it comes to energy prices, they are going through the roof. The  Republicans don't seem to care at all about dealing with the issue. All  they want to do is make it possible for more of our gas to go abroad.

The way this bill is tailored, there would be basically no review,  other than, I think, for 1,000 feet, or something, into the other  country. The suggestion that somehow there is still going to be some  significant review here before these pipelines are permitted is simply  not the case, based on what this legislation says.

Mr. Speaker, for all of these reasons, I ask my colleagues to vote in  opposition to this bill.

I will talk more about the two that are following, but the same is  true: They are not helpful to Americans. They are going to increase  energy prices. They are another indication that the Trump  administration and House Republicans don't care at all about the  increased costs of energy for the American consumer.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.