Providing for Consideration of H.R. Breaking the Gridlock Act


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, there is no more important bill than Leader  Jeffries' bill to make healthcare more affordable for more than 20  million Americans whose monthly health premiums have skyrocketed  because of Republican inaction and indifference.

When I was home during the holidays, all I heard from my constituents  was that their healthcare premiums were doubling and tripling in the  State of New Jersey.

This bill is a godsend. I am not exaggerating. This bill is a godsend  for people who are concerned that they are not going to have health  insurance or already don't have health insurance because they weren't  able to buy it on January 1.

What happens when they don't get health insurance? Mr. Speaker, the  effects of this don't just affect the 20 million people who don't get  it because of the Affordable Care Act or ObamaCare. The effects are on  everyone who has health insurance because emergency rooms will once  again be overflowing with people who are forced to wait until they are  so sick that they have no choice but to go to the ER because they don't  have a doctor.

Patients will be sicker. Doctors and nurses will be stretched thin.  Hospitals will be left with large sums of uncompensated care, which  will be passed on to everyone with insurance in the form of higher  monthly premiums. This isn't just about the ACA, but it is most  important for those people who had the ACA and perhaps don't have it  anymore.

Unfortunately, the Republican majority has known these price hikes  were coming all along, but they didn't do a single thing to stop this  from happening.

Last year, Republicans instead spent their time giving permanent tax  breaks to billionaires and large companies, but refused to extend the  ACA enhanced premium tax credits to help lower healthcare costs for  everyday people. Today, we have a chance to right that wrong and help  out our hardworking Americans.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans may not want to admit it publicly, but they  know that the ACA has resulted in historically low insurance rates,  helped millions of families stay covered, and saved lives--and I stress  saved lives. If we don't take action, all of this  progress could be reversed as the American people are priced out of the  ability to see their doctors.

Vote for this bill.