Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low Nox Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.J. Res. 89, yet  another extremist, and I believe illegal, Congressional Review Act  resolution attacking a commonsense regulation to protect Americans'  health and the environment.

Now, H.J. Res. 89 would block the California waiver for the heavy- duty omnibus rule that sets stronger standards to lower nitrogen oxide  and particulate matter emissions from heavy-duty engines. The trucking  industry makes up just 10 percent of vehicles on the road, but 45  percent of nitrogen oxide and 56 percent of particulate matter  pollution.

Nitrogen oxide is a precursor for smog that can exacerbate numerous  health conditions and is associated with premature death. People who  live near ports, highways, and warehouses are disproportionately  exposed to high concentrations of this pollution.

Now, the California standard aims to address this pollution and  reverse course on these deadly trends. This is based on California's  unique circumstances. They have an air pollution problem that is a lot  worse than many of the other States.

Despite Republicans' false claims, the California program does not  ban internal combustion engine trucks. Maintaining the California  program is critical to improve public health outcomes and secure the  right to clean air for everyone. Repealing California's Federal  preemption waiver for its heavy-duty omnibus plan will rob Americans of  over $23 billion of health benefits through 2050 and increase premature  mortality, hospitalizations, and emergency room visits.

This resolution is a waste of our time because, as I have said on the  other two, both the GAO and the Senate Parliamentarian have concluded  that this waiver is not a rule and, therefore, cannot be revoked using  the Congressional Review Act. It is just another attempt by the  Republicans to distract from the economic chaos and uncertainty that  Trump is creating with our economy.

This resolution is going nowhere, but for all these reasons, Madam  Speaker, I oppose the resolution.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from  New York (Mr. Tonko), the ranking member of our Environment  Subcommittee.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from  California (Ms. Matsui), the ranking member of our Communications and  Technology Subcommittee.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  California (Mr. Mullin), also a member of our committee.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, my Republican colleagues are really misleading the  American people with their claims about the Heavy-Duty Low  NOX Omnibus rule. This rule actually gives California and  other States the ability to clean up pollution from dirty diesel  trucks, protecting the health of Americans and saving lives.

Heavy-duty engines emit harmful NOX and other toxic  pollutants that are significant contributors to ozone and particulate  matter. The health effects of this air pollution are well-documented  and include respiratory illness, cardiovascular problems, and even  death.

Madam Speaker, the Clean Air Task Force recently issued a report  showing the impacts of dirty diesel on communities. The figures are  staggering, and here are just a few highlights.

In 2026, dirty diesel is projected to cause nearly 500,000 lost  workdays, impacting our Nation's productivity; over 3,500 heart  attacks; thousands of cases of respiratory illness; and, yes, over  8,000 deaths. Dirty diesel will cost Americans over $90 billion in  health damages. Republicans are fighting for resolutions that are  hurting people's health and putting lives at risk.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.