Securing Semiconductor Supply Chains Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 2480, the Securing  Semiconductor Supply Chains Act.

Semiconductors are a necessary component of everything from consumer  electronics to automobiles to our national defense weapons systems. The  United States, once a global powerhouse in semiconductor fabrication,  has become dangerously reliant on other countries to manufacture these  chips, which are vital to both our national economic and security  interests.

That is why I was proud to help lead the passage of the CHIPS and  Science Act, a transformational law passed in 2022 that strengthens our  manufacturing base and helps create good-paying jobs for American  workers, unleashes more innovation, and lowers costs for consumers.  That law is investing over $52 billion in domestic semiconductor  production, research, and development.

Reshoring America's semiconductor supply chains requires carefully  crafted policy, economic and market stability, and State and Federal  Government partners empowered to support the industry. The Trump  administration is offering our country none of these things and is  instead pulling the rug out from under this critical sector by  increasing their construction costs with tariffs on critical trading  partners, creating unstable market conditions through careless policy,  in my opinion, and abruptly firing the government workers and domestic  manufacturers who depend on it. This weakens our manufacturing sector  and  hinders our ability to bring good jobs back to the United States, and  it will increase costs for American families who are already struggling  to make ends meet.

The legislation before us today will provide valuable information  about how we can take well-informed steps to increase foreign direct  investment to further advance our efforts to strengthen the  semiconductor supply chains, create more jobs, and continue to  revitalize American manufacturing.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Representative Landsman for his leadership on  this issue, and I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers. I urge  support for this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.