Secure Space Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2458, the Secure Space  Act, bipartisan legislation that I introduced last month with Energy  and Commerce Chair Guthrie.

There is no question that we are once again in the midst of a new  space age. It is opening a variety of new frontiers, curiosity, and  innovation, including the use of satellites in space to provide  broadband and other communications services.

As the demand for satellite services increases, so does the need to  protect these communications networks from untrusted actors and  equipment. We can't risk having our satellite networks face the same  challenges we have seen in some of our other communications networks,  which may be more challenging given the fact that satellites operate  globally. It is, therefore, imperative that we ensure the satellite  marketplace and its relevant supply chains are protected from threats  by nontrusted actors.

H.R. 2458 helps meet these objectives. This legislation will extend  the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act framework to the  licensing of both geostationary and nongeostationary orbit satellites  as well as the authorization of U.S. Earth stations. Effectively, this  legislation will prevent entities identified as national security risks  from gaining a license or authorization to access the U.S. satellite  market. This is especially relevant given that the combined satellite  fleets of China and Russia have grown by about 70 percent in the last  few years.

By applying the Secure and Trusted framework to the satellite  industry, we will take another crucial step toward protecting the  public from untrusted entities and our foreign adversaries. The  requirements in this legislation will not only benefit our Nation but  will also help further the United States' ability to protect our  allies, as they, too, rely on these global satellite networks for  broadband and emergency services.

I thank Chair Guthrie for working with me on this bipartisan bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this timely  legislation to protect Americans from untrusted actors seeking to use  our communications networks against us.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the legislation, and I yield back the  balance of my time.