Shandra Eisenga Human Cell and Tissue Product Safety Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1082, the Shandra  Eisenga Human Cell and Tissue Product Safety Act, sponsored by my  colleagues Representative Dingell and Representative Moolenaar.

Mr. Speaker, stem cell therapies and related products have shown  tremendous promise for delivering treatments to patients, such as bone  marrow transplants for certain cancer patients and therapies for  patients with blood and immune system disorders. Yet, there are still  rogue clinics that take advantage of patients who are desperate for  cures.

For example, there are reports of some clinics peddling unapproved  treatments with exaggerated and deceptive claims. Exposure to these  unproven treatments has put vulnerable patients' health at risk,  leading to serious adverse events, including blindness, bloodstream  infections, paralysis, and tumor growth.

There are currently few meaningful repercussions in the human cell  and tissue products industry. This bill would change that by providing  the Food and Drug Administration with additional enforcement tools to  more quickly and effectively protect the public. It provides a balanced  approach to improving safety of human cell tissue and cellular and  tissue-based products.

First, it provides clarity regarding FDA's scientific and regulatory  efforts to oversee these products. Second, it  also enables more effective enforcement against an establishment that  does not meet their donor eligibility obligations or current good  tissue practice obligations.

This would also encourage responsible manufacturers to continue to  develop and license products where the scientific evidence supports the  product's safety, purity, and potency.

I support this bill, Mr. Speaker, but continue to have concerns  regarding the chaos at HHS broadly and FDA specifically. While this  bill provides the FDA with additional enforcement tools, the Trump  administration has made massive cuts to both funding and staffing at  FDA.

The President's budget doubles down on this chaos by proposing an 11  percent cut to the FDA budget and eliminating 2,000 jobs. This hinders  the FDA's ability to actually protect the public.

Again, I call on my Republican colleagues to join me in conducting  proper oversight of the Trump administration's actions. Otherwise,  bipartisan efforts like this one will be rendered meaningless. If we  are giving the agency new statutory tools and enforcement authority  because we think there is a risk to the public, then the agency must be  prepared to carry out those duties.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this important  legislation on a bipartisan basis, and I yield back the balance of my  time.