Transparency in Charges for Key Events Ticketing Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 1402, the TICKET Act.  This bipartisan legislation creates a fairer and more transparent event  ticketing marketplace. It ends the surprise fees on tickets for  concerts and sporting events that understandably frustrate consumers.  With this legislation, the price you see when you are shopping for  event tickets will be the price that  you pay. There will be no hidden fees raising the price at the checkout  point.

This bill also prohibits companies from selling tickets they don't  have, requires refunds for events that are canceled or postponed more  than 6 months into the future, and cracks down on fraudulent ticketing  websites.

American consumers need and deserve these commonsense protections.

Yet, these protections are meaningless without strong and consistent  enforcement. House Republicans are standing by in silence as the  Federal Trade Commission, the agency entrusted with enforcing this bill  and several others under consideration this afternoon, is compromised  by the Trump administration and the President's illegal political  attempt to fire the two Democratic commissioners.

This unlawful decision undermines the legitimacy and transparency of  the agency's decisions, sending a message that no commissioner,  regardless of party, is safe, and no business that harms consumers  should fear accountability, so long as it shows sufficient loyalty to  the President.

I urge my Republican colleagues to recognize that restoring the FTC  as an independent agency, as this Congress intended, is essential to  ensuring this bill and similar efforts to protect consumers are fully  effective and enforced without fear or favor.

I thank the wide range of stakeholders who worked on this bill, and  particularly the consumer groups for their unwavering support of this  bill.

Of course, I particularly want to commend Subcommittee Chair  Bilirakis and Ranking Member Schakowsky for their years of hard work on  this legislation.

Finally, I need to acknowledge, Mr. Speaker, the contribution of my  late colleague and dear friend from New Jersey, Congressman Bill  Pascrell. He was a tireless advocate and leader on improving the  ticketing experience for consumers.

I am proud to have partnered with him on his longtime efforts that  are included in the bill we have before us today. When the TICKET Act  was on the floor last year, Bill gave an impassioned speech in support  of all-in pricing and the other consumer protections in this bill.

Mr. PALLONE.  Schakowsky), the Democratic sponsor of this bill, who has  worked on this legislation for such a long time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I agree with Mr. Bilirakis. This is  important consumer protection, and I am glad to see that our committee  and the subcommittee headed by Mr. Bilirakis as chair and Ms.  Schakowsky as the ranking member has taken on so many of these consumer  issues today and in the future. I ask for support on both sides of the  aisle, and I yield back the balance of my time.