CNN "The Lead with Jake Tapper" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Doug Jones


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT  

President Trump celebrating his impeachment acquittal today by viciously attacking House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Republican Senator Mitt Romney during a freewheeling, hour-long speech at the White House, and at the normally bipartisan, come-together National Prayer Breakfast.

Joining me now is Alabama's Democratic Senator Doug Jones, who voted to convict President Trump. Jones is in a tough reelection fight this year.

Senator Jones, thanks for joining us. Appreciate it.

SEN. DOUG JONES (D-AL): Always a pleasure, Jake. Thank you.

TAPPER: So, I know you're a man of faith.

I want to get your reaction to what the president said about Romney and Pelosi earlier today. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I don't like people who use their faith as justification for doing what they know is wrong, nor do I like people who say, I pray for you, when they know that that's not so.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

TAPPER: As you know, the Prayer Breakfast has been going on since Eisenhower. It's typically a bipartisan celebration of faith.

What's your response to that?

JONES: Well, a couple of things.

Number one, I think that is typical, unfortunately, of President Trump. He has never let anything, whether it's the Prayer Breakfast or anything else, start -- stop him from stoking the partisan divide in this country.

It is a huge, huge problem. Everyone knows it. And I think the president makes it a lot worse.

And I think it's pretty disingenuous of him, someone who I think uses religion to just stoke his political career, as opposed to attacking somebody like Mitt Romney.

Everyone who knows Mitt Romney knows he is a man of faith, a man of deep faith. We see it all the time in the U.S. Senate. Speaker Pelosi is the same way. And I think it's just wrong. It's unfortunate. But that seems to be par for the course for this president, attack people on anything he can.

TAPPER: It seems likely that Romney and you are going to have the tough time politically because of your votes to convict.

Have you talked to Romney about the vote that he made?

JONES: No, I have not.

I wanted to yesterday on the floor, but he and I missed each other on the floor. I did call and left him a message today and told him I believe he is a man of courage and conviction and faith, and I appreciated him.

But that was true before this vote. I think that he just simply demonstrated a conscience that I think we need more of in the United States Senate, we need more of in the Congress, we need more of, of public officials around the country.

TAPPER: Alabama, as I don't need to tell you, is a state that President Trump won by 27 percentage points in 2016.

Is it possible that you just guaranteed you will not be reelected in November because of this vote?

JONES: Oh, I think far from it, Jake. I think just the opposite, as a matter of fact.

I mean, there are people that are not happy with that vote. But at the same time, Alabama is a state that believes in right and wrong. And that was the -- that was how I was brought up in Fairfield, Alabama.

I talked about that on the floor yesterday. And we believe in right and wrong. And when you understand somebody and how they vote and what they do, and the -- and the abiding conviction that they may have and the amount of time we put in there, I think people will understand.

They're not going to always agree, and I get that. But, you know, what's interesting, I just looked at a couple of statistics. You know, Alabama voted pretty heavily for Mitt Romney too.

And so it's one of those interesting things that I think, as people go forward, they're going to look at the facts. And, Jake, we have not heard the last of the facts that are going to come out.

You know I was a big proponent of witnesses and documents. We've not heard the last of this. So, these facts and all are going to continue to come out. So, we have got a long way to go before this election in November.

TAPPER: Jeff Sessions, the former -- former attorney general and Alabama's Republican senator in the past, tweeted at you -- quote -- "Doug Jones is deeply complicit in this grave wrong. In voting to remove our duly elected president, Doug Jones personifies the left's irrational enmity against President Donald Trump.

[16:20:07]

He's made it clear that he's in the U.S. Senate to represent Washington Democrats, not the people of Alabama."

Now, Sessions does not yet have the Republican nomination in the race to take you on. But what would you say to Alabamians who might want to vote for you, but really disagree with your decision to convict President Trump nine months before a presidential election?

JONES: I'd tell them to look at my record, look at what I have done for the people of Alabama. Compare that with somebody like Jeff Sessions, who didn't do very much at all for the people of this state.

Look at what I have done in just two years in the United States Senate, whether it is on the widow's tax, whether it's on -- for other veterans, for armed services, for work force development, you name it. We have been there for the people of Alabama.

And then I want them to look and see and listen to how I came to a very, very difficult decision. I think the most sacred thing we have in this country right now is the right to vote and the will of the people.

But, at the same time, the Framers noted that there will be times in our history, just a possibility, that our damage could be more done by a president who embarks on a corrupt course of conduct for his own personal benefit.

And, regardless of this vote, I am prepared to do all I can to let folks know where I am, stand where I am. And for people to say that I'm just part of the left is laughable. Anybody that knows my record and sees my record and understands it knows that I am for the people of Alabama.

TAPPER: Senator Doug Jones, Democrat of Alabama, thanks so much for your time, sir. Appreciate it.

JONES: You got it, Jake. Thank you.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT