CNN "The Lead with Jake Tapper" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Doug Jones


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Let's talk now to Democratic Senator Doug Jones of Alabama. He is a juror in the impeachment trial.

Sir, thank you for joining us.

SEN. DOUG JONES (D-AL): My pleasure, Brianna. Thank you.

KEILAR: What do you think about, in this defense memo submitted by President Trump's legal team, that they insist the president did not commit a crime and that he was right to ask Ukraine to look into the Bidens and Burisma?

JONES: Well, I haven't read that in full detail. I have been studying the House managers' report, and I'm going to start looking at the president's. It was just filed today.

I don't think he has a right to simply look into something and withhold congressionally approved aid. We need to look at all of the facts here. We will just see.

I think that, right now, what we need to hear is the legal arguments from both sides. And let's -- let's get the facts and see how this picture turns out.

I think, right now, you're just seeing both sides being advocates. And we will have to see how that shakes out.

KEILAR: Would you support a rules package that allows witnesses, but only later in the process, not in the beginning, which is what Democrats say they want?

JONES: If it just -- quote -- "allows for a vote," I would not support that.

I think we need to do this on the front end. I have been consistent about that. I have said all along that the president should not be blocking witnesses and should be participating in this.

I think that the American people need a full, fair and complete hearing. So I'm not going to vote for a package that does not allow for witnesses on the front end, so the House managers and the president's team can start that process, depose those witnesses now, to try to make sure that this goes as efficient as possible.

One thing I worry about is that this thing is just going to get jammed in front of the American public. And, all of a sudden, we're going to get an argument made, well, we just don't need witnesses because it's just going to drag it out into February.

That's just not right. It's not fair. And I think the American people deserve better.

KEILAR: If you do get to call witnesses, as you're very well aware, the tradeoff could be that Republicans will get witnesses. That would be an expectation. Would you be OK with Hunter Biden testifying?

JONES: Well, I think that somebody has to look and see the relevance.

I'm OK with any witnesses, witnesses that have relevance to the charges.

KEILAR: Is he relevant?

JONES: I don't know. I haven' -- I don't think it is. That's just -- that's my opinion right now. And I think the chief justice would be the first to rule on that.

It doesn't seem to me that what was going on in 2015 with Hunter Biden is relevant to the underlying charge of what this president has been charged with. If others have a disagreement, then they can feel free to call Mr. Biden.

But I don't see the relevance in that. I'd like to think -- I think that there are witnesses.

[16:35:05]

And remember this. Even witnesses that the House managers want to call will be cross-examined by the president's lawyers. The president has complained that he's not gotten due process, that he didn't get to participate, even though he was invited to, in the House Judiciary Committee.

Any witness now is subject to cross-examination by the president's very able counsel.

So, that's the truth-telling part of this. Cross-examination is the great tool for seeking the truth. KEILAR: There's a new CNN poll, and it finds that people in

battleground states are evenly split here, 49 percent who say that President Trump should be removed from office.

Your seat, of course, isn't a battleground state. You only won your seat by two points. And I think that was a giant surprise pretty much to everybody.

(LAUGHTER)

KEILAR: Can you get reelected in a red state like that if you vote to convict and remove the president?

JONES: I'm going to get reelected regardless, Brianna. It doesn't matter that -- I'm going to be able to -- whatever -- whichever I vote, I will be able to come back to the people of Alabama and do two things.

Number one, I will be able to explain my vote and justify it, according to my oath and the Constitution. The second thing, I can point to a record of success in only two years in the United States Senate, we will be going on three in November, of success for the people of Alabama.

And that's what folks are looking for. They're looking for health care. They're looking for rural broadband. They're looking to make sure their hospitals are open and they got work force development. They're looking for a fair shake for all people and one Alabama, not just for the rich and the famous.

So that's what's going to carry me over the threshold in November.

KEILAR: Senator, thank you so much, Doug Jones of Alabama. We appreciate your time.

JONES: It's my pleasure, Brianna. Thank you.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT