CNN "Erin Burnett Outfront" - Transcript: Sen. Doug Jones (D-AL) Discusses About Iran's Attack On Al-Assad Airbase Where U.S. Troops Are Housed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

BURNETT: All right. Thank you very much, Fred. We're going to be going back to Fred throughout the hour, obviously. He is hearing from people on the ground. There are commanders on the ground in Tehran and also able to monitor what they are seeing and obviously their television network is now broadcasting what they say is the actual strike itself of what they claim are ballistic missiles.

I want to go now to Democratic Senator Doug Jones here as our reporters continue to scramble this information together. He sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee. Senator, I appreciate your time tonight. This is not what we expected to be talking about. I'm sorry that it is, but nonetheless, here we are.

We understand at least 10 rockets have hit that American airbase. U.S. forces are there. We don't yet know anything about the scale of the damage or any possible casualties. We do know Iran is taking credit for direct personal credit. What is your initial reaction?

SEN. DOUG JONES (D-AL): Well, I think we have to see what's going on. I think one of the things that we have to make sure we do is we've got a briefing set tomorrow and I'm hoping to get more information. Right now, we're picking up the same information as senators that you are in the media.

And what we know is that the President and the administration with the killing of Soleimani put Americans at risk and what I want to know is what are we doing now. We can go back and we can revisit what happened, why was there an imminent threat. But I'm really - obviously more important, I've got Alabama men and women who are going to be going over there.

BURNETT: Yes.

JONES: I want to know if they're going to be at risk and we need to have a briefing, a full complete briefing on what's going on and what they expect in the near future.

BURNETT: I mean, look, you have here - the Iranians were clear, when I spoke to the Iranian ambassador to the UN, they were going to strike. It was a time of their choosing and here they are. Do you believe that this is their response? You heard Fred Pleitgen say they had indicated it would be at military targets. That is what this is, but do you see this as a precursor to a real attack or as the attack?

JONES: I think it's a little early to tell right now, Erin. I mean, what I was listening to before you came to me was that these may be ballistic missile attacks. If that's the case, this is a really serious matter. That ups the game considerably rather than just a rocket attacks from proxy groups that may be in the area.

I think it's really early to tell right now whether or not this is a precursor, whether we're about to engage in something more significant or whether this is going to die down tonight and something else will happen. What we know is we got folks at risk and that's what I'm sure the administration is looking at now.

BURNETT: Right. And we are waiting to see, I mean, when you say ballistic missiles would change the game completely, in what sense? Does that in your mind justify a different sort of response by the United States?

JONES: It's possible when it very well could. I'm not sure about that yet, but certainly ballistic missiles are coming from Iran. We know they have that capabilities.

There are so many proxy groups over there. You can never tell whether or not this is in fact something that they're doing along with the Iranian guard group or this is just something that is coming directly from the top.

[19:10:08]

I think this is so early right now, but the main thing that I think that we've got to make sure is our troops on the ground should have been prepared for this. They should have expected something. I know they've been looking for something.

BURNETT: Yes, sir.

JONES: We'll see where we are.

BURNETT: Senator, please stay with me. I'm sorry to interrupt you, but we do have some more breaking news.

JONES: Sure.

BURNETT: Barbara Starr joins me live from the Pentagon with some new details. She's learning about this strike. Barbara.

BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Erin, we have just gotten this, received this statement from the Pentagon and I'm going to go ahead and read it to everybody and then explain some of what they're talking about here.

The Pentagon says that at 5:30 Eastern Time today Iran, and I'm quoting from this statement, "Iran launched more than a dozen ballistic missiles against U.S. military and coalition forces in Iraq. It is clear that these missiles were launched from Iran and targeted at least two Iraqi military bases hosting U.S. military and coalition personnel at Al-Assad and Irbil." So let's go back a minute.

This statement tells us that ballistic missiles were launched against American forces and Iraqis, but against American forces from launch point inside Iran. This means a significant uptick in what the Iranians have been doing. They have been supporting a number of so called militia groups that have fired, pardon me, rockets and artillery that is relatively small.

These are likely short to medium range ballistic missiles, we'll have to find out. The only way the Pentagon would really know that these are ballistic missiles at this point would be because they have the electronic intelligence. They have the telemetry, the radar tracks. There are a number of systems inside Iran - pardon me, inside Iraq that would be able to track these incoming ballistic missiles.

So, I mean, going back, this now it is hard to see how President Trump would not respond to this. There are no reports yet of - I'm just going on, we have no specific information yet on any casualties killed or wounded. It doesn't mean it hasn't happened, but they say in this statement that they're working on the assessment of any battle damage.

But the really significant point here is that Iran - from inside Iran, more than a dozen ballistic missiles were launched against the U.S. military and coalition. This is something that they had worried about for several days. We reported and we know that U.S. and military intelligence had information that Iran had been moving short, medium range ballistic missiles around inside that country.

What they were looking watching for was any indication that those missiles have been fueled up, and were ready to go onto launchers and were ready to be fired. So we will have to learn what intelligence the U.S. may have had. Just prior to launch, we'll have to learn whether they were able to use any patriot missiles or any defense systems at sea to try and shoot down any of these ballistic missiles.

An awful lot to learn here tonight, but the basic construct is ballistic missiles fired by Iran knowingly, obviously, against U.S. forces. This has not happened in recent years. I mean, in fact, we'll have to get to the last time ballistic missiles were fired against U.S. forces in the Middle East, Erin.

BURNETT: I mean, Barbara, I think you're laying out here, I know Senator Jones was referring to this, but this is a game changer in terms of the way that they're doing this, that they're launching them from Iran, not directed by Iran, not because of Iran, not by a proxy but launched there that they were able to have. I mean, we knew they have a deep stockpile, but that they were able to do this and put their imprimatur on it proudly that this changes the symmetry here, right, this isn't - go ahead.

STARR: It does. It really does. Ballistic missiles or how to describe, I mean, there are essentially, if they work, if they hit a target, they can be weapons of significant destruction, significant human destruction. We saw this decades ago in the first Gulf War, Saddam Hussein. Remember he was firing Scud missiles, which were essentially very first generation ballistic missiles, but they were not very accurate, thankfully.

When ballistic missiles are accurate, when they are guided to a target, they can be absolutely devastating. Iran has a huge ballistic missile inventory.

[19:15:00]

If the United States is going to try and target Iran's entire ballistic missile inventory and go after it, I think it's safe to say they're well beyond the hundreds in both short and medium range ballistic missiles. And that's an interesting question. We're going to have to see where the launch points really were, how far away Al- Assad and Irbil were, that's going to tell us a lot about what has happened here.

But I also want to mention, it is very well understood that Iran is working even beyond short and medium, working on long range missiles that could hit Europe.

BURNETT: All right. Barbara, thank you very much. As she gets more information, we're going to go back to Barbara.

Senator Jones, I know you were listening to her report there, but obviously now confirmed from the Pentagon more than a dozen ballistic missiles launched from inside Iran, targeting not one but two U.S. air bases. Al Assad and also Irbil more towards the north.

You had indicated ballistic missiles for you really, this could be a game changer. Now, you have heard it confirmed, your reaction?

JONES: Well, I think it is significant. I think it is potentially a game changer. What I think the President and the administration need to do, they need to follow through with their promise tomorrow to come brief the members of Congress. That's the one thing that's been missing here is that a full briefing of the members of Congress and the United States Senate I think is necessary.

Before we take any further military action, I hope the President will come to the Senate, will come to the House, talk about that, get an authorization for the use of that before anything further is done and this gets even greater and deeper into war than what it appears that we may be headed to now. I think that that is really important that we get a full briefing and get some kind of authorization, if he can get that, and see what it is that we can expect.

I think that's an important question, Erin. What is the endgame here? What is the outcome that they're looking for here with regard to Iran? We have not heard that from this administration as of yet.

BURNETT: No, we have not. We have not and I appreciate your time, Senator. Thank you very much for being with me tonight. Our breaking news coverage continues here as we are getting more information now confirming these were more than a dozen ballistic missiles launched from Iran targeting U.S. targets in Iraq.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT