Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. JONES. Madam President, today I want to talk just briefly about  all that we can do. I know we are facing an emergency in this country.  We are facing a healthcare crisis. 

  Instead of talking about all that is going on here in Congress--and  there is a lot going on that the people of America need to understand.  You see empty Chambers right now, but the fact is, we are trying to do  those things necessary to stop the spread of this virus as well. 

  I want to talk a little bit about what we can do as Americans to  protect ourselves and our country. In doing so, I am thinking back to  an old friend of mine from my younger days. 

  Back when I was a kid, the National Park Service and others were  concerned about the forest fires around the country, and they came up  with what is now an old friend of mine: Smokey Bear. Everybody  remembers Smokey Bear. You still see Smokey on occasion because only  you can prevent forest fires. 

  Well, folks, we have forest fires raging around this country right  now in the form of COVID-19, and only you can prevent the spread of  that forest fire, the COVID-19 virus--only you. We have healthcare  responders out there. We have emergency responders, people who are  doing amazing work right now responding to this virus. But it is up to  us. It is up to you. Only you can prevent the spread by doing those  things necessary to try to protect your communities. The social  distancing that people are talking about, the hand washing--all of  those things are so important that we have to do as individuals to make  sure we flatten that curve. 

  You don't need to be going on spring break or vacation right now-- none of this. With shutting down these businesses and things and people  being at home, this is not vacation time. You can use it, but it is not  a time to go out on vacation, to do those kinds of things. It is a time  to try to protect yourself and your communities. 

  Don't go out and try to get tested unless you have symptoms and have  talked to your healthcare provider. In Alabama right now, we are seeing  long lines of folks who are lined up at a private testing facility to  try to get tested. I don't know all the protocols that they have, but I  know my friends at the University of Alabama in Birmingham--in the  infectious disease center--with whom I have met and talked on a regular  basis, say that the odds are that a number of those people in those  lines don't need to test right now. They are concerned. Everybody is  worried. Everybody wants to know. But the fact is, there are not enough  tests out there for everyone just yet. We are getting there. More and  more tests are coming online. 

  We also have to be concerned about the equipment--the swabs that are  used, the test tubes that have to be used. Those are the things we are  running in short supply of as well. 

  So unless you have those symptoms, unless you see that you are  getting sick, stay home. Stay with your families. We are going to be  inconvenienced for some time, but I think we need to do all we can to  make those inconveniences as short-lived as possible. The short-term  pain will mean long-term gain for all of us, but only if we follow the  best practices that the CDC and all our departments of public health  are talking about right now. 

  We have legislative packages that are coming over from the House. We  have more. I can tell you, for my folks in Alabama and the folks across  the United States, your U.S. Senators on both sides of the aisle are  working very hard to try to minimize this impact. There are things we  can do now, and we are trying to get those done. There are things we  can do to take care of small businesses and families, and we are  working very hard to make sure those things get done now. 

  Also, keep this in mind: This is going to be a work in progress. This  is not something we know the long-term implications of just yet. Our  goal is to blunt that curve, as you have seen Dr. Fauci and others  talking about, to try to stem the tide of this virus, to make it to  where it is going to be manageable in our healthcare systems. If we can  do that, we can better assess how we can protect small businesses and  how we can protect working families and make sure they have the income  they need to get by on a daily basis, knowing that when this crisis  does subside, they can get back to work and we can get this economy  popping, as the President said earlier today. That is our goal. That is  what we are trying to do. 

  We also have to take a deep look at ourselves, I believe. Folks  across the country need to take a deep look and see what we can do as  States, as Members of Congress, and as American people to do better on  our healthcare system, which right now is under increasing strain and  stresses with this pandemic virus. We need to see, structurally, those  kinds of things that can help stem the tide of this virus but also put  in place things that are going to  help our healthcare delivery system that we have in this country. Those  are the kinds of things I hope we will take a look at as we go forward  and we better understand the problems we are facing in the United  States. 

  For me, ever since I started running for this office, I have talked  about the need to expand Medicaid in Alabama. Right now, I am concerned  about all Alabamans, but there are some 326,000 people below the  poverty line who do not qualify for Medicaid and are wondering right  now: What is going to happen to me? What is going to happen because I  don't have health insurance? I can't go get in that line in Birmingham  that requires a Medicaid or a Medicare card or an insurance card. I  don't know what to do. 

  We are working on things to try to help to do that, but I think  expanding Medicaid is an important part of this. Those Alabamans who  are at most risk from the COVID-19 virus are those in rural areas where  hospitals are closing and who cannot get to a doctor--the community  health centers are sparsely situated throughout the State--our seniors  and people of all ages who have preexisting conditions. 

  I want folks in Alabama to really think about this. We have now heard  for a month or so that it is not just the elderly but it is people with  certain preexisting conditions who are at most risk for the COVID-19  virus and significant complications from the virus. Those are people  who are diabetic; people with cardiovascular disease; people with  kidney disease; people who are, in fact, so much of the demographics of  the State of Alabama. 

  I have said it so many times: We are a relatively poor State. We are  an unhealthy State. We have more people at risk for this virus than  probably most because of the preexisting conditions that exist among  the populace in the State of Alabama. Those are the ones about whom we  are concerned. 

  There are consequences to Alabama's not expanding Medicaid, and there  are going to be consequences if we don't do things in the future to try  to make sure we get relief to all people. 

  There are going to be consequences if the administration continues to  fight in court to eliminate the Affordable Care Act and all of its  protections for those with preexisting conditions. Why in the world, in  this time of healthcare crisis, would the administration continue to do  this just now? Now is the time that we need to be putting lawsuits  aside, taking those lawsuits and putting them away and working together  to try to do those things within the ACA to get coverage for so many  more people. We can do that. We are seeing people rallying now here on  the Hill and with the administration. That is what we need to be doing,  not trying to work through lawsuits to get rid of the ACA. 

  Now is the time that we need to be working together to make sure  everyone in this country gets the healthcare they need. We need to  expand Medicaid, work together to keep rural hospitals open, and not  dismantle the ACA but improve the flaws in the existing ACA, making  sure that everyone with a preexisting condition is protected. 

  So I am once again calling on this administration, calling on the 20  attorneys general from around the country--including my own in the  State of Alabama--let's get rid of this, and let's work together to try  to figure out how we can get healthcare into all ZIP Codes in America,  including all the ZIP Codes in the State of Alabama. 

  Folks, we have amazing opportunities here. It is a challenging time,  but challenges also give us opportunities. We need to take those  opportunities. We have that opportunity here in the Senate and the  Congress and the Government of the United States, but we have these  opportunities as a country. We have these opportunities for  individuals. 

  We have to act quickly and without regard to politics or party. The  American people are looking to us--they are looking to this Congress,  they are looking to the administration--to do those things necessary,  to take the steps necessary to protect their families, their  communities, their livelihoods, and our economy. We can do this, but we  need to rise to the occasion. We need to work quickly. We need to put  the American people first. It is the American people's interests who  have to come first. 

  As individuals, we have to review the responses to the COVID crisis  as an act of citizenship. Every response has to be seen, in my view, as  an act of citizenship, not only for this country but for citizens of  the world, to do the things that need to be done for yourself, for your  family, but also for each other in the greater beloved community. We  have to recognize that we all must make sacrifices. We are in this  together. 

  Our doctors, our nurses, and our healthcare professionals are already  doing that. They are fighting with everything they have to minimize the  suffering and to save as many as they can, often putting themselves in  jeopardy. One of the things we have to do is give them more tools to do  their jobs. We are working on that. But these folks are those frontline  folks. 

  It is just like the first responders of 9/11, who were running toward  the danger to try to help others flee from it. That is what our  healthcare professionals and our first responders are doing today. They  are running toward the danger to try to minimize the suffering and to  save lives. 

  Folks, everybody in America needs to hear all of this. We need to be  thanking those people. We need to be thanking the folks who are still  putting food on the shelves at the grocery stores, the people who are  still stocking the sanitizer at the drug stores, the people who are  still doing those routine things to help all Americans. 

  We need to hear this as well: Staying at home for the next few weeks  may be a hardship, but it is the right thing to do. It is the right  thing to do not just for the obvious reasons of protecting yourself.  You do it for your neighbors. You do it for your fellow citizens in  your community. You do it for your grandparents. You do it for all of  those close to you. That is how we stop this virus. That is how Smokey  puts out the forest fires. It is each one of us. Only you can do this,  and none of it will be easy. 

  Financial hardships will be faced by far too many Americans already  living on the edge. It is in our local communities that we have to  respond to the heroic efforts to bridge these hardships for as many as  possible and to make this period of disruption as short as possible. 

  The truth is, it is you, Mr. and Mrs. America. It is you, the  American people, who are the best defense now. You are the frontline.  You are the foot soldiers of trying to stem this crisis. Don't shake  hands as some sign of strength. Stopping that simple contact is not  only going to keep you safer but it is going to strengthen the fight to  stop these fires. Do those little things. 

  The American people have to rally to this challenge not just for  themselves but for each other, for the sick and the elderly and the  most vulnerable in our society, for the doctors and the nurses who are  on the frontlines, for the children who will need those school lunch  programs they can't get because schools are out all across this  country. We do it for those who can't afford 1 day--let alone 1 week or  2 weeks or a couple of months--of lost wages. That is who we have to do  this for. 

  Let me mention something. I want to talk a little bit directly to the  younger folks in Alabama and the younger folks in our country. You are  perhaps the most powerful voices and examples in this fight. You know  that it is not likely that you are going to personally suffer the  hardest of these hardships in the sense of getting this virus. It is  not going to cause the incredible complications of so many others, but  that makes you the most powerful weapon that we have in this fight. You  can lead this country's war against this disease. You can lead the  State of Alabama and all of your States and your communities, and you  do so by example, just like young people have done in the history of  this country. Whether it was with the Vietnam war, whether it was  through civil rights, whether it was through little things like  buckling seatbelts, it is the younger folks in this country who have  led the way and shown the examples. You are the most connected  generation or couple of generations in the history of the world. 

  By having those connections to each other, you have connections to  your communities and to your grandparents and to your parents and your  aunts and your uncles and those living down the street who might be  shut in at this  point--sick and shut in--whom you can help and get the word out to. 

  This is the moment in time where we can come together as a people. We  can come together, and you as young people, who get so maligned in so  many different ways--and I see that--you are the prime examples, and  you can lead this country at a time when we desperately need all people  in this country to lead by example and by information. I know you will  step up to do it. I know you will make sure that your kids are  protected, but I know you will also make sure that you do those things  and do what Smokey the Bear says, because it is only you that can  prevent the forest fire of this virus from spreading. 

  So that is our challenge today. That is the challenge for America and  the individuals. 

  As a body, I can assure folks that the Senate and the Congress are  going to do everything we can to do our part to minimize the damage  that this is inflicting, to help repair the damage, to make sure that  we get back on our feet at the right time when this fire is stemmed.  What we know and what is demanded of us as a U.S. Senate, what is  demanded of us as a government, is nothing short of the same kind of  government response--overwhelming response--the same kind of commitment  and response worthy of the sacrifices we are asking all American  citizens to make in this fight. I believe that this Senate, I believe  that the House, and I believe that the administration are up to that  challenge, but we have to remember whom we are fighting for, and that  is each of you--the American people. 

  We will do our part. We will make sure what we do as a response to  this is worthy of the sacrifices that we are asking each one of you to  make every day for an unknown foreseeable time. 

  (Ms. McSALLY assumed the Chair.) 

  (Mr. SASSE assumed the Chair.) 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT