Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. JONES. Mr. President, on the day I was sworn in as a United  States Senator, I took an oath to protect and defend the Constitution.  Just last month, at the beginning of the impeachment trial, I took a  second oath to do fair and impartial justice, according to the same  Constitution I swore to protect. 

  As I took the oath and throughout the impeachment trial, I couldn't  help but think of my father. As many of you know, I lost my dad over  the holiday recess. While so many were arguing over whether or not the  Speaker of the House should send Articles of Impeachment to the Senate,  I was struggling with watching him slip away, while only occasionally  trying to weigh in with my voice to be heard about the need for  witnesses in the upcoming impeachment trial. My dad was a great man, a  loving husband, father, grandfather, and great-grandfather who did his  best to instill in me the values of right and wrong as I grew up in  Fairfield, AL. He was also a fierce patriot who loved this country.  Although, fortunately, he was never called on to do so, I firmly  believe he would have placed his country even above his family because  he knew and understood fully what America and the freedoms and  liberties that come with her mean to everyone in this great country  and, significantly, to people around the world. 

  I know he would have put his country before any allegiance to any  political party or even to any President. He was on the younger side of  that ``greatest generation'' who joined the Navy at age 17 to serve our  great military. That service and love of country shaped him into the  man of principle that he was, instilling in me those same principles.  In thinking of him, his patriotism, his principles, and how he raised  me, I am reminded of Robert Kennedy's words that were mentioned in this  trial:  

       Few men are willing to brave the disapproval of their       fellows, the censure of their colleagues, the wrath of their       society. Moral courage is a rarer commodity than bravery in       battle or great intelligence. Yet it is the one essential,       vital quality for those who seek to change a world that       yields most painfully to change.  

  Candidly, to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I fear that  moral courage, country before party is a rare commodity these days. We  can write about it and talk about it in speeches and in the media, but  it is harder to put into action when political careers may be on the  line. Nowhere is the dilemma more difficult than in an impeachment of  the President of the United States. Very early on in this process, I  implored my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, in both Houses of  Congress, to stay out of their political and partisan corners. Many  did, but so many did not. Even the media continually view this entire  process through partisan, political eyes and how it may or may not  affect an election. That is unfortunate. The country deserves better,  and we must find a way to move beyond such partisan divides. 

  The solemn oaths that I have taken have been my guides during what  has been a difficult time for the country, my State, and for me  personally. I did not run for the Senate hoping to participate in the  impeachment trial of a duly elected President, but I cannot and will  not shrink from my duty to defend the Constitution and to do impartial  justice. 

  In keeping with my oath as Senator and my oath to do impartial  justice, I resolved that throughout this process, I would keep an open  mind, to consider the evidence without regard to political affiliation,  and to hear all of the evidence before making a final decision on  either charge against the President. I believe that my votes later  today will reflect that commitment. 

  With the eyes of history upon us, I am acutely aware of the  precedents that this impeachment trial will set for future Presidencies  and Congresses. Unfortunately, I do not believe that those precedents  are good ones. I am particularly concerned that we have now set a  precedent that the Senate does not have to go forward with witnesses or  review documents, even when those witnesses have firsthand information  and the documents would allow us to test not just the credibility of  witnesses but also test the words of counsel of both parties. 

  It is my firm belief that the American people deserve more. In short,  witnesses and documents would provide the Senate and the American  people with a more complete picture of the truth. I believe the  American people deserve nothing less. 

  That is not to say, however, that there is not sufficient evidence in  which to render a judgment. There is. As a trial lawyer, I once  explained this process to a jury as like putting together the pieces of  a puzzle. When you open the box and spread all the pieces on the table,  it is just an incoherent jumble. But one by one, you hold those pieces  up, and you hold them next to each other and see what fits and what  doesn't. Even if, as was often the case in my house growing up, you are  missing a few pieces--even important ones--you more often than not see  the picture. 

  As I have said many times, I believe the American people deserve to  see a completed puzzle, a picture with all of the pieces--pieces in the  form of documents and witnesses with relevant, firsthand information,  which would have provided valuable context, corroboration, or  contradiction to that which we have heard. But even with missing  pieces, our common sense and life's experiences allow us to see the  picture as it comes into full view. 

  Throughout the trial, one piece of evidence continued to stand out  for me. It was the President's statement that under the Constitution,  ``we have Article II, and I can do anything I want.'' That seems to  capture this President's belief about the Presidency; that he has  unbridled power, unchecked by Congress or the Judiciary or anyone  else. That view, dangerous as it is, explains the President's actions  toward Ukraine and Congress.  

  The sum of what we have seen and heard is, unfortunately, a picture  of a President who has abused the great power of his office for  personal gain--a picture of a President who has placed his personal  interest well above the interests of the Nation and, in so doing,  threatened our national security, the security of our European allies,  and the security of Ukraine. The evidence clearly proves that the  President used the weight of his office and the weight of the U.S.  Government to seek to coerce a foreign government to interfere in our  election for his personal political benefit. His actions were more than  simply inappropriate; they were an abuse of power. 

  When I was a lawyer for the Alabama Judicial Inquiry Commission,  there was a saying that the chairman of the inquiry commission and one  of Alabama's great judges, Randall Cole, used to say about judges who  strayed from the canons of ethics. He would say that the judge ``left  his post.'' 

  Sadly, President Trump left his post with regard to the withholding  of military aid to Ukraine and a White House visit for the new  Ukrainian President, and in so doing, he took the great powers of the  Office of the President of the United States with him. Impeachment is  the only check on such Presidential wrongdoing. 

  The second article of impeachment, obstruction of Congress, gave me  more pause. I have struggled to understand the House's strategy in  their failure to fully pursue documents and witnesses and wished that  they had done more. However, after careful consideration of the  evidence developed in the hearings, the public disclosures, the legal  precedents, and the trial, I believe that the President deliberately  and unconstitutionally obstructed Congress by refusing to cooperate  with the investigation in any way. While I am sensitive to protecting  the privileges and immunities afforded to the President and his  advisers, I believe it is critical to our constitutional structure that  we also protect the authorities of the Congress of the United States.  Here it was clear from the outset that the President had no intention  whatsoever of accommodating Congress when he blocked both witnesses and  documents from being produced. In addition, he engaged in a course of  conduct to threaten potential witnesses and smear the reputations of  the civil servants who did come forward and provide testimony. 

  The President's actions demonstrate a belief that he is above the  law, that Congress has no power whatsoever in questioning or examining  his actions, and that all who do so, do so at their peril. That belief,  unprecedented in the history of this country, simply must not be  permitted to stand. To do otherwise risks guaranteeing that no future  whistleblower or witness will ever come forward, and no future  President, Republican or Democrat, will be subject to congressional  oversight as mandated by the Constitution even when the President has  so clearly abused his office and violated the public trust. 

  Accordingly, I will vote to convict the President on both Articles of  Impeachment. In doing so, I am mindful that in a democracy there is  nothing more sacred than the right to vote and respecting the will of  the people. But I am also mindful that when our Founders wrote the  Constitution, they envisioned a time or at least a possibility that our  democracy would be more damaged if we fail to impeach and remove a  President. Such is the moment in history that we face today. 

  The gravity of this moment, the seriousness of the charges, and the  implication for future Presidencies and Congress have all contributed  to the difficulty at which I arrived at my decision. 

  I am mindful that I am standing at a desk that once was used by John  F. Kennedy, who famously wrote ``Profiles in Courage,'' and there will  be so many who simply look at what I am doing today and say that it is  a profile in courage. It is not. It is simply a matter of right and  wrong, where doing right is not a courageous act; it is simply  following your oath. 

  This has been a divisive time for our country, but I think it has  nonetheless been an important constitutional process for us to follow.  As this chapter of history draws to a close, one thing is clear to me.  As I have said before, our country deserves better than this. They  deserve better from the President, and they deserve better from the  Congress. We must find a way to come together, to set aside partisan  differences, and to focus on what we have in common as Americans. 

  While so much is going in our favor these days, we still face great  challenges, both domestically and internationally. But it remains my  firm belief that united we can conquer them and remain the greatest  hope for the people around the world. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT