Letter to the Hon. Marco Rubio, the Hon. Ben Cardin, the Hon. Nydia Velazquez, and the Hon. Steve Chabot - Looking Toward Next Coronavirus Package, Rosen, Cortez Masto, Lee Lead Bicameral Letters to Provide Nevada Small Businesses Increased Access to SBA Loans


Dear Chairman Rubio, Chairwoman Velázquez, Ranking Member Cardin, and Ranking MemberChabot:As you move toward a fourth coronavirus stimulus package, we ask that you take a moreprescriptive approach that provides the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) in statutewith more detailed guidelines on how it must administer small business relief programs such asthe Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) and the Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL)program. Lacking firm guardrails and with broad discretion to act as it sees fit, SBA hasinterpreted language in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES)Act regarding PPP in a manner that has excluded many small businesses from receiving relief,and we urge you to rectify this for that critically important program and others in anyforthcoming legislation.The CARES Act represented an unprecedented bipartisan effort to address the ongoing COVID19 public health crisis and resulting economic downturn. Republicans and Democrats cametogether to provide relief to working families, seniors, frontline healthcare workers, smallbusinesses, and other members of our communities. With a 96-0 vote in the Senate and aresounding voice vote in the House of Representatives, Members of Congress put aside partisandifferences in order to try to save the nation from a global pandemic and stave off economiccatastrophe. The President followed suit by signing the landmark bill into law.While much more work needs to be done to add to this important legislation, including additionalfunding for our small businesses and more direct support for workers, the Administration'simplementation of the CARES Act unfortunately has limited the law's potential effectiveness. Inparticular, the Paycheck Protection Program, designed to provide loans to small businesses whoneed to meet payroll obligations and want to keep workers employed, has been plagued withchallenges. Too many of these errors have been unforced, with the U.S. Small Business Administration and the U.S. Treasury Department either willfully ignoring Congressional intentor taking extreme license with the authority provided by the CARES Act. In doing so, countlesssmall businesses and non-profit organizations have been shut out of PPP.For example, while small businesses in the gaming industry support more than 350,000 jobs inthe United States, guidance released by the U.S. Small Business Administration and the U.S.Department of Treasury several weeks ago excluded any small business that derives more thanone-third of their revenue from legal gaming activities from participation in PPP. This is despitethe fact that, in Section 1102 of the CARES Act, the legislation explicitly states that "in additionto small business concerns, any business concern, nonprofit organization, veterans organization,or Tribal business concern described in section 31(b)(2)(C) shall be eligible to receive a coveredloan" if the business has 500 or fewer employees. SBA's incorrect interpretation of this clear lineof statutory text has cut out not only commercial gaming businesses, hotel casinos, and Tribalgaming operations, but also restaurants, bars, grocery stores, and convenience stores that operategaming equipment and derive revenue from it, along with gaming manufacturers and relatedbusinesses. After hearing from Members of Congress from states with legal gaming, SBAamended its guidance this week to raise the exclusion threshold to those entities deriving morethan half of their revenue from gaming, with a $1 million overall cap on annual gaming revenue.While this is a step in the right direction, all small businesses should have access to CARES Actloan programs, and we should not be giving SBA license to exclude anyone.There are likewise numerous other small businesses and non-profit organizations that lack accessto relief, including small businesses that do not have pre-existing lending relationships withbanks taking part in PPP and -- until recently -- religiously affiliated non-profit organizations andfarms. Under pressure to comply with Congressional intent, SBA reversed course on religiousnon-profits and farms, finally allowing them to receive support and pay their workers. Weapplaud Administrator Carranza and SBA for taking this important step. However, this shouldserve as a lesson that Congress must not leave such decisions for SBA's interpretation, butshould rather take a more prescriptive approach when updating the contours of PPP and anyfuture programs and what they require of SBA in order to provide relief to our small businesscommunities.With this in mind, we ask you to take steps to explicitly ensure that all legally-operating smallbusinesses and non-profit organizations that Congress has permitted to access COVID-19 smallbusiness relief have full access to PPP, EIDL, and any other COVID-19 small business reliefprograms by prohibiting SBA from directly or indirectly barring businesses from participating inthe program solely because of their involvement in a particular industry, their lack of history of alending relationship with a particular financial institution, or any other arbitrary criteria thatwould limit access to capital.Thank you for your attention to this important issue. We look forward to working with you onfinding a solution.