Letter to Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and Chuck Schumer, Senate Minority Leader - Warren Joins Jones to Urge Senate Leadership to Include Paycheck Security Proposal in Next COVID-19 Relief Package


Dear Senate Majority Leader McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Schumer:

We applaud the important and swift steps Congress took to provide immediate relief to Americansimpacted by the coronavirus. As you consider policies to address the economic and healthimplications of the coronavirus in a future package, we request our proposal, the Paycheck SecurityProgram, be incorporated as it would help prevent further job losses and alleviate the economicuncertainty facing American workers and businesses.

The Paycheck Security Program will use existing infrastructure to work to help companiesmaintain wages and benefits of employees of affected businesses and non-profits until theeconomic and public health crisis is resolved. The proposal will help cut some of the red tape thatis currently slowing down relief to the American workers who need it most.

Administered by the Treasury Department, the Paycheck Security Program would cover the wagesand benefits of furloughed or laid off employees of affected businesses and non-profits that haveexperienced a drop in revenues of at least 20 percent. Grants will cover salaries and wages up to$90,000 for each furloughed or laid off employee, plus benefits, as well as up to an additional 20percent of revenues to cover fixed operating costs such as rent, utilities, insurance policies, andmaintenance.

Companies receiving these grants must commit to a number of restrictions including maintainingpay and benefits of rank-and-file workers and offering to bring back workers laid off sinceFebruary 1st the opportunity to go back to participate in the program at prior level of compensation.In addition, they cannot engage in stock buybacks, pay dividends or management fees, cap CEOpay at 50 times the median wage of their workforce and protect collective bargaining agreements. 

During this tumultuous time, working people should not have to also worry about applying forunemployment, finding new health care, or losing their connection to their employer. This proposalwill help businesses that cannot access a loan program because they don't have a strong bankingrelationship or the ability to fill out all of the complicated paperwork, to stay in business duringthe health crisis and as soon as it lifts, reopen their stores and resume their operations.

American businesses and their employees are the heart and soul of our communities. Pleaseconsider including this program in the next coronavirus package to keep our communities thrivingand vibrant.

Sincerely,