McSally Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Lower Cost of Prescription Drugs for Seniors


U.S. Senators Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Doug Jones (D-AL) last week unveiled bipartisan legislation to incentivize the adoption of cheaper, FDA-approved biosimilars in the drug market, which will lower out-of-pocket costs for seniors and working families.

"I continue to hear from seniors and hard-working individuals in Arizona who've said they can't afford both their groceries and their medications, or they've been forced had to ration their prescriptions because of skyrocketing drug costs," McSally said. "This is unacceptable, and I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reduce drug prices and help Americans save more of their money. This bipartisan legislation will increase competition and access to these innovative products while saving the Medicare program and taxpayers billions of dollars."

"We need to make sure that folks can afford the prescription medicines they need," Jones said. "By eliminating these copays for seniors, we can reduce prices for some of the most expensive prescription drugs on the market."

Read the bill text HERE.

Background:

Similar to generic drugs, biosimilars are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and offer a lower-cost option to their more expensive biologic counterparts in treating complex diseases like cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, and Crohn's disease. Over the last decade, biologic products have accounted for nearly 40 percent of our country's total spending on prescription drugs despite representing only 2 percent of the market. Under Medicare Part B, most beneficiaries generally have to pay 20 percent of the cost of these drugs. 

This legislation, called the Acting to Cancel Copays and Ensure Substantial Savings for Biosimilars Act of 2020, or ACCESS Biosimilars, will:

Give an additional incentive for doctors and patients to utilize biosimilars by zeroing out whatever the Medicare beneficiary would owe.Eliminate the cost-sharing, or copay, for biosimilars currently on the market and those entering the market for a five-year period.