Senator Doug Jones Statement on Governor Ivey's COVID-19 Response Update


Senator Doug Jones (D-Ala.) released the following statement below in response to Governor Kay Ivey's announcement today that she is still considering proposals for re-opening Alabama's economy, but stressed the need for adequate testing before that decision can be made:

"I applaud Governor Ivey for taking a measured approach as she considers proposals to re-open our economy. Everyone wants to get our economy rolling again and I understand the incredible pressure the Governor is facing to rush this process and follow our neighboring states. Her remarks today about the importance of having more testing capacity than we currently have and putting our citizens' health care needs first are spot-on.  I also appreciate Dr. Harris' comments acknowledging the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on African-Americans in Alabama.

"Alabama has come a long way and I firmly believe that Governor Ivey's stay-at-home order, and the decision by Alabamians to practice social distancing, has saved lives. Even with all the success we've seen, we need to be mindful that we are by no means out of the woods yet. We must ensure we can sustain the good progress we have made on the health care crisis, but we can only do so if we have a strong testing regime in place, reduce cases for two consecutive weeks, and continue social distancing practices before we can responsibly and safely re-open our economy for business.  

"We still have a long road ahead to get back to normal, both in Alabama and across the country. We all want to get there as soon as possible, but we need to do it in a way that follows the data and the guidance of our public health officials. I understand the hardships our businesses and workers continue to face as we work to tackle the health crisis. In Congress, I am continuing to advocate for additional resources for our workers and small businesses, as well as our health care providers, local governments and farmers. Providing sufficient relief now will help our businesses stay afloat longer and not feel pressure to re-open before it's safe to do so."