Senator Doug Jones Welcomes New Alabama Stay-At-Home Order


U.S. Senator Doug Jones (D-Ala.) today welcomed Governor Kay Ivey's decision to issue a stay-at-home order for the state of Alabama. Senator Jones has for some time been a vocal proponent of aggressive social distancing measures and called for a stay-at-home order to be issued yesterday in a press conference in Birmingham. Senator Jones issued the following statement after Governor Ivey's announcement: 

"I am relieved Governor Ivey did the right thing today to keep Alabamians safe and healthy by issuing a stay-at-home order. We now have a clear and unambiguous directive and message for all Alabamians to heed that places everyone's health as our top priority. While I wished this action had been taken earlier, we must now all come together to comply with the letter and spirit of the Governor's order and minimize the spread of this virus. We can now turn our collective focus to ensuring we have the resources to test those who fear they have been infected, care for those who are sick, and protect our health care and other essential workers who are on the front lines of this crisis.

"As Governor Ivey said, at least 200 Alabama health care workers are themselves infected with COVID-19. First responders have also tested positive. No words can express the appreciation we should have for these brave professionals. We will continue to work with FEMA and AEMA to ensure that the federal government is delivering the financial assistance and supplies they promised--in good condition--and immediately deliver the tests, PPE, and ventilators that Alabama needs. 

"I also continue to emphasize Alabama must take all steps necessary to expand Medicaid immediately so we can provide health coverage for an additional 326,000 Alabamians. This crisis has shown us that we are all in this together, but it has also shown us that too many people can fall through the cracks of our health care system. I have been advocating for this for years, but now more than ever I hope folks understand the need to expand the program and help the most vulnerable of our community. It is simply the right thing to do--for our health and for our economy--and I hope our state leaders can set aside whatever politics has blocked this in the past to get this done now."