Senator Jones Calls for Answers on Space Command Headquarters Decision


U.S. Senator Doug Jones (D-Ala.) today questioned Secretary of Defense Mark Esper about why the Air Force had reportedly been directed to re-open the process in order to consider new, additional locations for the U.S. Space Command headquarters. The headquarters decision was initially expected by last fall and had reportedly been narrowed to locations in Alabama, California and Colorado, but the decision had been delayed for previously unknown reasons. In response to Senator Jones' questioning, Secretary Esper said he personally made the decision to reopen the process and that he does not expect a final decision to be made about the headquarters location until after the election this November.

Senator Jones has been a vocal advocate for the Space Command headquarters to be located at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama and has met repeatedly with several top DoD leaders, including Secretary Esper, to advocate for Redstone Arsenal as the clear best choice for the new headquarters.

Senate Armed Services Committee hearing: "Department of Defense Budget Posture"

Witnesses: Defense Secretary Mark Esper; General Mark A. Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff

Date: Wednesday, March 4, 2020

Senator Doug Jones: Thank you both for being here and for your service. I really appreciate your opportunity to come here. Secretary Esper, it would come as no surprise to folks here that I have been advocating Redstone Arsenal to be the head of Space Command. You and I have talked about that a good bit.

Secretary Mark Esper: Yes, sir.

Senator Jones: In May of 2019, before you were even the Acting Secretary, the list was winnowed down. There was a series of visits, an extensive process, it was winnowed down to a few sites, Redstone Arsenal was a part of those. Space Command was supposed to be announced in the fall, it wasn't and now we're in March and it's still not. And then yesterday, Lt. Gen. Thompson testified before the House Armed Services Committee that the Air Force has been directed -- and I emphasize the word directed -- to go back and open this up. He said, "open up the aperture and look at all of them including some non-traditional locations" and that they would establish the criteria, which I thought had already been established months, if not a couple years, ago and that none of these -- the list, Redstone Arsenal, and others, were on there. So, you know a cynical person would in today's world think that there was some political electoral politics coming into play into this, because Congress has wanted to do this and we've been supportive but now we're going to get delayed again in opening up this process. So I have a series of questions. Number one: did this come from the White House? If so, who? If it didn't, or if it did, was there pushback? If not, if it came from you or others, tell me how that process came up to open this up again cause a lot of folks have been looking at this for a long time.

Secretary Esper: Yes, Senator, it came from me.

Senator Jones: Alright.

Secretary Esper: I am the responsible party. During my talks on the Hill prior to my nomination, more particularly after my hearing here, I visited the House and I heard from members on both sides of the aisle that they felt that the process that had been run was unfair and not transparent and there were a number of complaints. So I directed at that time that we pause in place. I took a briefing on it along with Deputy Secretary Norquist and we did not feel as well that it was transparent enough, that enough states, members, etc., had a chance to participate. So we directed it be revisited and a different approach be taken where they outline the criteria -- the screening criteria -- by which a place would meet as a qualifying material that would go out to all members and offer them to nominate locations, if you will. We'd screen from there but do a very iterative, transparent thing where members could also comment on the criteria. We would update at various points in time and then keep narrowing it down, much like we did on Futures Command, till you got to the final sites so that everybody had confidence that it was fair and there were no politics involved in it and that it was the best site for the mission at hand. I regret to say that process began late. I had another revisit with them about a month ago, which is what probably prompted that testimony, but I'm the one that did it, it was my initiative, simply to make sure that there was transparency and buy-in and consent from members.

Senator Jones: How long will that process take now?

Secretary Esper: It's going to take several months. I think, I don't see anything being announced, if it helps assure you, I don't see anything being announced before the election.

Senator Jones: Alright.

Secretary Esper: And in fact, I would probably, regardless, I think it is probably best to keep it out of the election for the reasons you cited.