Tuskegee Airmen Day


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. JONES. Mr. President, I rise today in recognition of the  inaugural Tuskegee Airmen Day to be held annually on March 7 in the  State of Alabama, marking the anniversary of the first graduating class  of Tuskegee Airmen in Tuskegee, AL. After decades of being barred from  flying for the U.S. military, on March 19, 1941, the U.S. Department of  War created the all African-American 99th Pursuit Squadron in Tuskegee,  AL. Upon completing 1,600 missions, destroying over 250 aircraft, and  laying the foundation for President Harry S. Truman to desegregate the  U.S. military in 1948, this courageous, boundary-breaking group of 13  African-American men would go on to be known simply as the Tuskegee  Airmen. 

  Recently, the President signed H.R. 2500, the National Defense  Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, which approves the honorary  promotion of Documented Original Tuskegee Airman, U.S. Air Force  Colonel (retired) Charles E. McGee, to brigadier general. I believe it  is a well-deserved promotion for a hero the likes of General McGee. It  is my honor to commend and recognize General McGee, who is one of the  last surviving members of the Tuskegee Airmen. 

  Less than a year after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, General  McGee enlisted in the Army Air Forces on October 26, 1942. He went on  to become one of the first pilots to graduate from the experimental  Tuskegee Institute in June 1943. General McGee also has the distinction  of flying more combat missions in World War II, Korea, and Vietnam than  any other Air Force pilot. Brigadier General Charles McGee will be in  attendance at the inaugural Tuskegee Airmen Day ceremony in Alabama  this year. 

  For over half century, the courage, tenacity, and grit of General  McGee and all of his fellow Tuskegee Airmen have been a source of hope  and inspiration for generations of Americans. I congratulate the city  of Tuskegee and the State of Alabama for recognizing such a  distinguished group of servicemembers who helped change the course of  our Nation's history.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT