Welcoming Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew


Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I rise today to welcome to America His  All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, the spiritual leader of  the world's second-largest Christian Church--Orthodox Christianity-- which encompasses over 250 million faithful worldwide.

We in Louisiana take particular pride in welcoming His All-Holiness,  given that the very first Greek Orthodox Church in America, Holy  Trinity Church, was established in 1864 by Greek merchants in New  Orleans. This historic church welcomed Orthodox Christians of various  nationalities and backgrounds. To this day, Orthodox  Christians throughout Louisiana who worship in churches across our  State are held in high regard by their fellow citizens.

We are pleased that during this visit to America, Ecumenical  Patriarch Bartholomew will, as he has during previous trips, meet with  our President at the White House and with the leadership of both Houses  of Congress from both parties. We recognize that His All-Holiness is  among the very few world leaders who commands such high-level access to  the leadership of our Nation.

The U.S. Congress expressed its profound respect and admiration for  His All-Holiness in 1997 when it awarded him the Congressional Gold  Medal, Congress' highest honor. This distinguished award has been  bestowed upon such luminaries as George Washington and Winston  Churchill. Remarkably, the legislation for His All-Holiness's Gold  Medal attracted more of the Members of Congress as cosponsors than any  other bill introduced during that entire congressional session. This  Gold Medal also recognized the significant international and historical  role the Ecumenical Patriarch has played throughout his lifetime.  Historic international figures who received the Congressional Gold  Medal immediately before and after His All-Holiness were Mother Teresa  and Nelson Mandela.

We also acknowledge the extraordinary historic role His All-Holiness  has served as the longest tenured Ecumenical Patriarch in history. It  is significant that Jesus Christ's first Apostle Andrew and his brother  Peter each established distinct spheres of Christian influence. The  Apostle Andrew established his ministry in the region that encompasses  present-day Turkey, and Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew stands as the  269th direct successor of the Apostle Andrew. Similarly, the Apostle  Andrew's brother the Apostle Peter traveled to what is today the  Vatican, and Pope Leo XIV serves as the 267th successor of the Apostle  Peter.