Alex Padilla


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692451/alex-padilla


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I come to the floor to join my  colleagues to express outrage over the actions taking place in Los  Angeles when our dear colleague Alex Padilla, Senator Padilla, was  thrown out of an event where he was just simply trying to express his  opinion on behalf of the millions of Californians that he represents.

It is so interesting to me that this situation happened because not  that long ago in the State of Washington, in Olympia, we had a bill  signing, and it is no secret in the State of Washington that a guy  named Tim Eyman is probably the antithesis of what our Governor Bob  Ferguson believes.

He fights him on all sorts of initiatives to the people about  policies that Mr. Eyman wants to express. So he is a noted individual  in our State.

So Mr. Eyman shows up at a press conference to basically protest a  bill that the Governor is going to sign.

And he gets into the Governor's office, and he stands right behind  our Governor. One of our legislators, who basically wants the Governor  to know that this individual, who he disagrees with--doesn't support  this bill--has now snuck into the Governor's press conference.

So what does our Governor do? He turns around, and he looks at Mr.  Eyman, and he says, ``Oh, why are you here?''

And he said, ``I'm here to protest this.''

And the Governor turns around and delivers his remarks. Because, you  know why? Because our Governor was not afraid what Tim Eyman said. Our  Governor didn't think, You throw him out of the building, and he is  just a constituent.

It is not like he is a State rep. It is not like he got elected by  people. Our Governor was not afraid to let this voice be heard. But  somehow, ICE and Homeland Security are afraid of the voice of Alex  Padilla. They are afraid of Alex Padilla's presence in a room.

Now, how can that be in the United States of America that a Senator  elected by the people of his State, who simply wants to go to a public  meeting and have his voice heard on behalf of his constituents, is  handcuffed and thrown to the ground?

It is not acceptable. Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle  need to say, ``This is not acceptable.''

Are we trying to freeze the voice of dissent? Are we trying to say  that we cannot understand what true public policy discourse is about? I  think we  showed in Olympia, WA, that we are big enough to take it, that we know  that if somebody disagrees with us, we are not going to get them thrown  out.

And in this case, to have a U.S. Senator handcuffed and thrown to the  ground is disrespectful. It is an atrocity. We need to understand how  this is happening and if this administration or this side of the aisle  thinks that is the way you treat the voice of a U.S. Senator expressing  dissent.