Cantwell, Bipartisan Washington Delegation Requests Funding to Enhance Salmon and Orca Recovery at Howard A. Hanson Dam


Today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined U.S. Representative Kim Schrier, M.D. (D-WA-08) and the entire bipartisan Washington congressional delegation in support of a project central to Puget Sound salmon recovery and the growth of food supplies to Southern resident orcas. The delegation sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting that the next phase of the Howard A. Hanson Dam (HAHD) project in Auburn, Washington, be funded and prioritized in the FY2020 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Work Plan. In addition to Senator Cantwell and Representative Schrier, the letter was signed by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01), Rick Larsen (D-WA-02), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA-03), Dan Newhouse (R-WA-04), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA-05), Derek Kilmer (D-WA-06), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA07), Adam Smith (D-WA-09), and Denny Heck (D-WA-10).

A 2019 Biological Opinion (BiOp) issued by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) found that the construction of a downstream fish passage facility at HAHD was necessary for the recovery of salmon and steelhead stocks and the recovery of Southern resident orcas. The members' request encourages the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and OMB to continue progress on this vital regional project.

"Federal funding is needed to complete the design and cost estimate phase of the fish passage facility at Howard Hanson Dam to ensure salmon and steelhead are able to move upriver to spawning habitat and complete returns to Puget Sound," the members wrote in their letter. "Completing downstream fish passage would reopen at least 60 miles of prime salmon and steelhead habitat above Howard Hanson Dam, nearly doubling the amount of habitat currently available."  

"Restoring fish runs above Howard Hanson Dam, which requires a downstream passage system for the dam, is the largest single gain in potential salmon production in Puget Sound," added the Green/Duwamish and Central Puget Sound Watershed (WRIA 9).

"As we think about Northwest projects to recover endangered salmon and steelhead stocks, fish passage improvements at Howard Hanson Dam are a great choice.  These improvements will benefit not just our fish, but orcas as well.  NOAA Fisheries has identified Puget Sound Chinook runs as some of the most critical to the survival of Southern Resident Killer Whales. We are pleased to see the Washington Congressional delegation unite in supporting critical funding to move this project forward," said Kristin Meira, Executive Director of Pacific Northwest Waterways Association (PNWA).

"I want to thank the entire Washington Congressional Delegation for coming together to support this uniquely important project for salmon and orca recovery and to provide reliable, clean drinking water," said Victoria Woodards, Mayor of Tacoma. "Getting this project underway is an important step for our entire region."

Completing the activities outlined in the February 15, 2019 NOAA Fisheries BiOp would provide 60 miles of necessary salmon and steelhead habitat. The additional habitat will increase salmon populations and support Southern resident orcas currently listed under the Endangered Species Act. Moving forward on this project will also facilitate the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' continued operation of the HAHD project to protect the Green River Valley from flooding, increase drinking water storage capacity, and uphold the federal government's trust responsibilities to impacted Tribes.