Cantwell, Colleagues Promote U.S. Potato Industry in Ongoing China Trade Discussions


As the United States and China negotiate a more fair and free trade agreement between the two nations, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined U.S. Senator Jim Risch (R-ID) and U.S. Representatives Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) today in a letter to the Trump administration asking that the U.S. potato industry be a priority in the ongoing talks. In the bipartisan, bicameral letter signed by 39 members of Congress, they noted that a U.S.-China potato trade deal would create significant economic growth and result in new jobs. 

"As you and the members of your administration work with the People's Republic of China to resolve trade disputes, we request your attention to an agriculture trade issue that has gone unresolved for nearly 20 years," the members wrote to the president. "Notwithstanding the diligent efforts of the United States Trade Representative and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), China has not opened their market to fresh potatoes from the United States and has left U.S. potato growers without a clear path forward on how to resolve concerns that are standing in the way of opening this important market." 

The U.S. potato industry has a $3.7 billion farm gate value, and that success relies on finding an international market for one out of five potatoes produced. Since 2000, opening access to China for U.S. fresh potatoes has been a priority for U.S. potato growers and included on every bilateral agenda. 

"If access to China's fresh potato market is granted to the United States, it is estimated that China could become a top five market for U.S. potato exports," the members continued. "This would result in new jobs in communities throughout the country and ensure the U.S. potato industry remains competitive in the international marketplace. For this reason, we ask that the USTR ensures that new market opportunities for US potatoes are included in any trade negotiations with China." 

In addition to Cantwell, Risch, Simpson, and Schrader, the letter was also signed by U.S. Senators Mike Crapo (R-ID), Angus King (I-ME), Susan Collins (R-ME), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Tina Smith (D-MN), John Hoeven (R-ND), Patty Murray (D-WA), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), and Michael Bennet (D-CO), and U.S. Representatives Russ Fulcher (R-ID), Kelly Armstrong (R-ND), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Ken Buck (R-CO), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Greg Gianforte (R-MT), Denny Heck (D-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Jared Golden (D-ME), Daniel Kildee (D-MI), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), John Moolenaar (R-MI), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Paul Mitchell (R-MI), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Scott Tipton (R-CO), Greg Walden (R-OR).