Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688520/coast-guard-authorization-act-of-2025


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise to support Senator Cruz in our  efforts here to pass the Coast Guard bill. Chairman Cruz and I worked  diligently on this bill in the last Congress with many of our  colleagues.

Unfortunately, the clock ran out, and we are here today to pass this  important legislation. We hope our House colleagues will just take this  up and pass it as well. The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025  provides the tools that our Coast Guard needs now to protect our  shores, keep our maritime moving, and the Coast Guard and its  responsibilities need the support of this legislation.

All in, the Coast Guard is responsible for facilitating over $5  trillion of maritime commerce in our waterways. The Coast Guard is also  the sole operator of icebreakers in our polar regions, and they are our  primary force charged with the stopping of pirate fishing from China,  Russia, and other dark fishing fleets that are stealing American  fishing jobs. The issues in the Arctic are real, and we have  highlighted them many times, and this bill will help address that.

Passage of this measure now will enable us to further provide the  Coast Guard additional assets like icebreakers, hopefully in the  upcoming reconciliation bill, and the Coast Guard also helps stops the  flow of illegal drugs in the maritime environment. This legislation  also strengthens each of the Coast Guard's missions and authorizes a  30-percent budget increase to support that workforce.

I noted the President last night talked about shipbuilding in  general. We are enthusiastic about that mission. I know that in budget  reconciliation, people are already, the chairman of the committee,  talking about the Coast Guard and $20 billion to help us recapitalize  our Coast Guard fleet. Replacing the aging and inadequate equipment,  from icebreakers to offshore patrol cutters to heavy weather boats to  MH-60 helicopters and C-130 aircrafts are all important.

But beyond the modernization, there are other things. It includes in  Base Seattle, the homeport to our Nation's current icebreakers, the  future heavy icebreaker fleet, and the needs for the Arctic Nation that  we are, now defending against Chinese and Russian aggression. The bill  also reauthorizes the Puget Sound Whale Desk for another 2 years, which  helps ships steer clear of our cherished orca and whale populations. It  also increases collaboration between Washington Tribes and the Coast  Guard. And the bill invests in critical safety programs. We are very  proud of all of that.

But one of the most important things in the bill is, obviously,  dealing with the workforce--making sure that we have access to medical  care, housing, and behavioral health and to deal with what we know in  2023 was a decades long, uncovered, sexual assault and sexual violence  coverup in the Coast Guard.

Operation Fouled Anchor identified 62 substantiated incidents of  rape, sexual assault, and sexual harassment perpetrated by at least 42  individuals. The Coast Guard took action on only two of those subjects.

Due to the lack of oversight and the Coast Guard's mishandling of  this, these individuals were allowed to retire, some at the grade of  commander, with full benefits, and they received no punishment. That is  unacceptable.

In 2023 December, former Commandant Schultz admitted to withholding  information from Congress and stating that, ``He made this decision,  and he stands by it.'' That is why, as chairman and working then with  Senator Cruz and their oversight efforts, we did everything we could to  make sure that this story came out and that we address it in this  legislation.

This issue of failure to do this is--this is why we need  transparency, this is why we need to make sure that we continue to  address our workforce issues in the Federal Government.

The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025 would strengthen  authorities and programs to hold perpetrators accountable, enhance  investigative and legal processes, improve victim recovery services and  access to care, as well as boosting training.

These reforms would extend the Coast Guard protections available to  members of the Armed Forces in general, in the whole Department of  Defense, and it establishes a comprehensive prevention training and  reporting requirement to address the issues identified in our  investigation.

Moving forward, we have more to do to support the Coast Guard. They  needed our help with their assets, and they need access to shipyards.  This morning, during the Commerce Committee, I said I would work with  my colleagues on all the shipbuilding efforts to help us meet our key  global shipping competitiveness issues, to ensure that American farmers  and manufacturers have access to global markets, and to make sure that  we continue to invest in the best people for the Coast Guard.

To do that, we have to pass this legislation and get it on to the  President's desk.

So I thank my staff Nikky Teutschel, Melissa Porter, Lila Helms, and  all of the committee staff that worked on this bill. And again, thank  the chairman, Chairman Cruz, for bringing this bipartisan measure to  the floor today.