Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. CANTWELL. Madam President, I come to the floor to speak about the  ongoing crisis of the novel coronavirus outbreak and to urge all of us  to pass this supplemental as quickly as possible. 

  As of this morning, there are 163 confirmed cases in 17 States across  the country, but no State has been more hard hit than the State of  Washington. 

  We now have 39 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and more than 230 people  under public health monitoring. We have lost 10 of our citizens. Our  thoughts and prayers are with those families who have lost loved ones,  and there are still families who have loved ones in nursing homes and  who are trying to make sure they get the appropriate care in this  ongoing crisis. 

  I would also like to thank the workers who are on the frontlines of  this healthcare crisis and are doing everything they can to help keep  our citizens safe. 

  What is clear in this supplemental is that we need more resources for  testing. The testing capabilities will help our communities understand  the community transfer of this virus and what else we need to do to  help stop its spread. 

  Some of the funding in this supplemental can be helpful for our  smaller public labs to do more testing to help our public health  officials respond to this crisis, and, as I urged yesterday, for the  CDC and others to make it clear through our public health sites exactly  how the public can go about getting access to testing. 

  This is so critical because I know there are people in the State of  Washington who feel ill, who feel they might be subject to this  coronavirus and aren't getting tested. We want to make sure the public  clearly understands what their paths are for getting those tests, and  we want to make sure that every lab--commercial and academic--in the  United States is getting prepared to help us in the advent of the  spread of this virus. Why? Because helping to identify these early  cases is what will help us be successful in understanding these  patterns and further the community separations that we need to do. 

  Why is this so important? Well, today in the State of Washington,  they are taking major steps. Major employers are encouraging their  employees, if possible, to work from home. These are companies like  Microsoft and Facebook and Amazon--major employers.  

  We have 23 schools that have closed and 2 school districts that are  entirely shut down. Why are they doing this? Because they are taking  precautions for people who have been exposed to the coronavirus in  those schools, and they are doing everything they can to make sure that  they respond correctly. 

  In addition, King County has recommended that anyone over the age of  60, anyone with a preexisting medical condition, or anyone who is  pregnant should avoid public places and gatherings as much as possible. 

  We are taking all these steps now because we are at the epicenter of  this crisis, but I want people to know that there are other things that  other States can be doing to learn from what we have done in  Washington. 

  The fact is that we had a flu lab that actually was a collaboration  among our academic and scientific and health communities to get people  who thought they simply had the flu to also be tested, and we found  cases of the coronavirus. That actually is something you have to set up  and get permission for. I hope that every State will follow suit and  set up such a cohort of people working together to share that  information so that we can help prevent the spread. 

  Washington State will receive $11.5 million in funding to help the  Department of Health respond to this crisis. I know the Vice President  is visiting our Governor in Olympia, WA, today. I hope these funds in  this bill we are passing today will increase access for public lab  testing, help pay for isolation and quarantine, help pay for sanitizing  in public areas, better track the areas and those who might come into  contact with it, help labs that are trying to identify hot spots, and  limit exposure. 

  As part of this package, Washington State will also be helped with  reimbursements since the outbreak of this virus--and I can tell you  that they are many--and to help us push through the protocols that  would help us establish better responses. 

  Yesterday, we had a hearing in the Aviation Subcommittee to talk  about what is needed for an aviation protocol. I know that some  airlines in our State are doing everything possible to clean planes on  every turn of the trip and to do deep cleaning. They are  communicating--and we have encouraged them to communicate more--with  their passengers exactly what they are doing to help with the  mitigation of this virus. But that is not a substitute for the  Department of Transportation, federally, and the CDC, collaboratively,  to work in giving guidance to airlines on what standards they should be  meeting to help mitigate the spread of this virus. 

  My colleagues and I are calling on them to do that, not simply to  think of this as other agencies' responsibilities but to work  collaboratively to get this done. 

  I want to thank the Appropriations Committee for getting this  legislation to us today and all of our colleagues who have worked so  quickly on making it happen. I can tell you that we need these funds;  we need them now; and we need other States to heed the early testing  that would have been helpful in our State and now may be helpful in  yours. 

  Let's get as aggressive about testing as possible. Let's get  aggressive about sharing information about the flu and tracking this  virus. Let's get aggressive about trying to mitigate the impacts of  this deadly disease. 

  I thank the Presiding Officer. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT