En Bloc Nominations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695964/en-bloc-nominations


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I believe every Senator knows and agrees  that our constituents are concerned about the cost of healthcare. Just  this morning, I heard some of my Republican colleagues also talking  about healthcare affordability. The difference is, I think our  Democratic side of the aisle wants to do something about it now. We  want to fix one of the biggest health insurance spikes that we are  going to see locked-in in 2026 in just a few weeks. We want to do  everything we can to stop that.

We know that when you kick Americans off of their health insurance,  it hurts all Americans. Democrats know that a vague promise to fix it  in the future doesn't help us solve the problems of healthcare delivery  today. And we know that the problem is worse than we even imagined just  a few weeks ago.

Yesterday, the Kaiser Family Foundation released a new report on how  expensive the premiums which the ACA expiration--the Affordable Care  Act expiration of those premiums--may cost American families. The  answer is, it is going to hurt a lot. The new report found that out-of- pocket premiums for a single person would more than double on average  next year if the enhanced premium tax credits expire.

That is, we have had insurance commissioners and various offices  across various States trying to make guesstimates about this, but  increasing from $880 a year to $1,900 a year in 2026 just shows you how  dramatic that situation could be for American families. These are  families who will have to shoulder these unnecessary increases. They  will be on top of all the other inflationary issues that they are  dealing with now, issues like household goods, gas prices, electricity,  housing, groceries, and now we want to throw at them healthcare costs.

We are very clear on our side of the aisle: We want the maximum  amount of people to get health insurance, drive down uncompensated  care, drive down everybody's cost, and deliver good healthcare for our  citizens. Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, the uninsured  rate was cut in half from almost 16 percent--roughly 15.7 percent  in 2010--down to an alltime low of 7.7 percent in 2023. So the result  is not just healthy Americans having their cost decreased by taking  uncompensated care out of the system. It is remarkable progress towards  getting everyone covered and having net savings for everybody.

We know that the current majority on the other side of the aisle,  they are no fan of the Affordable Care Act. They are no fan even of  universal coverage. If you can imagine, we are not even being  prescriptive. We just say, ``We want to see universal coverage.'' We  want everybody to have health insurance. Not only do they not agree  with that, they have tried to repeal or weaken the Affordable Care Act  50 times in the past decade--50 times they have gone after the  Affordable Care Act, and they have failed.

One time, thanks to the courage of the late Senator John McCain and  two of my other colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the last  significant threat to our healthcare system was defeated in 2017. Maybe  some people here still working on the floor remember that dramatic  moment.

But now, with the passage of this budget reconciliation act in July,  Republicans are trying to reverse the progress of the Affordable Care  Act. Congratulations, you are having an effect. You are taking that act  and healthcare out of the system. You may be trying to do it in a sneak  attack. You may be trying to do it in a vague way, but we are on to the  fact that you are trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, and you  are trying to get rid of the ability for Americans to get affordable  insurance coverage.

So what now? What are we going to do to prevent rural hospitals from  closing? Everyone knows that $50 billion in your slush fund that was  part of the reconciliation bill is not enough to save rural hospitals,  even if he uses it, even if the President would use it just on so- called red States, it is not enough. And now, you are going to say that  15 million Americans who no longer have the Affordable Care Act  marketplace plans or the Medicaid coverage that was stripped out of the  healthcare system, we are not going to have that.

So you have no ideas on how you are going to help keep people insured  or keep these hospitals operating. So, instead of meaningful  negotiations, my colleagues have decided they don't want to tell us  what their ideas are to deal with the current crisis. It is not a next  year problem; it is a today problem. So instead of using jurisdictional  powers like the Finance Committee--they could have come up with a  solution. They could have come up with a meeting today. Instead, they  were having a hearing on cryptocurrency.

If you thought this issue was so important, why didn't you have a  hearing today on how to make health insurance more affordable for the  American people? Even if you didn't want to address this particular  idea, how is it that you want to have a meeting on cryptocurrency or  give tax breaks to oil companies, but you don't want to deal with the  health insurance problems of the American people? So instead of working  with their counterparts or the House of Representatives--oh, wait, the  House of Representatives, they are not even here, and yet we are in  this situation.

So who are you neglecting? You are neglecting your constituents. You  are neglecting 5 million Americans, including 80,000 Washingtonians,  who are not going to be able to have affordable insurance by the end of  this year. They will have to make a decision in November and December,  but we already know from projections, 80,000 of them will make a  decision because they just simply can't afford it.

Back to those numbers that were on the chart earlier: When you look  at households and incomes, somebody might say, ``Oh, well, somebody  might be able to afford $840.'' Well, not if you are a family of four  on $40,000. You are not going to afford that if you are on $75,000 of  income, and now, you are going to pay $3,368 more--or even $90,000 of  income. I got news for people: Seattle is one of the most expensive  places in the country to live, and coming up with now, all of a sudden,  $3,000 more for health insurance that you didn't think you were going  to have to pay? People are going to make the wrong decisions.

God forbid that these people get sick or have a condition that is  really life-threatening, and who is going to be responsible for taking  this out of the system because people don't want to come up with a  solution today? It is not that hard. We can extend these tax credits.  We can have affordable health insurance in the market. We can talk as  an organization of people who--by the way, Finance Committee is charged  with looking at this issue and discussing it. That is why we fought so  hard in the Affordable Care Act for something called the Basic Health  Program, which covered people under the 200 percent of the Federal  poverty line and provided more important health insurance.

But right now, we need to act. We need to say to families who are  going to be threatened by this that we can work together and we have a  plan. And our plan is going to be able to be implemented immediately.

What is more important than having millions of Americans lose their  health insurance? And then basically say, ``We don't really care about  this, when we already are teetering on so much inflation, so many  affordability issues, so much of people struggling.'' And if people  think we really recovered from a post-Covid era, we haven't. People are  still struggling with the aftermath and the effects of that, and now,  we are basically saying we are going to add to your insurance.

So, as I did a few days ago here on the Senate floor, I came and  talked about how States are now putting these numbers out, a lot of  States. When I found this out this summer, I did many events across the  State of Washington trying to bring awareness to the public about this,  and I found out that some States were really trying to hide the ball-- like they literally didn't want to tell people these costs were going  up. Maybe they thought they were going to wait until after the  enrollment period opened, when there was nothing you can do much past  that. But these States are seeing astronomical costs for health  insurance--the State of Texas, a 39-percent increase; Arizona, a 48.95- percent increase.

So, somehow, these numbers were not available to the broader public,  and we published a report last week making sure that the biggest  insurers in that State--and we were projecting what the State's  insurance commissioner or other groups and organizations were saying  that this increase is. And now, the Kaiser Foundation is putting an  even brighter light on what those numbers are, saying that probably  that most people will just see an actual doubling of their premiums.

So how can it be okay to--and even if you thought, ``Well, okay, 5  million Americans, they are just going to be short changed. No  problem.'' It is not that. It is when those people don't have health  insurance, it affects the whole system. It takes that progress we made  in the uninsured rate, driving it down from 16 or so--15 percent to 16  percent, down to 7 percent, and it means that you are not raising the  cost on the entire system by seeing a bunch of people with  uncompensated care.

We did this to cover citizens because it was the smart thing to do,  and my colleagues should just come to the table and say, ``We agree. We  need to fix this now. We agree that an open enrollment period that  starts as early as October 15 in one or two States and starts for  everybody November 1 is on us now. And if we don't send the right  signal, this is the catastrophe that is going to happen for people, and  that we really do care about affordable health insurance.''

At a time when we already have price increases in, as I said, a lot  of household items, now is not the time to put healthcare on the list  and crush families with this extra burden. Let's sit down and get this  done.