Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I come to the floor today after my  colleagues have held a moment of silence for the passing of George  Floyd. His family should not be preparing for his funeral today. All  Americans, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, gender, or sexual  orientation, deserve to have equal protection under the law. 

  It is time that we not just speak out about injustice; it is time  that we pass new Federal laws to protect the civil liberties of U.S.  citizens and protect them from these injustices. What is our role here  in the U.S. Senate? I believe it comes to passing new laws for those  Federal protections. 

  The U.S. Attorney General is the top law enforcement of our country.  He directs and supervises U.S. attorneys that prosecute Federal crimes. 

  The Attorney General is supposed to make sure that citizens in our  country have equal protection of the law. He is supposed to uphold the  Fourth Amendment protections against unreasonable seizure and the Civil  Rights Act, that protects against excessive use of force by police. 

  It is not about calling out the military. It is about protecting the  civil liberties of our U.S. citizens. He is supposed to enforce 18 U.S.  Code Sec 242, which prohibits the deprivation of rights under the color  of law. It criminalizes abuse by police. 

  The U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division is supposed to  step in  when police departments have serious abuses. The Civil Rights Division  is responsible for enforcing Federal prohibitions on patterns or  practices of policing that violate the Constitution or other Federal  laws. 

  It conducts investigations of allegations of systemic police  misconduct and reaches comprehensive agreements on reforms that are  needed to restore effective policing and trust with communities. If it  cannot reach an agreement, the Division will bring a Federal lawsuit to  compel the needed reforms. 

  Yes, we have something to do here in Washington. 

  Throughout U.S. history, the Civil Rights Division has played a major  role in a number of critical cases, including the prosecution and  murders of Medgar Evers and Dr. Martin Luther King. 

  Yes, we have something to do here in Washington. 

  The Obama administration made policing reform a priority. The Civil  Rights Division was active in helping oversee pattern and practices of  police department abuses and entered numerous consent decrees with  Seattle, with New Orleans, on Ferguson, with Baltimore, and with  Cleveland. 

  Why? Because we had cases that needed that Federal oversight. We saw  that there were abuses of use of force across the country, including  even in my home State, that we needed to address. 

  In 2006, Otto Zehm, a man with developmental disabilities, was  wrongly accused of stealing money from an ATM. Mr. Zehm was improperly  hog-tied by police, placed on his stomach, and he died from lack of  oxygen to his brain. As he was dying, he said, ``I was just on my way  to get a Snicker bar.'' 

  It breaks my heart that somebody with disabilities was treated this  way. There was a Federal indictment in this case and the police officer  was found guilty of excessive use of force, lying to investigators  about the confrontation. As a result of a civil case, the Spokane  police were required to receive special training on interaction with  mentally ill suspects and detainees. 

  In 2010, John T. Williams, a Native American, a seventh-generation  woodcarver who used his knife to make street art, was fatally shot  seven times in the back by Seattle police. He had hearing difficulties  and mental health challenges. Literally, he was just carving in one  spot and decided to move across the street to another spot. When he  didn't respond to the officer, he was shot and killed. The officer who  killed Mr. Williams wasn't charged, but the U.S. Department of Justice  did investigate and found that there was a pattern and practice of  abuse by Seattle police. 

  The U.S. Department of Justice and Seattle agreed on a consent  decree, which required a number of reforms. 

  And now, just recently, an African American named Manuel Ellis died  from respiratory arrest due to physical restraint by a Tacoma police  officer. This just happened in March of 2020. Meth and an enlarged  heart contributed to his death, but the Pierce County medical examiner  ruled his death a homicide, and his case is under investigation. 

  All of these issues in the State of Washington led our citizenry to  have a debate about this. In 2018, 62 percent of Washington voters  approved ballot initiative 940. It required de-escalation. It required  training for police officers to understand how to help and deal with  the public. It mandated first aid to a victim of deadly force, and it  required an outside investigation into the use of that deadly force. 

  It also removed the requirement that prosecutors prove malice to hold  police officers criminally liable for use of deadly force. And that  continues to need improvement in our state. 

  These were steps in the right direction, but these events in the last  several weeks have showed us that it is not time to step back from this  issue; it is time to pass new Federal legislation. 

  Under the Trump administration and Attorney General Barr, the U.S.  Department of Justice Civil Rights Division police practices group has  been reduced to half. It has not opened a major pattern-or-practice  investigation of police departments' violation of civil and  constitutional rights. President Trump and his administration have  pulled back from Department of Justice's important oversight role, at a  time we can see that we need more of a Federal role, not less. 

  In November 2018, then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions changed the  Department of Justice policy to make it even harder for the Department  to perform its oversight role of our police departments. He made it  harder for the Department of Justice to reach dissent decrees with  State and city governments and limited the reforms that they could  require. 

  The Trump administration has shown that it isn't interested in the  community policing programs that have shown success in the past. There  are numbers that statistically show that better investment in community  policing helps us lower the crime rate. 

  In 2017, the Trump administration led the U.S. Department of Justice  to significantly scale back on the Obama-era program called  Collaborative Reform Initiative, which provided support to improve  trust between police and communities. And under the Trump  administration, it no longer strongly supports consent decrees, which  have been so helpful in holding local cities and police departments  accountable for civil rights abuses. 

  The Trump administration tried to defund the Office of Community  Policing and Services Program. Thank god our colleagues have refused  that. This provides important Federal funding help hire community  policing and officers and to provide technical assistance. 

  I think this stands in stark contrast to President Obama, who  requested that the COPS program be funded each year in his budget  request. 

  But all of this brings us to where we are today. What the citizenry  of the United States of America is telling us is that we need better  laws on the books. I believe we need to act here. The death of George  Floyd has shown us that there is a clarion call and a need for more  Federal action. 

  I believe in these things: I believe that we should have a  prohibition on chokeholds and knee restraints that cut off oxygen to  the brain. 

  I believe that we should, just like the State of Washington, provide  for more Federal support for de-escalation training. 

  I believe in establishing a Federal standard for the use of body  cameras, and when they should be mandatory, because I think they should  be, and making sure that what happens to the video is available, and  that the public knows and understands what is happening. 

  I believe in requiring an independent investigation, just like we did  under State statute--and by the way, that initiative that was voted on,  with some of these provisions in them, in the State of Washington, and  received 60-percent approval from the Washingtonians of our State. Why?  Because they believe these things are essential. The Duckworth bill  provides for a independent investigation when deadly force has been  used, and we should be making this the Federal law of the land. 

  And we need to provide more support for community policing, and not  just the dollars but accountability for when and how the dollars are  used, so the community knows exactly what is going on with the Federal  dollars for community policing. 

  And we need to require the Attorney General and Assistant Attorney  General, who lead the USDOJ Civil Rights Division, to vigorously  identify and end patterns and practices of abuse in police departments  and seek penalties for those who haven't. 

  I suggest a Federal audit every year where there are practices and  patterns of abuse and give us the information so that we in Congress  can also help in holding those accountable for not meeting the Federal  standards of upholding citizenries' civil rights. 

  And we need to create a clear Federal standard on the use deadly  force, just like the Washington State voters did when they passed  legislation. Whether we do it like the Washington voters in ending the  defense on malice, or whether we look at what my colleagues Senator  Booker, Harris, and Markey have suggested, let's have that debate. 

  I am ready to say to my side of the aisle: Let's get these issues--I  mentioned seven of them--let's get them out here. I am asking my  colleagues on this side of the aisle: let's engage on this Federal  debate and show the citizenry of America that we hear them.  

  Let's not also just be deaf to the plight and fate that our officers  are dealing with every day on the streets of America. We need more  funding to help our police departments. We definitely, in some cases,  need additional pay. But for this, we also need to deal with our  housing crisis, our mental health crisis, our opioid addiction crisis.  So many of our men and women in blue are policing our streets not for  crimes but for dealing with the population that is living on the  streets. We need to do better here than to shortchange them and to not  help--not to help correct these situations that have now become day-to- day tasks in what has never been part of the law enforcement effort. 

  I ask my colleagues, let's put our differences aside to get real  action on these. There is a Federal role on civil rights enforcement.  Let's take that role seriously, let's respond to the death, and do  something about it. I know that the best way to honor George Floyd  today would be to help pass the laws that help protect the citizenry of  our State. We are a great country, and we can do better by meeting this  challenge. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT