Healthcare


Ms. CANTWELL. Now, Mr. President, I rise today to urge my colleagues  to continue to work on the affordable care issues that are facing our  Nation. We know that we have to work together to address the Affordable  Care Act and that the system needs to continue to have updates.

We know that in this time period since 2010, the uninsured rate in  the United States was a staggering 18.2 percent. After the enactment of  the ACA, which significantly expanded coverage, around 45 million  Americans had access to either Medicaid or the ACA plans--and that is  that we actually cut by more than half the uninsured rate to an alltime  low in 2023 of 7 percent.

Now, in my home State, we took advantage of the Affordable Care Act  and further drove the uninsured rate down to 4 percent, significantly  reducing hospitals' and providers' financial burden from providing  uncompensated care. So there has much been said about these individual  provisions in the Affordable Care Act on the exchange, but the bottom  line is--that ability for the Affordable Care Act to drive the  uninsured rate in half to an alltime low of 7 percent and 4 percent in  my State is a great example of what it did to help lower costs across  the whole system.

There are still some challenges on the exchange, and there are more  affordable ways to deal with that population on the exchange. I  authored one of them called the Basic Health Program. It is now working  in three States and soon to be the District of Columbia, and that is  definitely thousands of dollars cheaper per year than what you can buy  on the exchange. And I would encourage all of us to look at that as a  solution for the future.

But according to a report from the Commonwealth Fund, States that  expanded Medicaid through the Affordable Care Act saw an average 40- percent decrease in uncompensated care. Another, the Center for Budget  and Policy, basically, as this chart shows, found that the Affordable  Care Act reduced uncompensated care costs by more than $6 billion in  expansion states.

Just imagine--reduce the cost by $6 billion by just covering people  and not having this tragedy of uncompensated care. Literally, I have  had hospitals tell me that one person can cost millions of dollars by  just constantly coming to the hospital. If they would have just had  healthcare, had insurance, their costs would have been covered, instead  of the constant uncompensated care costs.

So the real challenge here is that since the passage of the ACA, our  colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the Republicans, have been  trying to repeal this bill that cut the uninsured rate in half,  provided care that was affordable in the Medicaid expansion and covered  other things, as in the basic plan, they tried to repeal all that 70  times--70 times. OK. So I am not surprised that we are days away from a  vote, and yet they are still not coming together to show us how they  are going to reduce healthcare costs.

We need to keep covering people because covering people is a way to  help reduce costs. As I mentioned, the expansion of the Basic Health  Program is one way to lower those costs. But I know that in this last  big bill passed by my colleagues, they basically cut $1 trillion from  the healthcare system, taking away health insurance from 15 million  Americans, raising the healthcare costs and basically creating  challenges. I know in one Seattle Times headline, basically,  ``Washington health care insurers fret as the ACA subsidies remain in  limbo.'' That is because people are following what we are doing--or I  should say not doing--and they are trying to understand where they are  going to get affordable insurance.

I heard from a woman in Spokane, she has a chronic lung disease and  recently fractured her knee. Her premium has gone from $723 per month  to $2,180 per month. Her only option, a plan with less coverage, has a  lower premium, but makes her liable for 30 percent of all hospital and  ER payments, making the plan incredibly risky. She is just a year and a  half away from qualifying for Medicare, but these massive costs mean  she and her husband will have to cut back on groceries and other  expenses.

I heard from another constituent in Clark County. She works three  jobs, but none of them--none of them provide healthcare. Because of the  expiring subsidies, the cost of her basic bronze plan has doubled to  $1,050 per month with a deductible of $9,000. She is going to an  occupational therapy provider for arthritis. But when she got the  $1,000 cost estimate, she canceled.

Another constituent from Long Beach, WA, told me her son has mental  health issues, and she helps pay for his housing. But if her premiums  go up, she will have to make the difficult decision about getting care  for her son or a roof over their head or this issue of premiums.

We know the costs are rising for other things, like groceries,  prescription drugs, and other necessities. So health insurance is going  to push people off of a financial stability. If Congress doesn't extend  the expiring ACA credits, an estimated 5 million Americans--80,000  Washingtonians--will drop insurance altogether, creating more  uncompensated care.

And as I said in the beginning, passing the Affordable Care Act,  cutting the uninsured rate in half, was a huge milestone, beyond saving  $6 billion, but making the system healthier and less expensive. So why  do my colleagues on the other side of the aisle not understand that we  can't just cut, in the Big Beautiful Bill, these important healthcare  programs. We can't try to repeal the ACA 70 times and then, all of a  sudden, believe that you can just cut people off of the ACA program  without trying to provide a more cost-effective solution?

I know my colleagues Senator Crapo and Cassidy are trying. My guess  is they would like to get a solution here. I thought we should have  done it before we opened the government back up because we had the  optimal period of time where people were listening to real solutions.  Now, we have kind of divided into our corners.

I am very worried that we are not going to get this done when, in  reality, we could. We could. We are making things more expensive when  we don't need to. Without the extension, millions of Americans will  simply choose not to purchase the coverage, and the premiums will, on  average, double for the remaining people on the exchange. So that  meager $1,000 to $1,500 provided by my colleagues, Senators Cassidy and  Crapo, in health savings accounts is nowhere--nowhere--close to  covering the out-of-pocket deductible of a $7,000 typical associated  plan with the health savings accounts.

So I talked to them before, I wanted to work with them in earnest. I  thought it was some novelty in certain places like Indiana that was  worth exploring. But we cannot take millions of people off of the  Affordable Care plan and then say that you are going to give them  $1,000 when we know that their out-of-pocket expenses are going to be  $7,000.

So, as we have all suggested, fix this program, particularly for the  very small 5 percent or 6 percent that are at the very high income  level, figure out a plan that is more cost effective than what we are  providing today, and I am sure--I am sure--we can provide a solution  for the American people.

We know now that the cost of hospitalization by people like my  constituent in Spokane with chronic conditions like lung cancer or  other issues are really worrying the American people. We know that even  as we try to get a solution, that people are focusing on abortion  restrictions, as if those people in the Affordable Care Act part of the  exchange we are talking about are people that were part of this issue.  So literally, our colleagues on the other side,  who tried to say, let's cut the Affordable Care Act 70 times, put in  decimating language in the Big Beautiful Bill are also saying, The only  way I am going to solve this problem for you is if you change the law  and try to put more restrictive reproductive rights into statute.

So we can do better than this. We can focus on finding bipartisan  solutions. We can focus on working together as members of the Finance  Committee and actually get something done, but time is running out. I  know that we want to get something done, but this Finance Committee-- has the full committee met in open mark-up for 7 days of debating and  amending legislation, and that is what it takes to get our colleagues  in order.

I want us to understand what legislating really looks like. We know  that when we had the Covid pandemic, we all came together and created a  solution to help the economy keep going, to help the airline industry  keep going, to help small businesses. We could have done more. We  obviously had differences of opinion about how much to do, but we  worked in a bipartisan fashion.

So now, as we face this crisis where Americans are losing their  health insurance, people have retreated to partisan corners again on  things like choice and things like cutting people off of health  insurance, instead of working on solutions that really lower costs.

I ask my colleagues, let's work on solutions so that we will have  something for Americans. Otherwise, beginning January 1, which is not  that far from now, Americans are going to have less insurance, they are  going to have more costs, and many of them are going to be facing a  healthcare crisis without the aid and help of insurance to get them  through it.

I hope we can do better than that. I hope that we can learn from the  fact that expanding affordable health insurance to Americans is a  winning concept. It is worth achieving. I hope our colleagues will try  to achieve it in the next day.