Letter to Donald J. Trump, President of the U.S. - Foster, Wyden Lead Bicameral Warning Against Trump Administration Resuming Explosive Nuclear Testing


Dear Mr. President:We are deeply concerned by recent reports that you are considering a resumption of explosive nucleartesting, something the U.S. has not done since 1992. We urge you in the strongest terms to reject thisawful idea both because it is technically unnecessary and because it would represent a dangerousprovocation.The United States long ago replaced explosive nuclear testing with an annual assessment processthrough the U.S. Department of Energy's Stockpile Stewardship and Management Program(SSMP). These annual assessments rely on science and advanced simulation to rigorously examine eachweapon system and ensure they remain safe, secure, and effective. Successive Republican andDemocratic administrations have strengthened the SSMP, investing in science-based policy to resolvemany stockpile issues. Indeed, many experts have testified that the SSMP has helped us to know farmore about nuclear weapons than we ever did in the testing age.A return to nuclear testing is not only scientifically and technically unnecessary but also dangerouslyprovocative. It would signal to the world that the U.S. no longer has confidence in the safety, security,and effectiveness of our nuclear weapons. It would needlessly antagonize important allies, cause othercountries to develop or acquire nuclear weapons, and prompt adversaries to respond in kind--risking anew nuclear arms race and further undermining the global nonproliferation regime. None of thesedevelopments would improve America's national security or strengthen its position in the world.We strongly oppose any resumption of explosive nuclear testing, especially in light of the SSMP'sdemonstrated track record over the last 20 years. Taking this unnecessary and provocative step wouldbe an abdication of America's scientific leadership and would weaken our ability to make the world asafer place to live. We urge you to remain committed to the SSMP and science-based stockpilestewardship, and we look forward to your timely response.