Letter to Vice President Mike Pence, Robert Redfield, Dir. of the CDC, and Anthony Fauci, Dir. of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases - Cantwell Calls on White House to Establish Federal COVID-19 Guidelines for Aviation Industry


Dear Vice President Pence, Dr. Redfield, and Dr. Fauci:

I write to you in your capacities as members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force askingthat federal guidelines be established for the aviation sector and the traveling public. Last weekthe U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation held a hearing about theimportance of the aviation industry and what it will take to keep the traveling public safe fromthe coronavirus. At the hearing we heard from the airlines, airports, aerospace sector, as well asDr. Hilary Godwin, the Dean of Public Health at the University of Washington. To date, airlines,airports, and federal agencies have implemented inconsistent measures to thwart the spread ofthe novel coronavirus (COVID-19) through the aviation system.

To instill public confidence and mitigate a resurgence of the coronavirus from increased travel,we need clear, uniform, national guidelines for airlines and airports based on the best informationfrom our public health experts. If those guidelines are not followed, we need oversight from thefederal agencies to protect the traveling public and the workers throughout the aviation system. 

At the Senate Commerce Committee hearing about the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic onthe aviation industry, Dr. Hilary Godwin testified to the importance of having national guidelinesand that no one measure in and of itself will solve this problem, so we need to weave a net ofprotections to have the biggest impact. According to Dr. Godwin, this net could include thefollowing measures: Contact and travel information gathering to aid in contact tracing; Communicating to passengers, workers, and the public about good hygiene; Screening individuals for symptoms prior to travel; Minimizing contact between individuals at screening points and during flights; Wearing masks and gloves when appropriate; Frequently cleaning high touch surfaces; Requiring HEPA filters on airplanes; Making hand sanitizer readily available; Requiring passenger, and airport and airline worker attestation to being asymptomatic;and COVID-19 testing at airport entry points, once there is widespread availability ofinexpensive point-of-care tests.

While not all measures are appropriate for all circumstances, the more measures weaved to formthe net will decrease the risk to workers and the public. In addition, if those measures are notconsistent throughout the system they will be less effective. For example, most airlines haveannounced they will require passengers to wear masks and the Transportation SecurityAdministration (TSA) has announced it will require its employees at airport screening points towear masks. Some airports have started to require passengers to wear masks throughout airportsto ensure they do not increase risk of transmission, but that is not yet widespread. When a wellrespected scientist like Dr. Godwin says that we need uniform national standards to avoid apatchwork of regulations that will put holes in the net, the federal government should listen.

One key measure that is challenging but necessary to implement in the aviation system is contacttracing. The federal government, through the Public Health Service Act, has the responsibilityfor preventing the introduction, transmission, and spread of communicable diseases from foreigncountries into the United States and from one state or U.S. possession to another. However, thissystem is not set up to detect people that may have been exposed to a fast-moving illness likeCOVID-19. Accordingly, the federal government must move quickly to develop a protocol tocollect contact information for passengers to aid public health authorities' contact tracing efforts.

Finally, on March 10, 2020, after witnesses from the Department of Transportation, Customs andBorder Protection, and the CDC testified at a U.S. Senate Commerce Committee hearing, I wroteto you to clarify which federal agency is responsible for issuing guidance or mandates for aircraftcleaning requirements and for ensuring that the guidance is followed. I have not yet received aresponse to that letter. What remains clear is that airlines and airports need further guidance andclarity on where in the federal government to go to get that information. 

Again, the federal government must issue clear and uniform guidelines to our airlines and thetraveling public. These must include contact tracing, cleaning, social distancing, personalprotective equipment, and other measures, based on CDC and other scientific-based guidance toensure the safety of workers and passengers. The aviation industry is extremely important to afully functioning economy and the federal government should be able to balance the need for itto operate efficiently and protect workers and passengers.

Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this request.

Sincerely,