Nominations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698254/nominations


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in favor of the  nomination of Jared Isaacman to be the next NASA Administrator, but  first, I want to make a few comments about the unbelievable weather  events that are impacting the Pacific Northwest.

We have had, as many people have seen from national news, atmospheric  rivers and unbelievable rain impacting many of our rivers in the  western part of Washington--reaching record levels and above record  levels and impacting flooding throughout the region.

We, obviously, had another weather event last night, and the last  couple of days have had what some people described as 50 to 60 miles  per hour winds that ultimately, in some places in the State, were  recorded at 90 miles per hour winds. So, this morning, we are facing  350,000 people who are without power and a blizzard on the way.

And, while I think that some people think, well, it is a very  mountainous area and you should probably have severe winter weather,  not really in the history of our State. I think we have only had a few  lowland blizzards in the whole history of our State. So the fact that  now a blizzard is on the way, on top of the record flooding and the  flooding events still predicted to come back to record cresting of many  of our rivers, is making it a very challenging time for the State of  Washington.

So we certainly appreciate all the first responders, all the law  enforcement that are working in the community, all the work that the  Governor's office is doing, all the work that we are--a partnership we  are now getting from FEMA, the Army Corps of Engineers, and Homeland  Security to try to address this as a national emergency and clearly to  try to gather information about the direct economic impacts in hopes  that we will get support for these issues.

We have had a border crossing, that that was closed and certainly is  still closed to commercial traffic. We have one of our major highways,  Highway 2, that the Governor has now announced will be closed for  months, greatly impacting transportation and trade within our region.  We have other routes across the Cascades duly impacted.

So I can say that there are some positive stories out of this, that  coordination, that actually things that mitigated and adapted with a  levee system to prevent some of the record amount of rain from doing  even more damage have been successful. I am sure that we will all share  this with our colleagues in the future, but right now, we need  continued help and focus in the State of Washington, given these severe  weather impacts. And again, I appreciate those Federal Agencies who are  helping: FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers.                         Nomination of Jared Isaacman

Mr. President, I support the Isaacman nomination. In fact, I  supported him the first time he was nominated. He was not pushed  through the Senate, not the usual path for somebody to be nominated,  and then their nomination reversed, but then supported again by the  President. But I do believe Mr. Isaacman is capable of successfully  navigating the challenges facing the Agency.

I want to take a minute and thank Secretary Duffy for serving as an  excellent steward of NASA during his tenure where we had an acting  Administrator. I hope the experience is giving the Secretary an  increased appreciation for the expertise and research capabilities that  NASA brings to bear in developing technology to protect aviation safety  and the competitiveness of our aeronautics sector.

That is clearly an important missing aspect of the FAA--having the  best technology and the best understanding of how that technology  impacts aviation safety. So I support more partnerships here. I also  want to highlight a key decision that Secretary Duffy made that I  believe is important to our national leadership in human space  exploration.

In September, witnesses told the Commerce Committee that the SpaceX  lunar lander would not be ready to put Americans back on the Moon,  either in 2027 or 2028. This would almost certainly mean we would lose  the race to the Moon to China, which was unacceptable. In response,  Secretary Duffy directed NASA to reopen the competition for the Artemis  lunar landing mission to ensure that a lander can be ready by the end  of 2028, and I believe this was a correct decision, and I am pleased  that our nominee Mr. Isaacman agrees.

I would also like to note that Secretary Duffy came to NASA in a  particularly perilous time for the Agency, as evidenced in a  whistleblower report that my office released in September. Before  Secretary Duffy arrived, OMB Director Vought had been pushing NASA to  implement dangerous cuts in the President's proposed budget proposal  for fiscal year 2026, disregarding the law and the impacts on NASA's  mission and safety.

As my colleagues know, the President's budget request called for  cutting NASA's budget nearly a quarter, its workforce by nearly a  third, and its science funding by half. Simply put, this is not the way  we are going to win the race to the Moon or accomplish anything else  enduring, for that matter.

Fortunately, I believe Mr. Isaacman recognizes that some of the most  talented people in America work at NASA. I know the Presiding Officer  agrees with this, and that we need to be investing in NASA's mission,  not gutting them. During his nomination process, Mr. Isaacman  emphasized the importance of developing a pipeline of future  scientists, engineers, researchers, and astronauts to support the  science and technology development and align with NASA's objectives. I  strongly agree.

I look forward to working with Administrator Isaacman on the future  STEM talent with both NASA and more broadly with the aerospace and  innovation sector. Fair questions have been raised about Mr. Isaacman's  Project Athena strategic plan, which was drafted in May and leaked to  the press. I have asked Mr. Isaacman about this plan.

In response, he told me the plan was intended to be a proposed  approach to collecting data and information from NASA and the space  community, serving as a starting point in an in-depth conversation with  NASA's management employees on how to ensure NASA remains the world's  preeminent aerospace and technology organization.

Mr. Isaacman assured me that this plan was not part of a misguided  effort to sell off capacities or slash the workforce or have reckless  actions like DOGE had proposed earlier. He promised to share with us  the results of the study and analysis with Congress and to engage in a  dialog with the committee before doing any implementation. I take Mr.  Isaacman at his word,  and I do look forward to working with him on these particular promises.

So, Mr. President, I know you are a huge supporter of Mr. Isaacman  and have helped promote his renomination. We are here now with an  important mission between this institution and what our national  objectives are in going back to the Moon. I am optimistic that Mr.  Isaacman will bring a steady hand and clear vision to NASA.

I hope we can partner together, all of us, to achieve this incredible  thing for the American people. I know it is time for us to return to  the Moon, and there is much at stake with international competition.

I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting Mr. Isaacman on the  floor.                                   S. 1071

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, every year, Congress considers the  National Defense Authorization Act which has critical investments in  our national defense, including in Maryland. In my State, tens of  thousands of military personnel and civilians work at military  installations and in the defense sector, driving innovation and  research to advance our defense. The NDAA governs this work and  provides essential support to our servicemembers and veterans.

But at this moment, we are at an inflection point in the United  States. We are witnessing increasingly authoritarian actions by  President Trump and his administration. The President is using tools of  government to pressure and silence dissenting voices, terrorize  communities, lead our Nation into conflict without congressional  authority, and undermine institutions critical to our democracy.

As I noted during Senate consideration of the NDAA a few months ago,  the President has played politics with our Nation's military and tried  to use them to advance his authoritarian agenda, be it here at home or  abroad. He has deployed the National Guard to the District of Columbia,  Los Angeles, Memphis, and Chicago and has attempted to deploy the  National Guard to Portland. These deployments are a flagrant violation  of U.S. law, including the Posse Comitatus Act, as noted in recent  court decisions. Not only have these deployments created chaos in  American cities and communities, they have also pulled the military  away from its mission and expended funds meant to defend our Nation.  Senator Warren and I, along with several other colleagues, put out a  report that outlines how the Pentagon has diverted at least $2 billion  from its core missions to support the President's mass deportation  agenda.

The President's decision in DC and others cities to activate the  National Guard without the recipient State Governor's or mayor's  consent is why I offered an amendment to the Senate version of the NDAA  to block the President from deploying the National Guard to a State, or  the District of Columbia, if that State's Governor, or the DC Mayor,  objects. Unfortunately, the effort failed, and this bill does not  prevent the President's efforts to militarize American streets.

And abroad, Trump has resurrected a policy of a bygone era: the Trump  version of the Monroe Doctrine, carrying out an illegal airstrike  campaign against boats in international waters, which have been  flagrant violations of both U.S. and international law, and can only be  seen as extrajudicial killings amounting to state-sanctioned murder.  Trump has pursued these actions not to stop ``narco-terrorists,'' as  the administration claims, but as a pretext to start a regime change  war in Venezuela. There is simply no evidence that these vessels posed  an imminent threat, nor is there an active armed conflict between the  United States and Venezuela. The Constitution gives Congress the power  to declare war, making the President's acts flat out illegal. Trump's  warmongering with Venezuela, including the recent declaration of a  blockade on oil tankers from Venezuela is not about stopping drug  traffickers. The real goal is regime change and to grab Venezuelan oil  and gas reserves for the President's billionaire friends.

These escalating abuses demonstrate an administration increasingly  willing to sidestep the law using military force. They also underscore  my broader concern about unchecked increases in defense spending,  despite the Pentagon's repeated audit failures, including in November  2024. From FY 2021 to FY 2025, defense authorizations rose from $740  billion to $895 billion, a 21 percent increase, and this bill would  raise that to $900.6 billion, approximately $8 billion more than the  President's budget request. That excludes the July 2025 reconciliation  bill, which added over $150 billion in mandatory spending. We need to  more carefully examine how our defense spending increases year after  year, seemingly without fail, and demand the same accountability from  the Department of Defense as from every other Agency.

In addition to these concerns, embedded within this legislation is a  provision that walks back a key National Transportation Safety Board  recommendation implemented in the wake of the deadly air collision  between a commercial airplane and a U.S. Army helicopter near Ronald  Reagan Washington National Airport, DCA, specifically that military  aircraft in the area broadcast their location to other aircraft using  the most effective collision avoidance technology available. It also  allows the military to waive their own requirements for usage of any  collision avoidance technology in the DCA area. The inclusion of these  provisions is unconscionable when families are still grieving, and the  airspace congestion has not improved.

I also remain concerned by the Trump administration's actions to  weaken the merit-based civil service across the Federal Government,  including at the Department of Defense. One such action was a recently  issued executive order that misuses national security exemptions,  expanding them to cover two-thirds of the Federal workforce, including  many civilian employees at DOD who have long been protected by  collective bargaining. For decades, collective bargaining agreements at  DOD have enhanced transparency and allowed employees to perform their  work free from political interference. The Trump administration's move  to limit these protections undermines employee trust and could harm the  DOD's ability to maintain a skilled workforce. The bill before us  strips out a House-passed bipartisan amendment to restore collective  bargaining rights of DOD employees.

I appreciate that the NDAA process each year gives us the opportunity  to conduct oversight, update our defense policy, and assert  congressional prerogatives. This bill does include important  provisions, including an increase in pay for servicemembers,  investments in research, and reauthorization of the Ukraine Security  Assistance Initiative. It includes a provision I worked on to ensure  continued public access to Greenbury Point near the Naval Academy and  my efforts with Senator Kennedy to protect investors from foreign  insider trading. And there are provisions that will assist in future  oversight by requiring the Department of Defense to share more  information with Congress.

But these are not ordinary times. We must go farther to stand up to  an administration that is currently diverting the military to conduct  local law enforcement operations. That is conducting unlawful military  operations in service of regime change and threatening further actions,  including troops on the ground.

Our military is meant to protect and defend our homeland and our  citizens, not carry out actions against them. It must be governed by  the rule of law, not undermine it. I am opposing the NDAA because we  must do more to rein in these abuses.