Rotorcraft Operations Transparency and Oversight Reform Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698319/rotorcraft-operations-transparency-and-oversight-reform-act


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise to support the gentleman's future  request here and to say that the bipartisan ROTOR Act, the Rotorcraft  Operations Transparency and Oversight Reform bill represents a major  step forward for aviation safety.

Not even 1 year ago, 67 people lost their lives when a Black Hawk  helicopter collided with American Airlines Flight 5342 over the  Potomac, and it was one of the deadliest aviation disasters in history.  I do thank the families who are represented in the gallery today for  their steadfast support. This is an important step to honor the memory  of their loved ones.

I want to thank Senator Cruz for his bipartisanship in reaching this  agreement. He and I worked together on legislation we had originally  introduced called the Safe Operations of Shared Airspace Act and,  working with him, achieved a date certain for when these requirements  had to be met. We came together to craft that bill because safety is  not a partisan issue, and this bill reflects it. Most of all, I want to  thank the families for their steadfast pursuit of the right answers.  Even in unimaginable grief, they refused to let their loved ones be  forgotten.

When the NDAA language became public that rolled back postcrash  safety measures that the FAA, NTSB, and the military had agreed to, the  families spoke up. They stood at a press conference with Senator Cruz  and me. They made phone calls. They demanded better, and today, we are  closer to delivering on that and what they have asked for.

The ROTOR Act ends the exemption for planes to be in the airspace  without a broadcast signal--that includes the military, so no more  flying in the dark. And what is most important, it strikes the deadly  language that is in the NDAA bill that just passed here that had  widened that loophole. The Senate passed the NDAA with that provision  in it, but this bill repeals it, and we hope that our House colleagues  will take it up very expeditiously, and I thank the chairman for  working with the White House and the House to try to get that  commitment from them.

But just as we have said, we have no idea how this language got in  the bill in the first place. I won't be surprised if somebody tries to  stop us again. But we will be ready, along with the families, along  with our colleague Senator Moran, to fight for this.

This bill requires broadcast technology in aircraft operating in busy  airspace. It gives pilots situational awareness and real-time alerts.  And NTSB Chairwoman Homendy and her predecessors have been recommending  this for over 15 years. So we want to thank her for her leadership.

It also mandates comprehensive safety reviews for all airports across  the United States, military and civilian aircraft where they share the  same skies. So not just here, but places like San Diego, Tampa, and  Norfolk, and it requires the FAA to establish an office dedicated to  FAA-DOD coordination. That is really important. It requires a  memorandum of understanding with the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Coast  Guard to share safety data, and it directs the Army inspector general  to audit pilot training, maintenance protocols and the compliance.

This bill represents real progress. I want to thank the chairman,  Chairman Cruz, for working with all of us on the committee to get this  legislation where it is today, passing the U.S. Senate with a firm  commitment for aviation safety.

We will work with our House colleagues to continue to strengthen  this. We will work with our House colleagues in the future. But passing  this bill today may not be the final step, but it is a huge step  forward in getting this legislation to the President's desk.