Save America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700198/save-america-act


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise today because I think the  President tonight is going to continue to talk about his radical  changes to our electoral system. He has tried by Executive order, just  as he tried to impose tariffs by Executive order, and he found out that  he didn't have that authority, according to the Supreme Court. We know  now that article I, section 4 of the Constitution says that the States  administer elections, that Congress can regulate, but there is no role  for the President. I say this because I am very concerned about the  President's proposal, and I am very concerned about the SAVE Act.

Greg Kimsey, who is the Clark County auditor of a part of Washington  where I guarantee you, we have real election issues--basically, the  other day, in trying to fight against the SAVE America Act said this:  ``Voting is a constitutional right, a barrier to the exercise of  constitutional right should only be enacted if the government's  compelling interest is greater than the citizen's individual  constitutional right, the government's interest in ensuring that only  U.S. citizens vote would not be significantly enhanced by the SAVE  [America] Act.''

So here is a Republican auditor who is basically saying in my State  that this is a constitutional right by the citizenry of our State and  that the SAVE America Act is basically putting too much of a burden on  it.

Have States been failing in election administration? Is there a  public outcry from Republicans or Democrats who observe the elections  every year or the League of Women Voters that the Federal Government  should overturn our Constitution and give this power to the President?

State systems right now are working, and they are not finding  significant voter fraud. States have ways of finding out fraud. That is  how the system works--because it is based on your signature and saying  who you are. King County in my State, the largest county by population,  only had 12 instances of voter fraud in the 2024 election that were  referred to the prosecutor's office for investigation. Now, we are  talking out of millions of votes. None were related to a non-citizen  casting a vote, according to King County elections director Julie Wise.  Nationally, the conservative Heritage Foundation found 1,620 cases of  fraud between 1982 and the year 2025, so that is 1,000 cases of voter  fraud, basically over a 40-year period of time. In Texas, they only  found 113 cases in those 43 years and, in Georgia, 36 cases.

So again, by comparison, if you are looking at these numbers from a  national number, 154 million Americans voted in 2024. The Cato  Institute, another conservative group, found similar results in places  like Utah, Louisiana, Idaho, Michigan, and Montana. The League of Women  Voters is also citing their opposition to the SAVE America Act in  saying that only one ten-thousandth of 1 percent is the case of voter  fraud.

I wish I had a chart up here, is where I could put the zeros--.0001  percent, so one ten-thousandth of a percent of voter fraud. That is  what we found. But somehow, people are saying we should disenfranchise  millions of Americans--some have estimated as high as 9 percent of the  voting public--to somehow improve that one ten-thousandth of 1 percent.  Somehow, that is what we should do.

The League of Women Voters opposes the SAVE America Act because it  argues: ``By creating a `show your papers' requirement to not only  register but also to cast a ballot, lawmakers seek to suppress millions  of eligible Americans from voting.''

I also had a letter from the former Republican secretary of state in  my State, Sam Reed, who said: ``I oppose the SAVE [America] Act.  Neither the President nor Congress should be in the business of  micromanaging elections. As a longtime Republican election  administration official, I adamantly support our nation's  constitutional framers' decision that the election process be  decentralized to states.''

I issued a snapshot report last week detailing the impacts of the  SAVE America Act on the voters, and believe me, it is going to cost  them time and money. A replacement for a birth certificate--because  that is what you are going to need to show that you are a U.S.  citizen--costs anywhere from $23 to $50; a passport can be as much as  $165. Twenty-one million Americans don't have these documents readily  available. Seven percent of Texas voters don't. Ten percent of Georgia  voters don't, and you are basically now asking them to go and find  them.

And what about the women in our country that maybe have been  divorced, don't have the same name; they have paperwork that is messed  up? How is she going to get the right documentation in the right period  of time, since passing the SAVE America Act and putting it on the  President's desk means it is implemented immediately for this election?  Election officials are generally open normal working hours, which would  mean a voter would have to take time off from work or hire childcare  just to go down there and show these papers.

The SAVE America Act puts up barriers, and it gives the President the  authority to have Homeland Security reviewing the voter rolls. That is  right. They would take voting rolls and voting information and  basically start to approve it. Negligible voter fraud, but yet massive  disenfranchisement, that is what would be created.

So I am very concerned because our national voting system does depend  on you being a U.S. citizen. This is what the ballot actually says-- here is one of my old ballots that I took a picture of. It basically  says on the outside of your ballot, return as soon as possible by  election day. This ballot contains an envelope, and your signature will  be compared to your voter registration, and then it asks you to sign.

But since I wanted to make this a little clearer, I put this  attestation that is on the top of the ballot that everybody--so you are  directed when you see this ballot, you know that that is what you have  to do. You have to sign there. You have to read this attestation: I do  solemnly swear and affirm, under the penalty of perjury, that I am a  U.S. citizen. And it goes on to say that failure of this is a felony  punishable by a maximum imprisonment of 5 years in jail or a fine of  $10,000 or both. And then you sign your name.

Now, the notion that somebody thinks illegal immigrants are running  around the United States of America signing ballots saying they are a  U.S. citizen, when they can read right here that it says, I do solemnly  swear under perjury and these fines that I am a U.S. citizen, I don't  think so. These people aren't even going to the grocery store right  now. They are not even going to the doctor's office. They are scared to  pick their kids up from school.

And somehow, somebody is perpetrating this notion that they are  signing ballots and basically trying to sway the election when I just  said it is one ten-thousandth of 1 percent of voter fraud. And the  voter fraud that they are catching isn't even non-citizens; it is  probably people who actually have committed felonies or other types  of actions--because, guess what, when you go to vote and you sign this  ballot and you register, which also says you have to be a U.S. citizen,  and then you have people at the voting place--every signature is  checked. Every signature is checked.

In fact, in our State, the Washington State Patrol basically advises  the election officials how to compare the signatures. And while they  are comparing the signatures, there are Republicans and Democrats and  League of Women Voters and observers in every election official office  checking to see that that information is correct.

Now, you want to move all of that to the Homeland Security Department  and let them be in charge of this and let them say how many people they  think should be thrown off the rolls. I don't. This is a constitutional  right for our States. It is one that is working. There is negligible  fraud, and we shouldn't change it because you think you are going to  get one more zero on that one ten-thousandth of 1 percent and  disenfranchise millions of voters.

I do not want the Department of Homeland Security acquiring more  information on us. I do not want the general post office holding  ballots without postmarking them. I want our country to believe in free  and fair elections. It is how we move forward. The President of the  United States tonight should listen, as my guest tonight is the  secretary of state from Washington whose vote-by-mail system is  unparalleled in its ability to get the vote out and to be accurate,  even in the closest of elections.

And we do catch fraud, and we do match systems against voters and  information about them, so the system works. So please, please let us  not tonight forget that voting in our country is a constitutional right  upheld and pursued by our States. Let's keep that system. Let's turn  down the SAVE America Act. Let's move our country forward with more  participation in our elections, again by U.S. citizens in the system  that has delivered for us today.