Tiktok


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692683/tiktok


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise to express my concerns about  reports that President Trump is going to again extend the deadline for  getting TikTok out of the control of ByteDance and the Chinese  Government--concern because that means that, again, we are going to  allow this national security issue to fester and to continue on, maybe  for several more months.

What we know now, though, in the middle of a global conflict, during  which we know our enemies can weaponize TikTok to spread their  propaganda and turn the world against the United States, we need to  take action. While I know there are legitimate uses of TikTok, it is  also used by governments, in particular the Chinese, to spread lies and  indoctrinate people about what China, Iran, and Russia want Americans  to believe about our own country, about our own government. This is  alarming when an app is the top news source of Americans under the age  of 30. Let me give some examples of these practices.

In December 2023, Rutgers University found that TikTok's algorithm  disproportionately amplified anti-Israel and, by extension, anti- Semitic content compared with other social media platforms. This  amplification observed in the context of a major geopolitical events,  such as the portrayal of the Israel-Hamas conflict, and such hashtags  ``I stand with Israel'' or ``Pray for Israel'' were unrepresented. That  means they weren't represented at a ratio of six to one.

According to the Jewish Federation of North America, individuals on  TikTok for over 30 minutes a day were  17 percent more likely to be anti-Semitic. And last year, anti-Semitic  comments on TikTok rose 912 percent.

My fear is that a similar study would show that in between the issues  that we do think are legitimate businesses on TikTok, that there is a  bias and anti-American content being pushed about even the current  hostilities now in Iran. That is why I would like to submit for the  Record a report by Rutgers University entitled ``A Tik-Tok-ing  Timebomb: How TikTok's Global Platform Anomalies Align with the Chinese  Communist Party's Geostrategic Objectives,'' which can be found online  at https://networkcontagion.us/wp-content/uploads/A-Tik-Tok-ing- Timebomb__12.21.23.pdf.

On the flip side of another example is the current topics that China  doesn't like to talk about--they are sensitive to. You are never going  to see any information on TikTok about Tiananmen Square and what  happened.

And now, we are in a trade war. In a new report last month, Rutgers  University found that following President Trump's decision to put new  tariffs on China, TikTok drove content pushing Americans to buy  directly from Chinese manufacturers, as well as content denigrating  U.S. companies. The research pointed it out--and it resulted in tens of  millions of views on Chinese products, suggesting the platform  influenced the user and drove behavior that changed at a massive scale.  That is to say, now, TikTok is being used against us in a trade war.

I am also concerned that despite this clear and present danger, these  extensions just continue to give China an ability to unduly influence  American citizens. The President needs to implement the law that  Congress gave him, that the Supreme Court has upheld, and protect our  military and our citizens against this foreign misinformation that is  taking place. Last week, I asked Secretary Bessent from the Treasury  whether he had been discussing TikTok at meetings with Chinese  officials in London. He said they had not.

I am concerned that these extensions of the TikTok deal are illegal.  Note that Congress passed this law, and the President extending the  deadline to allow them to continue to operate in the United States  under the control of ByteDance and the Chinese Government is not what  Congress intended.

Congress said in the law that any deal on the sale of TikTok must  include a transfer of the ownership of TikTok's source code, training  data, and recommendation algorithms. This may be, for some people, not  really clear, but we would not let the Chinese Government own ABC or  NBC, and we shouldn't let them broadcast their content into the United  States on ABC or NBC, and we shouldn't allow them to do the same with  TikTok.

The Supreme Court, as I said, unanimously upheld this law that  Congress passed. I am concerned that each extension, though, of not  getting a deal, puts America and some of our leading tech companies at  great financial risk.

Under the law, app stores that distribute and support TikTok are  subject to severe penalties: up to $5,000 per user and that could  amount to billions of dollars in damages. And while the current  administration has signaled that they won't enforce the law, the  statute of limitations for that liability is 5 years, meaning future  administrations could apply those penalties retroactively.

So simply put, we cannot continue to allow foreign adversaries to  control technology that can fuel domestic and political polarization  and civil unrest. We need the President to follow the law that Congress  passed and bring TikTok under U.S. ownership.