Dhs Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern Act


Mr. EVANS of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong support of  H.R. 881, the DHS Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese  Entities of Concern Act, of which I am an original cosponsor. The  stakes for our national security, constitutional freedoms, and the  future of American innovation could not be higher.

My 12 years of service in the Army provided me with a deep  understanding of the criminal transnational activities of the Chinese  Communist Party. CCP intellectual property theft is not a distant  threat. It is actively happening, and it is targeting military  readiness and the very foundations of American competitiveness.

In my district, where energy production, manufacturing, and  agriculture are paramount, we know the looming threat of the Chinese  Communist Party on jobs and national security.

Mr. Speaker, as you have heard from my colleagues, the CCP has also  systematically expanded its influence throughout Confucius Institutes  and affiliate programs on U.S. colleges and campuses. These programs,  often cloaked in the promises of language and cultural exchange, have  served as vehicles for espionage, intellectual property theft, and  transnational repression.

We cannot allow these vulnerabilities to persist. Today, House  Republicans are taking action. Our Nation's most innovative  breakthroughs have been developed at U.S. universities, while  conducting vital research related to defense, energy sciences, and  other sensitive industries. Many colleges and universities have  accepted CCP funding, hoping to simply expand their foreign language  learning. They have, unfortunately, opened the doors for our biggest  foreign adversary to exploit breakthroughs for Chinese strategic  advantage.

This bill protects our institutions of higher education from the  dangers of the CCP by prohibiting American universities that receive  Department of Homeland Security funding from continuing relationships  with Chinese entities of concern.

Today, foreign language and cultural exchange programs thrive in my  State of Colorado, without the influx of CCP dollars, enhancing  students' global knowledge and growing our Nation's vital national  security workforce.

Congress needs to send a clear message to the CCP that we will not  allow foreign powers to erode national security, steal intellectual  property, or threaten our immigrant population.

This Congress, I have partnered with my colleagues on other  legislation in this area. My bill, the bipartisan Countering  Transnational Repression Act, continues this important work by stopping  Chinese Communist Party surveillance and intimidating Chinese nationals  on U.S. soil.

We have also introduced the Global Investment in American Jobs Act.  We must now come together to restrict the infiltration of the Chinese  Communist Party onto our college campuses by passing the DHS  Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern  Act.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to stand in defense of American  values and support this bill.