Global Investment in American Jobs Act of 2025


Mr. EVANS of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong support of  my bipartisan bill, the Global Investment in American Jobs Act.

Mr. Speaker, this is a critical piece of legislation that will help  bolster American competitiveness in the face of increasing economic  aggression from the Chinese Communist Party, all while helping to  create jobs in my home State of Colorado and all across the Nation.

First and foremost, I extend my gratitude to the gentlewoman from  Illinois (Ms. Kelly) for helping to introduce this bill with me. I am  proud to work with her in a bipartisan fashion to advance this bill  first through the Energy and Commerce Committee and now onto the House  floor.

In Colorado alone, there are more than 126,000 workers that are the  direct result of foreign direct investment. Of these workers, 31  percent work in manufacturing roles. These jobs, like other good, blue- collar jobs in my district, provide stable, good-paying careers to  constituents to help provide for their families. Oftentimes, these jobs  are obtainable to folks with a high school degree after a quick and  affordable career technical education course.

My bill tasks the Secretary of Commerce with conducting an  interagency review to help create a more favorable environment for  foreign direct investment, ultimately boosting our economy and  benefiting American workers.

International companies are beginning to recognize what most of us  have known for decades. The American worker is among the most talented  in the world. Whether it is energy, technology, or chemicals, Americans  produce some of the highest quality products in the cleanest, most  efficient, and socially responsible ways possible.

With the resurgence in America's manufacturing industry, global  investors are now clamoring to pump money into emerging industries in  the U.S. Congress needs to ensure that we as a Nation are striking the  right approach in courting international companies and facilitating  responsible investments.

This legislation doesn't just help create good-paying jobs. It also  helps to ensure that America remains competitive with the Chinese  Communist Party by retaining our technological advantage in research  and development.

International employers in the U.S. account for more than $80 billion  in research and development. With this bill, Congress can take a major  step in seeing this number increase over the coming years.

This isn't just something that we should consider doing. It is  necessary. In the face of increasingly unscrupulous tactics from the  Chinese Communist Party such as rampant intellectual property theft,  corporate espionage, the use of slave labor, and environmentally  reckless energy practices, it is imperative for the United States to  leverage every available tool to bolster American industry, such as  this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the Global  Investment in American Jobs Act to maintain Americans' competitive  edge, invest in our domestic talent, bring more jobs home, and drive  innovation to usher in the next era of manufacturing dominance in the  United States.