Recognizing the 2025 Class of the Ohio Agricultural Hall of Fame


Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, the Ohio Agricultural Council will mark the  induction of its 2025 Hall of Fame class at a special ceremony to be  held next Friday, August 1, during the Ohio State Fair. I am honored to  commend to the House this year's four inductees:

John Linder of Edison in my congressional district served as 2020- 2021 President of the National Corn Growers Association. His leadership  skills, integrity, and dedication to the promotion of agriculture led  to his 2023 election as president of MAIZALL--The International Maize  Alliance, which works to break down barriers to trade and innovation.  He and his brother are the fifth-generation operators of Linder Farms  in Morrow County, where he also co-owns a propane business. John is  also famous statewide and nationally as a champion tractor puller.

The late Bill Isler of Prospect in my congressional district was a  third-generation farmer and pork producer in Marion County. His  commitment to innovation in the field of herd health earned him  international recognition. As owner/operator of Isler Genetics, he was  among the first to implement specific pathogen-free herd standards. A  recipient of the Ohio Pork Industry Excellence Award from the Ohio Pork  Council. Bill joins his brothers, Dick Isler and the late Gene Isler,  as a Hall of Fame member.

The late Steven D. Maurer of Botkins in my congressional district was  a long-time public servant both locally and statewide. For much of the  1970s, he served as Mayor of Botkins, later representing the area in  the Ohio Senate for one term. He held top roles at the Ohio Department  of Natural Resources and led the Ohio Department of Agriculture for  several years in the late 1980s. For 16 years, he worked as State  Executive Director of the USDA's Farm Service Agency. Steve traveled  overseas extensively throughout his career to promote Ohio products and  expand our state's trade opportunities.

A native of Carroll County, John H. Davis has dedicated his life to  teaching others about the importance of agriculture. After several  years in the classroom in Ashtabula County, he was tapped to oversee  vocational agriculture education statewide. During his 20 years as  Director of Ohio FFA Camp Muskingum, he expanded the camp into a year- round education center reaching thousands of students. John is a former  Carroll County Commissioner and a member of the Carroll County Farm  Bureau Hall of Fame.

Selection for the Hall of Fame is a high honor that has been accorded  to only 257 Ohioans since 1966. Consideration for induction is given to  those who have made outstanding contributions to agriculture, Ohio's  top industry.

On behalf of the people of Ohio's Fourth Congressional District, I am  pleased to join in the accolades for these four remarkable inductees as  they are recognized for their commitment to agriculture and their  lifetime of service to others. I also thank the members of the Ohio  Agricultural Council for their ongoing work to honor Ohio's agriculture  leaders.