Recognizing Deputy Chief of Army Reserve, Major General Deborah ``deb'' Kotulich on Her Retirement From the U.S. Army Reserve


Ms. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  Deputy Chief of Army Reserve, Major General Deborah ``Deb'' Kotulich on  her retirement from the U.S. Army Reserve.

Major General Kotulich's 35-year career has been characterized by  exceptionally meritorious service while serving in positions of  increasing responsibility and culminating as the Deputy Chief of Army  Reserve. A native of New Jersey and West Point graduate, Major General  Kotulich's distinguished service has impacted the lives of countless  soldiers and their families.

And she has served in several key leadership roles throughout her  remarkable career. She served as the Director of the Army Recruiting  and Retention Task Force, where she successfully integrated and  synchronized efforts across the Army Enterprise to address the  recruiting crisis that impacted recruiting for several years. During  the pandemic, she diligently served as the Director for Supply,  Production, and Distribution for COVID-19 Vaccine and Therapeutics for  the Countermeasures Acceleration Group (CAG), formerly known as  Operation Warp Speed. There, she led a joint and interagency team that  worked ``hand-in-glove'' with industry partners to deliver millions of  life-saving doses and treatments to the American people and globally.

In addition to the CAG, Major General Kotulich has served in several  joint positions to include Chief of Staff at the United States  Transportation Command and three different assignments at the Defense  Logistics Agency.

Her command tours include: The 143rd Sustainment Command  (Expeditionary), Orlando, Florida; The 77th Sustainment Brigade, Joint  Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, New Jersey; The 655th Regional Support  Group, Westover Air Force Base, Massachusetts; The 359th Transportation  Battalion (Terminal), Fort Eustis, Virginia; and Headquarters Company,  55th Materiel Management Center (Theater Sustainment Command), Fort  Belvoir, Virginia.

While in command of the 143rd Sustainment Command (Expeditionary),  Major General Kotulich deployed her headquarters to Kuwait in support  of Operations Freedom's Sentinel, Inherent Resolve, and Spartan Shield.  During her tour, she was dual hatted as the Deputy Commanding General  of the 1st Theater Sustainment Command and Commanding General of the  143rd Sustainment Command (Expeditionary). And was responsible for more  than 10,000 Servicemembers, Civilians, and Contractors deployed  throughout the Central Command Theater of Operation.

Her other deployments were in 2007 to the CENTCOM Deployment  Distribution Operations Center (CDDOC) at Camp Arifjan and Kuwait in  support of Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. And in 2004  to Balad, Iraq for Operation Iraqi Freedom II, where she served as an  operational plans officer at the 13th Corps Support Command.

I want to thank Major General Kotulich for her distinguished service,  and her professionalism and passion for service in every role she has  filled throughout her prestigious career. Part of what makes the U.S.  military the greatest in the world is that servicemembers, like Major  General Kotulich, voluntarily dedicate their lives to serve and  sacrifice for this country.

I also want to thank her wife, Penelope Smith, and two daughters,  Rachel and Devan, for their unwavering support. I wish Major General  Kotulich and her family all the best in what I hope to be a restful and  enjoyable future.