Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Kansas. And at  the risk of getting him into political trouble, I am a huge fan of his,  but I want to address the question that he asked, which I think is a  legitimate one, which is: What is the hurry on the Affordable Care Act  premiums?

There is a really straightforward answer, which is that people are  getting letters tomorrow from their insurance carriers. Around 24  million people are going to get letters anytime from now until mid- November, and they are going to pay. Now, 24 million Americans are  going to be told that because of the last tax bill that was just  enacted by Trump and the Republicans, people are going to be paying an  average of 114 percent more per person per month.

It is not like we just went into a lab and cooked up an issue to try  to hijack some unrelated moving legislative vehicle. The reason for  this is that 24 million Americans are specifically on the ACA exchange,  and they are absolutely going to get hosed. And because we are all in  the same risk pool, it is not just people on the ACA exchange that are  going to see massive increases in their healthcare premiums; almost  every American is about to see a spike in their healthcare premiums,  just like they have seen electricity rates going up at double the rate  of inflation, just like they have seen the price of vegetables go up by  39 percent, just like they have seen shortages of lumber and labor.

We have an opportunity to do something because our Republican  colleagues--at least some of them--understand the magnitude of this  problem for their constituents. So the normal thing to do in a  functioning legislative body, where the President of the United States  does not believe that he is an elected Monarch, is to try to negotiate  some accommodation. After all, these are all of our constituents. It is  not like they are exclusively in urban areas or something. They are not  exclusively Democrats. In fact, there are slightly more Republicans  than Democrats on the ACA exchange.

So if this were a normal functioning time in American-style  democracy, the President of the United States would convene what they  call the four corners--majority and minority leaders of the Senate;  Speaker and minority leader of the House--and we would try to figure  out whether there was an accommodation to be made to save our  collective constituents from all this pain.

When Democrats had the trifecta--when Democrats had the House and the  Senate and the Presidency--we didn't have any shutdowns. It wasn't  because there is more good will on the Republican side toward  continuing resolutions than there is on the Democratic side toward  continuing resolutions. The reason is because Chuck Schumer and Nancy  Pelosi sat down with Mitch McConnell and Kevin McCarthy--or whomever it  was--and the President, and they figured out a deal. Even to raise the  debt ceiling, Kevin McCarthy said: Not for free.

So this idea that the minority party, only this minority party, only  in this time in the U.S. Senate history--we are to shut up and do  whatever we are told. What is worse is they are asking the majority  party to do the same thing.

This President believes that he is a Monarch. This President finds  the legislative branch to be a nuisance. And you know what? The  legislative branch is a nuisance. That is the architecture of the  Constitution of the United States. We are supposed to be in a struggle  with each other. We are supposed to argue and fight. And then we are  supposed to come to an accommodation.

But we can't come to an accommodation until there is a meeting. So we  are going to be here fighting for healthcare, and we are also going to  be here fighting to reopen the government. If the clock strikes  midnight and we are not able to avert this shutdown, then we are going  to be here, ready to deal.

We understand we are not going to get everything we want. We  understand we are in the minority. We understand we are out of power.  But understand this: We are not powerless. We still represent,  pessimistically, 47 percent of the--certainly, 47 percent of the Senate  seats. But something like half the country wants us to represent their  point of view. And the point of view that we are representing, by the  way, is shared by most of the constituents who are represented by  Republicans too.

And so there is still a pathway, but it has to be pursued. So the  onus is on the President of the United States and the majority leader  and the Speaker to find that pathway.