Make State Wildlife Action Plans Efficient Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1676 will improve the State-led conservation of  priority fish and wildlife resources by improving the efficiency of the  State Wildlife Action Plan review process.

State wildlife managers in every U.S. State are facing increasing  challenges. Nationwide, more than one-third of all plant and animal  species face heightened risks of extinction.

State Wildlife Action Plans are essential to proactively conserving  fish and wildlife, rather than waiting for populations to decline to a  point where they need Endangered Species Act protections. These plans  provide a comprehensive assessment of the status of States' wildlife  populations, key habitats, and strategies to keep the populations  strong.

Each year, these funds provide States with upwards of $54.4 million  to conserve species and critical habitats. These funds have enabled  numerous success stories, including research and conservation for the  rare Sierra Nevada red fox in California and the Cook Inlet beluga  whales in Alaska.

States must update and resubmit their action plans every 10 years to  qualify for annual State wildlife funds. This year, dozens of States  are going through their annual process. They are concerned than an  already thin Fish and Wildlife workforce will have a difficult time  processing these plans in a timely fashion.

This bill would redirect the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the  States to work together to speed up State Wildlife Action Plan review  processes, and it would codify the Fish and Wildlife Service's current  practice of automatic implementation, while a plan is in review, to  ensure that States don't lose access to these critical conservation  funds while the service reviews their plans.

At the same time, this bill would maintain the standards by which  these plans are reviewed, ensuring that these Federal dollars are used  responsibly and as Congress intended.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.

Ms. RANDALL. Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation, and I urge my  colleagues to do so, as well.