Republican Healthcare Crisis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697420/republican-healthcare-crisis


Ms. RANDALL. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today to raise the  alarm on the Republican healthcare crisis.

Speaker Johnson shut the government down for 43 days and kept the  House out of session, effectively running out the clock to find  solutions to address the healthcare affordability crisis created by my  Republican colleagues.

Now we have just 11 session days left before recessing for the  holidays, and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have offered  zero solutions.

At the end of the month, the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax  credits will officially expire, leaving 24 million Americans who  currently purchase healthcare on the exchange in an unimaginable  position. While   Mike Johnson may be sleeping soundly and enjoying the  holidays with his family, millions of Americans will be up at night  worrying about how they are going to pay for health insurance on top of  the affordability crisis the Trump administration created with reckless  policies.

My family knows what this feels like. My sister, Olivia, was born  with microcephaly, which means her brain was small and the doctors  didn't know why. Even with insurance provided by my dad's civilian job  at the Department of Defense, Olivia wouldn't have gotten the care that  she needed to live for 19 years as healthy as possible if it weren't  for the Washington State Legislature expanding Medicaid the year she  was born.

My family would have faced dire choices about which bills not to pay  in order to meet Olivia's needs if it weren't for Medicaid access.  Would we give up heating, groceries, school lunches?

Neighbors of mine in Washington's Sixth District are already sick to  their stomachs, looking at their monthly costs. For example, a couple  in Clallam County, ages 60 and 55, with a household income of $85,000,  for them the least expensive plan available would jump from $127 per  month to $1,485 per month. That is a 1,062 percent increase.

That same couple in Kitsap County, where I grew up, would go from  paying $56 to almost $1,500 a month under the least expensive plan.  That is an annual insurance bill of $24,000 without even having to go  to the doctor for a medical emergency or routine healthcare.

I recently heard from a neighbor in Port Townsend who said: ``My  husband is retiring in a few weeks.'' She retired years ago. ``So  although we currently have a good benefits package through his work, we  will be on our own for coverage soon. Only yesterday we learned of the  substantial increase through Healthplanfinder. We have now determined  that the best way to cover our upcoming healthcare costs will be for me  to take my Social Security early.''

She says: ``It is upsetting to me that my Social Security will not be  used for other living expenses or be as much per month as it would have  if I could hold off taking it a few more years.''

She is worried in her last line about not being able to use her  Social Security for other living expenses because she is going to have  to use all of it for healthcare coverage.

Under this administration, costs are up across the board. Groceries  are more expensive. Housing is more expensive. Childcare is more  expensive. Gas prices are soaring. Today, the average price for a  gallon of gas in Washington State is over $4, one of the highest in the  Nation.

Healthcare costs are only one aspect of why millions of Americans are  needlessly suffering under this administration. We don't have to keep  living like this. It is time for my colleagues to get serious about  solving the ACA tax credits, as serious as they were about extending  tax breaks for billionaires in July, and get back to delivering on  their promise to lower costs for Americans, which Trump promised to do  on day one of his administration.