Semiquincentennial Tourism and Access to Recreation Sites Act


Mr. Speaker, next year our Nation will celebrate its 250th birthday.  H.R. 4285, the STARS Act, would mark that milestone on September 17,  2026, by providing free entrance to National Park Service sites and  waiving standard amenity recreation fees to sites managed by the Bureau  of Land Management, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of  Reclamation, and the U.S. Forest Service.

I fully support helping more Americans experience our public lands  and will be honored to support this bill. However, it is hard to ignore  how hollow this gesture feels when it comes alongside the ongoing  Republican effort to undermine access to these very places.

While we may be hearing how treasured our public lands are from my  colleagues today, some of their actions paint a different picture.

Republicans are slashing the already underfunded land management  agencies' budgets. Republicans are firing hardworking Americans who  keep our public lands open and safe. Republicans are trying to sell off  our public lands for a quick buck.

Republicans are working to undo protections for national monuments,  trying to block updates to outdated resource management plans, and  pushing reckless development for extractive industries no matter the  public health or environmental consequences.

Republicans are attacking bedrock environmental and historic  preservation laws, attempting to erase and rewrite history in our  public lands, and working to turn our public lands into prisons and  detention centers.

Americans deserve better. They deserve public lands that are open,  well cared for, and honest about our history, not just a few symbolic  gestures and a free entrance day every now and then.

It is our responsibility to care for our public lands, to support the  people who care for them, and to ensure they reflect the full and  robust history of everyone who shaped this country. That is how we can  honor the past and ensure our public lands remain places that future  generations of Americans can learn from and enjoy.

Democrats will continue to stand up for our Federal workforce and to  fight to protect Americans' public lands.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this bill and reserve the balance of  my time.

Ms. RANDALL. Mr. Speaker, I am enthusiastically in support of this  policy, but I think I have to underscore, again, that our public lands  belong to all Americans, as the previous sponsor mentioned, regardless  of race, gender, socioeconomic status, or background.

The stories preserved at sites like Bainbridge Island Japanese  American Exclusion Memorial in my district serve as powerful reminders  of what happens when we allow fear and prejudice to override our values  of inclusion and justice. In this moment in our history as we celebrate  the semiquincentennial of our Nation, we are also watching history  attempt to repeat itself with the rounding up of Americans and the  rounding up of folks living in this country who are being persecuted in  our streets and on our public lands.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation and urge all my  colleagues to support it, as well. I also urge us to learn from our  history and to move forward more equitably.