World War II Women's Memorial Location Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697727/world-war-ii-womens-memorial-location-act


I rise in strong support of Representative Dingell's H.R. 2290, the  World War II Women's Memorial Location Act.

This legislation, as we have heard, would ensure that the service and  sacrifices of millions of American women are forever honored on The  National Mall and not erased, as we have seen efforts to do over the  course of this year.

During World War II, over 18 million women stepped forward to serve  on the home front, raising the number of women in the workforce to  nearly 40 percent between 1940 and 1945.

These women served in so many capacities: pilots, mechanics,  electricians, engineers, coders, and countless other roles. Many of  them served in my district at Naval Base Kitsap and the Puget Sound  Naval Shipyard.

Their contributions were the backbone of the war efforts, showing the  country what women could achieve. Their work reshaped the American  workforce and opened doors for future generations of women welders,  scientists, and servicemembers.

By authorizing the World War II women's memorial to be placed on or  near The National Mall, we are ensuring that the legacy of these brave  women will never be forgotten.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this bill, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. Speaker, as my colleague mentioned, I recently had a chance to go  to a 100th birthday celebration of one of my constituents, who was an  original Rosie, Ms. Jean Lillian Winther, whose story was part of the  fabric of our country's history at a time when women were rarely seen  in the shipbuilding trades.

Jean stepped forward with courage and determination, taking up the  torch, quite literally. She showed that women could excel as welders,  as builders, as defenders of our Nation's security, and, as I learned  at her birthday, as excellent dancers on the decks of an aircraft  carrier in between shifts.

Her work on the Essex-class carriers was vital to our Navy's success,  but her example reached even further. Jean blazed a trail for women who  came after her, proving that skills and determination know no  boundaries. Every woman who has picked up a welding torch or entered a  shipyard since has walked a little easier because of women like Jean.

Mr. Speaker, I am so honored to support this legislation to make sure  that we commemorate in a place of honor the women who helped shape our  country and helped shape the future of women in service and in the  trades for years to come.