-9999


Mr. BENNET. Last week, President Trump vetoed H.R. 131, the Finish  the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act, a bill that passed both Chambers of  Congress unanimously with broad bipartisan support. The President did  not veto this bill for any substantive objection. He did so out of a  desire to punish the State that he believes didn't support him  politically.

In my opinion, this is the last reason any President should make a  decision about anything. An election is one thing, but once we hold  office, we have a responsibility to represent every American,  regardless of their political party, regardless of their politics.

The President's veto will inflict real harm on people in my State by  denying 50,000 Coloradans living in tiny rural towns across the  Arkansas River Valley and southeastern Colorado access to clean,  affordable drinking water. Those farmers and ranchers have been forced  to rely on unsafe, carcinogenic water for generations, despite the  Federal Government's six-decade-old commitment to fix their water  infrastructure.

The Arkansas Valley Conduit is the final unfinished piece of a water  delivery project that Congress authorized in 1962, 2 years before I was  even born. The conduit would wind its way for 130 miles, from Pueblo,  CO, to the State line, traversing farming communities that had to rely  on bottled water or prohibitively expensive water treatment.

This area covers a quarter of the land mass of Colorado. It is  sprinkled with small towns and populated with small business owners and  farmers and ranchers who are dedicated to a rural way of life, who have  been fighting--generation after generation after generation--to try to  bring this clean water to their valley but are living in fear that they  or their children are delivering poisonous water.

There are probably not a lot of Senators here who aren't confident  that the water that is consumed by their children or their  grandchildren--the water that is consumed in their neighborhoods or  part of their State--isn't safe. That, I think, would be a reasonable  expectation in the richest country in the world.

Yet the inability of us to be able to finish this project--this joint  project--has made it impossible for the hard-working people in  southeastern Colorado to have the benefit--a benefit that other people  just take for granted because they live maybe closer to a city or in a  wealthier area than where the people in the Arkansas Valley live.

For 64 years, Coloradans have been relying on Washington to fulfill  its promise to build on their efforts--they have been a big part of  this in southeastern Colorado--to build on their efforts to deliver  clean drinking water. The effort to complete the conduit has always  been a partnership between the Federal and local government, driven by  the leadership of the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District.

In the face of rising costs and materials and labor, once again,  southeastern Coloradans, just as the generations before them have, came  together to put forward an inventive solution to lower costs by  changing the project's financing, with no increase at all to the  Federal obligation here.

The House passed the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act last July, and the  Senate passed it just 3 weeks ago, with the support of every single  Member of Congress--every Member of the House, every Member of the  Senate. There is almost nothing that ever gets through with that kind  of universal bipartisan support.

Republicans and Democrats, under the leadership of Representatives  Lauren Boebert and Jeff Hurd, my colleagues from Colorado, and Senator  Hickenlooper, my colleague here in the U.S. Senate, we all worked  together to ensure that rural Colorado would finally have access to  clean drinking water, something every American should reasonably  expect. And the folks in southeastern Colorado deserve it just as much  as anybody else does.

Instead, when it got to his desk, President Trump used his first  Presidential veto of his second term to deny Coloradans what should be  a fundamental right as an American.

Article I of the Constitution explicitly provides Congress with the  power to override a Presidential veto. Although overrides should only  be used when necessary, they are essential when both Chambers of  Congress have spoken clearly and spoken unanimously. There are very few  places in the Constitution where the Founders actually themselves wrote  about having a supermajority vote in the Chambers of Congress, and this  is one of those things, because while they believed that a veto  override should be rare, they believed that it was an essential part of  this branch of the Federal Government exercising its oversight when a  President does something like veto the Arkansas Valley Conduit, which  is wildly out of step with what the people that we represent want all  across this country.

If Congress allows this veto to stand, we set a troubling precedent.  It would mean that noncontroversial, bipartisan bills that pass without  objection can be rejected for reasons wholly unrelated to the substance  and be weaponized politically.

It is no secret--and I am sorry to come to this floor to have to say  this--that President Trump is, at the moment, engaged in a political  vendetta against the State of Colorado. I don't think any President  should be engaged in a vendetta against any State--obviously, least of  all, the State that I represent. But what I worry about more than  anything is that this is going to become a normal practice around here,  which it hasn't been until now, where Presidents reward the States that  support them and punish the States that haven't politically.

That is not how we should run this democracy. That is not how the  Founders of this country wrote the Constitution. They didn't even think  there would be political parties. They felt that it was very important  for Congress to be able to be the backstop at a moment when, for  whatever reason, a President made a decision that didn't serve the  American people properly or well.

If we can't overcome this veto, I think it would say that no bill is  safe and that the efforts of every single elected Member of Congress  would now be at risk to one person's view and one person's decision.

Later today, I am pleased to say the House is considering whether to  override the President's veto. They are putting it on the floor of the  House.

I congratulate the work of Congresswoman Boebert and Congressman Hurd  and the rest of the Colorado House delegation to work with the Speaker  to get this on the floor of the House. It is absolutely critical for  the people of Colorado that Congress act, that we support, once again,  the Arkansas Valley Conduit, which we have unanimously.

Next week, this bill will come over to the Senate floor. I urge every  single Member of the Senate to do what you did the last time, which is  to support with your vote the 50,000 farmers and ranchers in  southeastern Colorado who need the benefit of this clean water.

They are not asking, by the way, for a handout here. They have done  their part, generation, after generation, after generation, to keep  this project alive. They have done their part to get a unanimous vote  in the House of Representatives and on the floor of this Senate to be  able to keep their faith with their children and their grandchildren.  The least we can do in this Senate is to uphold the work that they have  done and also the Constitution of the United States of America.

I hope every person in this room will use this as an opportunity to  stand with the people in southeastern Colorado; to stand with our  Constitution; and to make sure that we all--all--take seriously the  legislative responsibility we have as an independent branch of  government.