H.R. 4


Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, as the Senate debates H.R. 4, I would like  to state for the record two motions I have to address some issues with  the Rescissions Act of 2025 that I believe the Senate must consider:

The following are motions to recommit in the jurisdiction       of the Committee on Appropriations:

Mr. Bennet moves to recommit the bill H.R. 4 to the       Committee on Appropriations with instructions to report the       same back to the Senate in 3 days, not counting any day on       which the Senate is not in session, with changes that--

(1) are within the jurisdiction of such committee; and

(2) would strike provisions that prevent Americans in rural       communities from having access to Wireless Emergency Alerts       or presidential emergency alerts.

Mr. Bennet moves to recommit the bill H.R. 4 to the       Committee on Appropriations with instructions to report the       same back to the Senate in 3 days, not counting any day on       which the Senate is not in session, with changes that--

(1) are within the jurisdiction of such committee; and

(2) would strike provisions that prevent American children       from having access to civics education or the opportunity to       learn about our democratic system of government.

This legislation would cut $1.1 billion in funding for the  Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which supports over 1,500 public  radio and television stations across the country, including over 50 in  Colorado. Colorado outlets stand to lose over $7.6 million in funding-- with a disproportionate effect for rural and Tribal communities across  the State. News organizations like Colorado Public Radio, Rocky  Mountains PBS, and smaller stations like KRZA in Alamosa and KVNF in  Paonia are at risk. Not only does CPB funding provide needed resources  for local outlets--the lifeblood of our democracy, responsible for  ensuring informed debate and holding power to account--but these funds  also support a wide array of free, easily accessible educational  programming and resources for our children. Moreover, rescinding these  funds would jeopardize key elements of our Nation's emergency alert  architecture, including the Wireless Emergency Alert System and the  Public Radio Satellite System. This proposal's principal outcome will  be the further erosion of our local media, the impoverishment of our  children's educational opportunities, and the dismantling of our  country's critical emergency infrastructure that saves countless lives  every year. I urge my colleagues to support these motions and reject  the legislation before us today.