Expressing Support for Local Law Enforcement Officers


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bipartisan  resolution honoring the brave men and women who serve in local law  enforcement.

These officers work tirelessly to protect and serve, putting their  lives on the line every day to uphold the rule of law.

As a former sheriff, a son of a police officer, and a 42-year career  police officer, I have walked in their shoes. I know the toll it takes  on them. I know the long hours, sleepless nights, and time spent away  from family. I know this stuff.

I know what it means to respond to a tragedy, to console a grieving  victim's family after a horrendous crime has happened to them involving  tragic accidents. I have seen things most Americans will thankfully  never have to experience.

When others run away from danger, law enforcement and first  responders run toward it. They fight crime, protect the innocent, and  too often, make the ultimate sacrifice.

During my time in Congress, Mississippi has lost too many heroes: In  June 2023, Madison Police Officer Randy Tyler was shot and killed while  responding to a hostage situation. In January 2024, George County  Sheriff's Deputy Jeremy Malone was shot and killed during a traffic  stop on a rural highway. In August 2024, Summit Police Patrolman Troy  Floyd was shot and killed during a regular, routine traffic checkpoint.  Earlier this year, Hinds County Sheriff's Deputy Martin Shields, Jr.,  was shot and killed after responding to a domestic violence dispute.

These officers represent the best of our State and our Nation. Fallen  heroes like these officers are being honored this week during National  Police Week as thousands of law enforcement officers come to the  Nation's Capital together here in Washington. That is why there is no  better time for us to pass this resolution and make it clear that we  stand for law enforcement.

My resolution expresses our gratitude to local law enforcement and  their families for their service and sacrifice. It calls for stronger  partnerships between officers and the communities they protect, and it  honors the memories of those who never came home.

We have seen targeted, ambush-style attacks on law enforcement  officers. We have seen departments struggle to recruit and retain  talented officers because they were vilified for deciding to serve  their communities.

Mr. Speaker, this is the time for Congress to take the lead. It is  time to make clear that we stand with the men and women of local law  enforcement who protect each and every one of our communities with  honor and courage.

I am proud that this resolution passed last Congress with  overwhelming support. This police week, I urge my colleagues to join me  in voting for this resolution to send a clear message that Congress  backs the thin blue line.

Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.