International Boundary and Water Commission Authority


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1948) to authorize the International Boundary and Water  Commission to accept funds for activities relating to wastewater  treatment and flood control works, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1948

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION                     AUTHORITY.

(a) Authorization.--The Commission is authorized to accept       funds from a Federal or non-Federal entity, including through       a grant or funding agreement, to study, design, construct,       operate, or maintain wastewater treatment works, water       conservation projects, or flood control works, and related       structures, consistent with the functions of the Commission.

(b) Deposit.--Any funds accepted by the Commission under       this section shall be deposited into the account in the       Treasury of the United States entitled ``International       Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico'' and       shall be available until expended to carry out the activities       described in subsection (a).

(c) Limitations.--

(1) Limit on reimbursement.--The Commission may not provide       credit towards the non-Federal share of the cost of a       project, or reimbursement, to non-Federal entities for funds       accepted under this section in an amount that exceeds a total       of $5,000,000 in any fiscal year.

(2) Source of funds.--The Commission may not accept funds       under this section from any non-Federal entity--

(A) that is domiciled in, headquartered in, or organized       under the laws of, or the principal place of business of       which is located in, a foreign country of concern; or

(B) that has in place any agreement with a foreign country       of concern.

(d) Report.--Not later than the last day of each fiscal       year, the Commission shall submit to the Committees on       Foreign Relations and Appropriations of the Senate and the       Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure and       Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on       the funds accepted under this section that includes a       description of--

(1) the activities carried out with such funds; and

(2) costs associated with such activities.

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the United       States Section of the International Boundary and Water       Commission, United States and Mexico.

(2) Foreign country of concern.--The term ``foreign country       of concern'' has the meaning given that term in section 10638       of the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation       Act (42 U.S.C. 19237).

Mr. EZELL.  1948, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1948 would allow the United States section of the  International Boundary and Water Commission, or IBWC, to receive  additional funding from other Federal and non-Federal partners to  support water and wastewater infrastructure.

The IBWC is already authorized to receive funds from the  Environmental Protection Agency, but this bill will allow the IBWC to  partner with other agencies and entities, such as the Department of  Homeland Security, to address the maintenance backlog for critical  water infrastructure.

This legislation will allow the IBWC to access more funding sources  so it can maintain these assets and, in turn, help provide cleaner  water for our warfighters to train in and strengthen our security  posture along our southern border.

Enacting the bill would help advance the Trump administration's  priorities as outlined in the President's fiscal year 2026 budget  request.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1948 is a strong, bipartisan bill that advances the  Trump administration's priorities that helps the IBWC effectively  manage critical water infrastructure along the southern border.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.