Maritime Supply Chain Security Act


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2390) to amend title 46, United States Code, to clarify that port  infrastructure development program funds may be used to replace Chinese  port crane hardware or software, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2390

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Maritime Supply Chain       Security Act''.            SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO CLARIFY THAT PORT INFRASTRUCTURE                     DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FUNDS MAY BE USED TO                     REPLACE CHINESE PORT CRANE HARDWARE OR                     SOFTWARE.

Section 54301(a)(3)(A)(ii)(III) of title 46, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) by striking ``including projects to improve port       resilience;'' and inserting ``including--''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(aa) projects to improve port resilience; and

``(bb) projects to upgrade or replace port cranes or parts       of port cranes (including hardware and software) that--

``(AA) were installed or provided by the People's Republic       of China or any department, ministry, center, agency, or       instrumentality of the Government of the People's Republic of       China; or

``(BB) are maintained, controlled, or sponsored by the       People's Republic of China or any department, ministry,       center, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of the       People's Republic of China;''.

Mr. EZELL.  2390.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2390, the Maritime Supply  Chain Security Act. This bill strengthens the ability of ports to  confront threats by Chinese software and hardware.

H.R. 2390 clarifies that funds from maritime port infrastructure  development programs can be used for projects focused on upgrading or  replacing port cranes that were either installed or supplied by the  People's Republic of China or any of its related government entities.

I want to thank Representative Rouzer, leader on the T&I Committee,  for his work on this legislation that ensures Federal funds can be used  to counter threats posed by our Nation's adversaries.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close and I yield myself the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2390. It is an important  next step in securing American ports and reducing the potential threat  from foreign equipment and software. We must continue to take action to  protect our transportation system from both physical and cyber threats.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.