Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Relating to ``Protection of Marine Archaeological Resources''


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in favor of S.J. Res. 11, a  Congressional Review Act to reverse the Bureau of Ocean Energy  Management, or BOEM, rule that targeted oil and gas production in our  Outer Continental Shelf.

The Biden administration spent the last 4 years steamrolling our  American energy sector with burdensome regulations. Instead of  unleashing our Nation's vast resources, the administration handcuffed  U.S. oil and gas production with red tape, driving up costs, stifling  innovation, and making us more dependent on foreign energy.

BOEM'S rule is not about safety or environmental stewardship. It is  not about protecting archeological resources. This rule is nothing  short of a universal mandate. It even applied to areas known to have no  archeological risk.

This is about forcing an extreme agenda that weakens our energy  independence and hurts hardworking Americans. The result: higher costs  at the pump, fewer jobs in the energy sector, and a direct hit to our  economy.

That is why I am proud to stand up today for the American workers and  consumers by leading the House version of this CRA to reverse this  detrimental rule. Under the Trump administration, we have the power to  push back against these reckless policies and restore commonsense  energy solutions to put America first.

In just the last 2 months, we have seen what happens when government  gets out of the way. Energy prices drop, jobs flourish, and we become a  net energy exporter.

Mr. Speaker, that is the kind of future we should be fighting for,  not where Washington bureaucrats make it harder for American businesses  to succeed.

Let's send a clear message: We stand for affordable energy, good- paying jobs, and an America that leads, not one that follows bad  policies straight into higher costs and economic decline.

I thank Senators Kennedy and Hyde-Smith for their leadership in the  Senate, and I thank Chairman Westerman for advocating to get this  resolution introduced on the floor.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support S.J. Res. 11, and I look  forward to the President signing this into law.