Tennessee Valley Authority Transparency Act of 2025


Mr. EZELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1373) to require certain meetings of the Tennessee Valley  Authority to be transparent and open to the public, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1373

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Tennessee Valley Authority       Transparency Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. TRANSPARENCY AND AVAILABILITY OF MEETINGS.

Section 2(g)(2) of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of       1933 is amended to read as follows:

``(2) Meetings.--

``(A) In general.--The Board shall meet at least 4 times       each year.

``(B) Transparency.--

``(i) Open meetings.--For purposes of applying the       requirements of section 552b of title 5, United States Code,       to the Board, the term `meeting' shall include all       deliberations of the members of the Board, a committee of the       Board, and a subcommittee of the Board, including any such       deliberations that are not scheduled for the purpose of       taking an action that will determine or result in the joint       conduct or disposition of official business of the       Corporation, notwithstanding subsection (a)(2) of such       section.

``(ii) Notice of meetings.--

``(I) Publication.--For purposes of section 552b of title       5, United States Code, public announcement of meetings shall       include publication on the website of the Board.

``(II) Emergency meetings.--Notwithstanding section       552b(e)(1) of title 5, United States Code, the requirement to       make public announcement at least one week prior to a meeting       shall not apply if the chairman of the Board designates the       meeting as an emergency special meeting.

``(iii) Publicly available information.--The Board shall       publish on the website of the Board any information required       to be disclosed or made available to the public, or publicly       certified, under section 552b of title 5, United States Code.

``(iv) Exemptions.--For purposes of applying section 552b       of title 5, United States Code, to any portion of a meeting       of the Board, and to any information pertaining to such       portion of a meeting, the Board may make a determination in       accordance with such section not to disclose to the public       under such section the following information:

``(I) Information containing or relating to power       availability requests.

``(II) Information containing or relating to contract       negotiations, including labor relations and procurement       actions, the disclosure of which would imperil or compromise       the competitive position of the Corporation.''.

Mr. EZELL.  1373, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressmen Burchett and Cohen for their  continued work in the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to  make the  Tennessee Valley Authority transparent for its customers. This bill is  the latest in those efforts.

Specifically, this bill puts into law practices that make more  meetings open to the public and ensures that minutes from those  meetings are publicly available after the fact.

The bill also contains limited exceptions for meetings involving  sensitive information in order to protect TVA's competitiveness and  ability to carry out its mission for its customers.

Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation, and I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1373, the TVA Transparency Act is a commonsense  bill that makes Tennessee Valley Authority more transparent while  ensuring it can serve its customers effectively.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.