Expanding Wksi Eligibility Act


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague Mr. Davidson for his  broad work in the capital market space and for leading us here on the  floor today.

I rise to urge my colleagues to support the Expanding WKSI  Eligibility Act. I thank my co-leads, Mr. Fields, as well as Chairman  Hill and Ranking Member Waters, for their support.

We have far too many regulations in the United States, and this bill  is about rightsizing our regulations in support of investments and  jobs.

This commonsense bill will help more well-run companies responsibly  raise money in the public markets. It rightsizes regulatory burdens and  frees up more resources for companies to invest in American jobs and  American innovation.

The well-known seasoned issuer--also known as WKSI--status was first  implemented around 20 years ago. It allows qualified public companies  in good standing to use automatic shelf registration. This reduces the  cost and complexity of a public offering and allows companies to be  more responsive to market conditions.

The WKSI construct has a track record of success in expanding access  to public markets while protecting investors.

According to Joel Trotter, one of the authors of the JOBS Act,  ``Decades of successful experience show that the well-known seasoned  issuer category is long overdue for expansion.''

I couldn't agree more, and this bill does exactly that. It lowers the  size threshold for WKSI qualification while maintaining all the  existing good governance requirements.

In other words, more small and midsized American public companies  will be able to benefit from the privileges that already exist for  larger businesses with similar compliance records.

The Expanding WKSI Eligibility Act also includes a helpful reporting  requirement for the Securities and Exchange Commission. This report  will provide Congress and the public with a better understanding of how  many previously ineligible companies are trying to regain their WKSI  status. Doing so will gain the insight needed to make future  legislative adjustments.

The Expanding WKSI Eligibility Act is a tailored, regulatory  improvement  that will support small and midsized businesses, job creators, and  investments.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support this legislation.