Procurement and Placement of Statue of Benjamin Franklin in the United States Capitol


Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 250) to direct the Joint Committee on the Library to procure  a statue of Benjamin Franklin for placement in the Capitol.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 250

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. PROCUREMENT AND PLACEMENT OF STATUE OF BENJAMIN                     FRANKLIN IN THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL.

(a) Obtaining of Statue.--Not later than December 31, 2025,       the Joint Committee on the Library shall enter into an       agreement to obtain a statue of Benjamin Franklin, under such       terms and conditions as the Joint Committee considers       appropriate consistent with applicable law.

(b) Placement.--Not later than December 31, 2026, the Joint       Committee shall place the statue obtained under subsection       (a) in a suitable permanent location in the United States       Capitol where the statue is accessible to the public during a       guided tour of the Capitol provided by the Capitol Visitor       Center.

Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, today I bring forward two bills. Our Nation faces  major challenges and concerns, and this body continues to work on  those. While we do that, these bills are simple and noncontroversial  and do require legislative action to take effect.

I rise today to urge my colleagues to support H.R. 250 to direct the  Joint Committee on the Library to procure a statue of Benjamin Franklin  for placement in the Capitol.

The nonpartisan legislation will allow Congress to place a statue of  Benjamin Franklin in the Capitol. The legislation will require that not  later than 2 years after enactment, the Joint Committee on the Library  shall enter into an agreement to obtain a statue of Benjamin Franklin.  It will also be required that the statue be placed in a publicly  accessible permanent location no later than December 31, 2026.

Madam Speaker, I thank Representatives Houlahan and Fitzpatrick and  their 72 additional cosponsors for bringing this legislation forward. I  urge my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R. 250, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) to speak on the bill.

Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared close.

Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I would like to say, once again, I thank my  colleagues, Representative Houlahan and Representative Fitzpatrick, and  my long working relationship with Ranking Member Morelle for being able  to bring this to the floor.

It is correctly noted that as we approach the 250th anniversary of  the United States of America, I think it is true and important that we  put this statue here in the United States Capitol.

Madam Speaker, I have no further speakers. I urge my colleagues to  support H.R. 250, and I yield back the balance of my time.