Thanking John McIntyre (Mac) Tolar for His Dedicated Service to Our Nation


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge and thank John  McIntyre (Mac) Tolar for dedicating over three decades of service to  our Nation's military, state, local, and federal governments, including  the past thirteen years as an employee within the United States House  of Representatives.

After graduating from the University of South Carolina, Mac enlisted  in the United States Marine Corps as an infantry officer in 1987. Mac  remained on active duty for eight years and continued his reserve duty  through 2012. During his distinguished military career Mac was also a  Reconnaissance Officer and deployed to the Middle East in support of  Operation Desert Shield, Desert Storm, and in support of the Global War  on Terror.

Mac was decorated with four awards for exceptional individual service  and received numerous awards from his unit. While on reserve duty, Mac  earned his law degree from the University of South Carolina in 2001 and  completed his military career as a Judge Advocate.

After earning his law degree, Mac embarked on a career in local  government. From November 2001 to February 2003, Mac served as an  Assistant Solicitor for the 15th Circuit in Conway, South Carolina,  where he was responsible for prosecuting misdemeanor offenses and  General Session transfer cases. Mac showed tremendous initiative in  this role by developing and implementing a successful DUI curriculum  for local law enforcement personnel. This training program was so  successful that it was later expanded to the South Carolina Criminal  Justice Academy and the Commission on Prosecution Coordination.

Mac continued his career in South Carolina serving as the in-house  Counsel for the Georgetown County government. In this role, Mac was  responsible for drafting, reviewing, and approving legal documents,  including deeds, contracts, leases, dedication instruments, financing  documents, resolutions and ordinances. These wide-ranging  responsibilities afforded Mac the opportunity to provide expert legal  representation to several county offices, boards, commissions, and  employees.

After a four-year tour in private practice, Mac joined the office of  United States Representative Martha Roby as her Military Legislative  Counsel. Mac's military and legal background perfectly positioned him  for his role in the office. His primary responsibilities included  serving as the Congresswoman's Veterans affairs, national security, and  foreign policy advisor. Mac was instrumental in creating and managing  Representative Roby's constituent Veterans' Advisory Committee, which  allowed the Congresswoman to gain additional insights, perspectives,  and ideas to drive her oversight and legislative agenda.

In July 2014, Mac landed his next role in Congress working for the  Select Committee on Benghazi. He was initially hired to serve as the  Select Committee's Senior Counsel and then moved into the important  role of Security Manager. As an employee of the Select Committee, Mac  analyzed thousands of pages of documents, communications, and other  executive branch materials relating to the terrorist attacks in  Benghazi.

Once his tenure with the Select Committee ended, Mac landed in the  Office of the Chief Administrative Officer in 2016 and immediately  began serving as the Director of the Wounded Warrior Program, now known  as the Green & Gold Congressional Aide Program.

Over the past nine years, Mac's leadership, stewardship, and  dedication have driven several significant enhancements to this  outstanding program. These efforts include modernizing several  components of the program, updating the requirements for participation,  broadening the scope to cover Gold Star Family Members and Active-Duty  Military Spouses, expanding allocations assigned to Member, Committee,  Leadership, and House Officer organizations, enhancing the orientation  program and professional development offerings for the Aides, and  launching the program's social media presence and dynamic website.

Mac's impact on the program is best seen in the lives and careers of  the many Aides who came through during his tenure as Director. From  December 2016 to August 2025, 339 Aides completed the two-year  assignment. Of those, 37 percent of them continued their careers in  Congress. Additionally, nearly 80 percent of the Aides built on their  experience by finding new roles in government, transitioning  successfully to the private sector, or enrolling in college to further  their education. These achievements are a true reflection of Mac's  leadership--underscoring not only the strength of the program, but also  the lasting opportunities it provided to so many.

I would also like to recognize and thank Mac's family for their  encouragement, love, and support, including his wife Helen Tolar--who  was also a decorated House and Senate senior staff member--and their  three children Walker, Mary Mac, and Oliver.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored to recognize Mac Tolar for his outstanding  contributions and overall impact on our Nation. Whether it was in the  military, local or state government, or as an employee of the House of  Representatives, Mac always made a difference in each job and an impact  in every role.