Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696718/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, and a grandmother.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding, Madam Chair once  and the future chair of the Committee on Appropriations. I thank her  for her leadership and her kind words.

I take heed, Mr. Speaker, of your comment to address my remarks to  you and not to your colleagues, so I can say to you and perhaps you can  tell them: Either they don't know what they are talking about, or they  don't care about meeting the needs of the American people.

Did any one of them vote to eliminate a need for preexisting  conditions in healthcare? Not one of them.

Did any one of them vote to say to children that, until they are 26  years old, they have access to your policy? Not one of them.

Did any of them vote to eliminate being a woman as being a  preexisting medical condition? Not one of them.

The list goes on and on.

Did any one of them vote for the Affordable Care Act, which, Mr.  Speaker, you can tell them was paid for? It was paid for. Later, when  we decided that we could extend the tax credits further so that more  people could have more access to care, did anyone vote for that? No.

Mr. Speaker, all they have done is try to eliminate access to  healthcare in our country. The public is catching on to them.

You might tell them: If a woman is born with a child who has a heart  condition, she is out of luck with what they are proposing.

If a father gets a stroke, forget about it.

If you have a sibling with a disability, they don't care.

If your wife has breast cancer, you have big bills to pay because  they want to take away healthcare, whether it is Medicaid to tens of  millions of people, half a trillion dollars for Medicare for seniors  and people with disabilities, and millions of dollars added to the cost  for families to access the Affordable Care Act.

The list goes on and on. Either they don't know, or they don't care.

I will say one more thing. As a grandmother and mother, how about the  President of the United States having a Halloween party on Halloween  night and saying to the Supreme Court: Please don't make me feed the  children or the poor people in our country.

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, going to the Supreme Court for that means  that ``cruelty'' has not even come close to the word that is needed for  that kind of behavior. This is the worst President for children that  America has ever seen.