Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700503/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for  his kind words but, more importantly, for his leadership in bringing us  together today and for his great statement and that of our  distinguished leader, Mr. Jeffries, that we heard earlier.

Mr. Speaker, I stand here as former leader, but also as one with 30  years of experience in intelligence. I think this is a very important  debate for us to have. There are two debates going on here. One is the  debate as to the Constitution of the United States. The other is  whether Iran should have a nuclear weapon, which everyone agrees they  should not, but that doesn't mean the Constitution of the United States  should be a casualty of that because the administration wants to take a  shortcut to the war.

I rise in mourning for the brave servicemembers who have given their  lives in this conflict. I honor their ultimate sacrifice and pray for  them, their families, and all who were injured in this so far.

I had some veterans in my office, Mr. Speaker, earlier today on two  different occasions, and they talked about the fact that having six  people killed so early at the beginning of a conflict, an initiation of  hostilities is unacceptable. What is our plan? What do we have in mind  for them?

Again, everyone agrees Iran should not have a nuclear weapon. To that  end, that is why I am so proud about what President Obama did with  this. He was masterful in diplomacy and in forging an agreement that  verifiably prevented Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.

I have this book of statements from our colleagues who told the  President: We need to see the substance of the agreement. We need to  see the validation and proof of it all. We need the communication to  the American people.

The President respected the Congress and came and gave reasons, and  this was for an agreement. This President won't even come and give us  the data for an action of war.

Let's be clear. This is not a debate about the merits of the war.  That is another debate. It is a debate of the Constitution of the  United States.

The beauty of the Constitution, central to it, is the separation of  powers.

Ms. PELOSI. The separation of powers, Article I, and in that Article  I is very importantly the power of the Congress to declare war.

Again, let us be serious about our oath of office to protect and  defend the Constitution as we protect and defend the people of our  country. That is our responsibility. That is what we will do.

I urge my colleagues to vote in support of the Constitution and then  go on to the debate of whether we should go into Iran or how we go into  Iran. I think there will be some mixed views on that, but that is a  different subject.

I urge my colleagues to honor your oath of office, honor the vision  of our Founders, and honor the sacrifice of our men and women in  uniform who have gotten us here today.