Federal Reserve Independence


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694017/federal-reserve-independence


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of one of the  bedrock principles of our economy: the independence of the Federal  Reserve Board.

For more than a century, the Federal Reserve has served as a  cornerstone of the economic system of our country, tasked with  safeguarding price stability, maximizing employment, and preserving the  health of our economy, independent from political pressure, insulated  from partisanship, and rooted in data and discipline.

When I first came to Congress, Mr. Speaker, I was a member of what  was then called the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, now  the Financial Services Committee. At that committee, as it is today  under the new name, we heard from the Chair of the Fed on the specific  amount of time required by Congress on two subjects. According to the  Humphrey-Hawkins law, they would report to us on inflation and  employment/unemployment, and that was part of the purview in their  communication with Congress that was required on a regular basis.

I heard one of the Chairs of the Fed say unemployment is dangerously  low. It scared me to death. How could it be? He was reporting as to its  impact on inflation. That was when I was a new Member.

When I was Speaker, our Members said frequently: Why don't we have  the Fed be more accountable to us?

I said: It has to be independent. They have their own funding. They  don't have to depend on us for that because their independence is  essential.

Any of us who had economics in college or beyond knows that  independence of the Fed is essential to the respect that our country  commands in terms of our own economy throughout the world. The Chairman  of the Fed is the Chair of the central bank and serves as the Chair of  the central banks globally. It can't be a party hack. It can't be  somebody who is there because the President wants to create interest  rates. That is not what the President's job is, to create interest  rates. It is the Federal Reserve Board that does that. It is really  important.

I come to you on this day to say this because of the rumors that we  hear of the flirtation with making the Fed just a handmaiden of the  Presidency. It would be wrong to do. It would be wrong to do, and we  would be viewed disrespectfully if we were ever to go down that path.

Now, this comes at a time when we are observing the 15th anniversary  of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. As  some of us here know who served with Barney Frank, he was the chair of  the then Financial Services Committee and a master of his agenda there.  Senator Dodd from Connecticut was on the Senate side with that.

It was necessary, Mr. Speaker, because of what was happening in the  financial community. I mean, it was awful. It was horrible. We all know  that in September of 2008, we were told that our financial system was  melting down. It was doing so because of--well, I have written about it  in my book, and I won't go through the whole thing right now--what was  happening terribly in the financial system by the banks and financial  institutions.

What happened? Millions of people lost money, trillions of dollars  from the wealth of the country. Millions of people losing their jobs,  so many losing their homes, losing their savings, and the rest.  Therefore, this bill was necessary.

Of course, after the bill was passed and to this day, still the banks  and other financial institutions try to undermine it and weaken it. The  Volcker Rule, named for a former Chair of the Fed, was a provision in  Dodd-Frank relating to the security of our economic system.

These notions that they are putting forth of making the Fed Chair a  party hack is just so very wrong. I will just say this, again: In  school you probably learned of fiscal policy, and that is what the  Congress of the United States does. We create the budget of the United  States. Fiscal policy is here, and monetary policy is at the Fed,  establishing the rates in terms of relating to inflation.

Let's rid ourselves, disabuse ourselves of notions. Instead, we need  serious ideas about how to make our economy work for the American  people.