Gop Tax Scam Hurts Everyone


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691417/gop-tax-scam-hurts-everyone


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to receive time from the  distinguished Congresswoman from Washington State (Ms. Schrier). She is  a pediatrician. We have all learned a lot about how public policy has a  direct impact on the health and well-being of the American people.

When I hear them talk about cutting over $700 billion in Medicaid and  that it is just waste, fraud, and abuse, this beautiful child is not  waste, fraud, and abuse. I will talk about a little child in my remarks  who is not waste, fraud, and abuse.

This Special Order comes together to shine a bright light on the  Republican plan to fund tax breaks for billionaires by making huge cuts  to Medicaid.

That is what it looks like. The fact is they will still with their  tax bill add nearly $4 trillion to the national debt to cover their tax  break for the wealthiest people in our country.

This is fiscal engineering to reduce the role of government in the  lives of the American people where it is most needed. This is Robin  Hood in reverse, taking resources from where it is most needed, from  people who need it most, and giving it to those who need it less, the  billionaires in America.

This is shameful. It is a fraud, and it is a shame.

When President Johnson signed Medicare and Medicaid into law, he  traveled to Independence, Missouri, to be in the presence of former  President Truman who had worked on this when he was President, but it  came to fruition under President Johnson. President Johnson went there,  and he signed the bill in the presence of Harry Truman. He reminded the  American people of a shared tradition:

``Never to be indifferent toward despair. . . . never to turn away  from helplessness. . . . never to ignore or spurn those who suffer  untended in a land that is bursting with abundance.''

Indeed, Medicaid saves lives and is a pillar of health, security, and  justice for tens of millions of Americans.

People often think of Medicaid as healthcare for poor children, and  that would be justification enough, healthcare for poor children.  However, it also is a middle-income benefit for nursing home residents  and people needing it for long-term care services. They get that  largely through Medicaid. It is also a benefit for people with  disabilities.

The Republicans' devastating budget plan would push about 14 million  Medicaid recipients off lifesaving healthcare and leave countless  vulnerable families exposed to catastrophic medical bills. This is  terrible. This is about health and financial health that is being  devastated.

Working families and children from low-income households would face  ruinous consequences as would rural hospitals--as the distinguished  Congresswoman has mentioned--families seeking opioid addiction  treatment for their loved ones, and middle-class Americans with long- term care needs.

Ms. PELOSI. This is what they have said about this.

California Medical Association issued the following statement  regarding House Republicans' proposed cuts in Medicaid:

``The latest Federal proposal to gut Medicaid is reckless. Physicians  and hospitals will be pushed to the brink, forced to close their doors  and unable to continue care for their patients.''

Mr. Speaker, that is because when this funding leaves those rural  hospitals, then not only do the Medicaid patients lose, but all the  patients in that rural area lose.

``These would be the largest Medicaid cuts in history and will leave  veterans, seniors, the disabled, children and working families without  healthcare coverage''--this is as the distinguished physician colleague  has said--``making emergency rooms the only point of care for millions  of people. Communities will be devastated; lives will be lost.

``Congress must reject these cuts and instead focus on strengthening  the safety net that protects us all. Otherwise, at least 13.7 million  people will lose healthcare coverage.''

Republican attacks on healthcare impact real people, including little  children. My guest at the President's State of the Union Address to  Congress was Elena Hung, mother of Xiomara, a courageous Little  Lobbyist, who is 11 years old.

Xiomara has complex medical needs, including chronic lung disease,  chronic kidney disease, and global development delays. She has a  tracheostomy, is ventilator and oxygen dependent, and uses a feeding  tube.

Access to quality, affordable healthcare ensured that Xiomara  received the care she needed during an extended hospitalization and can  now live at home with her family.

Medicaid has helped Xiomara receive the therapies she needs to catch  up with her developmental milestones, including physical therapy,  occupational therapy, feeding therapy, and speech therapy.

However, these very lifelines, including Medicaid and more, are what  Republicans are working to destroy to fund tax cuts for billionaires.

Democrats are standing strong against the administration's many  attacks against families' healthcare. This is just one of them.

With this Special Order hour, we are calling out Republicans to  either vote to protect their constituents' healthcare, or to vote to  take it away. That is the choice.

In stark contrast to the President and Republicans in Congress,  Democrats will always fight to lower healthcare costs. We are unified  and ready to use every tool to stop this GOP scheme. We will always  work to strengthen pillars of health and financial security in America.  That includes the Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. We will  always fight for Medicaid.

I just want to go back to that one thing. They are still adding  nearly $4 trillion to the national budget to give tax breaks to their  wealthy billionaire friends. When the Republicans passed that bill and  the President signed it into law, 83 percent of the benefits went to  the top 1 percent, adding $2 trillion to the national debt. They are  doubling down on that, adding almost $4 trillion to the national debt  and saying: We have got to give all this money to billionaires and call  children waste, fraud, and abuse in our Medicaid system.

It is really sinful, it is really sad, and it is something that I  hope the Republicans will reject.

I hope their constituents will call them, because these Medicaid  people are in Republican districts. One of our colleagues in California  has, out of all of our constituents, he has nearly 500,000 people on  Medicaid. Yes, he voted with Republicans on this.

Mr. Speaker, you can be sure he will be hearing from his constituents  because people know.

I will close by saying that Lincoln said:

``Public sentiment is everything. With it, you can accomplish almost  anything. Without it, practically nothing.''

However, for public sentiment to prevail, people have to know, and we  are making sure that our constituents know and they are being informed  as to our knowledge of what Republicans are doing. It is Republican  reverse Robin Hood.

Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for the opportunity to share the story of  this beautiful little girl.

Ms. PELOSI. Will the gentlewoman yield?

Ms. PELOSI. Just briefly, I want to make this further point. Ms.  Schrier has been so eloquent, and all of us associate ourselves with  her remarks and the professional knowledge that she brings, the  intellectual resource she is on all of this.

I just want to add one thing. At the same time as the Republican  reverse Robin Hood plan is going, taking it from those who need it  most, giving it to those who have the most, they are also taking nearly  $300 billion from SNAP.

SNAP is for food. Food is medicine. You are going to make people even  more sick if those children don't have food.

There was one time when Medicaid first began that one of the people  who was starting community health centers around the country insisted-- insisted--with the Federal Government that food be counted as medicine  because it is about health. Children who do not have access to food are  the ones who suffer the most.

I see that our colleagues have arrived.

Let me just add one thing. People ask me: What is your why? Why did  you ever decide to leave home and come to Congress? I have five  children. The idea that one in five children in America lives in  poverty and goes to sleep hungry at night in the greatest country that  ever existed in the history of the world, I just couldn't handle that.  That is what took me from kitchen to Congress and housewife to House  Speaker, to feed the children.

When Matthew says: ``When I was hungry, you fed me,'' in the Gospel  of Matthew, what do we do with that? Just tear it up. This is immoral.  It is sinful for us to be taking food out of the mouths of babies to  give tax cuts to rich people.

Yet, do you know what? It isn't about that. Republicans are giving  those tax cuts anyway. The majority is fiscally engineering the  shrinking of the compact that we have with the American people and that  developed countries have with their constituents.

We are behind the rest of them in many of these regards when we have  to take food out of the mouths of babies to say that we are going to  give a tax cut to the wealthiest, but we just really are taking food  out of the mouths of babies because we don't want to feed them. That is  what this is about, $1 trillion: $700 billion or more for Medicaid and  $300 billion for SNAP. It is reverse Robin Hood a la Republicans.