Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the National Park Service Relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy- Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low NoX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690390/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-national-park-service-relating-to-glen-canyon-national-recreation-area-motor-vehicles-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-united-states-fish-and-wildlife-service-relating-to-endangered-and-threatened-wildlife-and-plants-endangered-species-status-for-the-san-francisco-bay-delta-distinct-population-segment-of-the-longfin-smelt-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-advanced-clean-cars-ii-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-and-nonroad-engine-pollution-control-standards-the-omnibus-low-noinfxinf-regulation-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding and for  her extraordinary leadership in making the case.

Mr. Speaker, yes, we are talking about something being expensive.  Don't say clean air for our children to breathe is too expensive for us  after all the things that the President has done to make things more  expensive in our country.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to all of the Republican  resolutions on the floor today, one of which takes away the right of  California or any State to protect residents from dangerous pollution.

The illegal attack on the vital clean air protection set by  California would choke our communities with smog. We are used to that.  Over time, Californians have seen and felt the impact of smog on our  lives. The gentleman even referenced it in his comments, and we will  relentlessly defend our State's right to protect the air our children  breathe with robust fuel economy and pollution standards when Federal  standards fall short.

With these resolutions, Republicans are exposing their cynical,  special-interest agenda that endangers public health in every community  in our country by dismantling our protections for clean air, clean air  for our children to breathe.

They put the American peoples' health, economic security, and futures  under direct dire threat as Republicans and their donor-driven cronies  funnel billions into the pockets of guess who? Big polluters. Today,  they want us to favor big polluters over clean air for our children to  breathe.

Democrats will never stop fighting to defend lifesaving protections  for America's clean air. For the children, Mr. Speaker, I urge a strong  ``no'' on this resolution.