Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''; and Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688094/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-consumer-gas-fired-instantaneous-water-heaters-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-waste-emissions-charge-for-petroleum-and-natural-gas-systems-procedures-for-facilitating-compliance-including-netting-and-exemptions-and-providing-for-consideration-of-h-con-res-concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for  his exuberant presentation of opposition to this budget. I thank him  for all the amendments he proposed to improve upon it. Sadly, the  Republicans didn't accept just one.

Here we go again. The last time the Republicans had a majority in the  House and Senate and President Trump in the White House, they passed a  terrible bill that was a tax cut for the rich that gave 83 percent of  the benefits to the wealthiest people, the top 1 percent in our  country, and added $2 trillion to the national debt.

This year, they are doubling down on that, $4 trillion to the  national debt, and they call that fiscal sanity. They are doing it by  steering taxpayer dollars from Medicaid to give additional tax breaks  to billionaires and big corporations.

People think of Medicaid sometimes as a poor children's program, and  that would be sufficient justification for it all, but it is a middle- income benefit. Seniors who need long-term healthcare need Medicaid.

Members should listen to their constituents and hear what they have  to say about what it means to their fiscal well-being. Listen to  constituents. The numbers are staggering.

By voting for this cruel bill, they are betraying hardworking  Americans by raising costs for all those already struggling to make  ends meet. The President said he was going to reduce the cost of  living. He didn't. He said he would reduce inflation. He didn't.

Mr. Speaker, indeed a vote for this budget is a vote against  Medicaid, ripping away healthcare from children, people with  disabilities, and seniors. It is a vote against SNAP, as the  distinguished chairman indicated, taking food out of the mouths of  babies.

They do that with glee while President Trump and congressional  Republicans are choosing to protect billionaires, by the way, who  benefit from Medicaid with people cleaning their homes.

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, we are led and unified by Hakeem Jeffries.  We are united in our commitment to work for working families. That is  why I urge a ``no'' vote on this extreme measure, and I thank the  distinguished chairman for his leadership.