Recognizing the Honorable Steny Hoyer


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698705/recognizing-the-honorable-steny-hoyer


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, today is a day of joy but also a day of some  sadness that our great leader, Steny Hoyer, has announced his  retirement from Congress.

He still has another year. He still has another year, and I know a  lot will come.

I join the gentleman in saluting Elaine, Stefany, Susan, Anne, and  Judy. Judy--we loved Judy when she was here, and now we rejoice in the  gentleman's happiness with Elaine.

My colleagues, we all know that Steny Hoyer has been a pillar of  strength in the House of Representatives and a champion for the people  of Maryland for more than four decades. His patriotism, mastery of the  legislative process, and steadfast commitment to America's working  families have left an indelible, positive mark on our Nation.

Steny has been a steady presence in our Caucus and the Democratic  leadership and a valued colleague. He has been a great leader in  bipartisanship in this body. He spoke in his remarks of how it was when  he came here. Many of us were here at that time. We didn't get along  because we always agreed; we got along because we respected the  differences that we brought in representing our districts. It was a  very positive time, which he harkened us back to and challenged us to  return to.

I thank Steny.

Mr. Speaker, his deep knowledge of the institution, respect for its  traditions, and commitment to public service have earned him the  admiration of colleagues on both sides of the aisle.

Personally, Steny has not only been a trusted partner in leadership  but a dear friend. He mentioned the Presidency of John F. Kennedy. When  President Kennedy was President, Steny and I worked in the office of  Danny Brewster of Maryland. That is when I got to know him. I was just  out of school. He was in law school. Sadly, we saw the assassination of  the President, and that was a horrible thing.

As he concludes his extraordinary leadership and service in the  Congress, we celebrate his legacy of decency and devotion to our  country. He has been just so remarkable. Our gratitude to him and his  family is boundless, and we wish them every happiness in the years  ahead.

Steny has been a leader to us and a mentor to many. He has really  been an example of leadership and can be viewed as one of the most  substantial, respected Members of Congress in the history of this body.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Hoyer for his leadership.