Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701849/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-iran


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I  thank him for his courageous leadership in bringing this legislation to  the floor.

We are the House of Representatives. Article I of the Constitution  gives the power to declare war to the Congress of the United States.  Why? Because we are the Representatives of the people of the United  States, and it is important for the people of the United States to  understand the reason why, the purpose, the strategy of it all, and  also to approve of the use of force.

Of course, the President did not do that. For some reason, there are  those in this body who are willing to abdicate the power of the House  of Representatives and the Congress of the United States to declare  war.

The greatest cost, of course, of this war is not just that the  American people have not had the explanation, by way of the Congress  having that explanation. The gravest cost is human. Thirteen brave  American servicemembers have lost their lives, and hundreds more have  been injured. More than a thousand civilians in the region have  perished.

We all agree, of course, the cost is in the billions. The President  said we can't do childcare because we have to spend money on war. We  don't have to spend money on war.

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, we all agree that they cannot have a nuclear  weapon. President Obama did that diplomatically. The current President  threw that out and decided to go to war without a plan, without a  strategy, without an exit plan, and, really, without even explaining  his purpose to the American people.

I urge our colleagues to respect who they are, Members of Congress  with the power to declare war, and insist on voting on this motion put  forth by the distinguished, soon-to-be-chairman-again of the Foreign  Affairs Committee, Mr. Meeks.