Rob and Michele Reiner Tribute


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698360/rob-and-michele-reiner-tribute


Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, it is hard to think of anyone more  remarkable and excellent in every field and endeavor than those pursued  by Rob and Michele Reiner.

Rob was creative, funny, and beloved. Michele, successful in her own  right, was an indispensable partner, intellectual resource, and loving  wife.

Personally, Rob and Michele were, first and foremost, very loving  parents. Rob cared deeply about people and demonstrated it in the  community beyond family by supporting the First 5 Initiative.

First 5 Initiative took money from the tobacco tax and applied it to  the first 5 years of a child's birth. Children born in California,  including my own grandchild, have a packet that they take home and  teaches them how to care for an infant child.

Rob also fought against the discriminatory Proposition 8.

Civically, he was a champion for the First Amendment and the creative  rights of artists. Professionally, he was an iconic figure in film and  made us laugh, cry, and think--and think--with the movies he created.

Paul and I and our entire family mourn the loss of our dear friends  and pray for their loved ones.

His children, Jake and Romy, put out a statement thanking everyone  for their good wishes but asking for privacy. We respect that.

Mr. Speaker, I will provide a fuller statement for the record of the  great life achievements and beautiful, beautiful love of community of  Rob and Michele Reiner.

I just want to say three things.

Do you recognize this? It is the things that have been said in his  movies:

``I'll have what she's having.''

``You can't handle the truth.''

``As you wish.''

``Go to 11.''

Do you know what that is?

Mr. Speaker, I rise to sadly pay tribute to Rob and Michele Reiner

Rob and Michele Reiner embodied creativity, generosity and moral  courage in every chapter of their lives. The deadly assault on them in  their home earlier this week was devastating and heartbreaking beyond  words.

Rob was truly one of a kind--a gifted storyteller whose humor,  humanity and brilliance enriched our culture and brought people  together. From his memorable roles on television to his extraordinary  achievements as a director, filmmaker and actor--whether When Harry Met  Sally . . . , The Princess Bride, A Few Good Men, Stand By Me, This is  Spinal Tap or `Meathead' in All in the Family, and so many others-- Rob's work gave us stories that made us laugh, cry and think, and  reflected our shared humanity in profound ways. Who can ever forget:  `You can't handle the truth,' `I'll have what she's having,' `As you  wish,' or `Up to eleven.'

Michele was Rob's indispensable partner and a success in her own  right--a formidable intellect, trusted counselor, and loving wife whose  insight and strength shaped their work and their impact on the world.

Personally, Rob and Michele, first and foremost were devoted parents.  They cared deeply about people and they demonstrated that every day in  their community. They championed Proposition 10 for tobacco tax  revenues to fund early childhood development through the  transformational First 5 initiative which has benefited millions of  California children. And they stood up for equality and dignity by  fighting against the discriminatory  Proposition 8. Indeed, they lent their voices and resources to  countless causes rooted in fairness and opportunity for all.

Civically, Rob and Michele were fierce champions of the First  Amendment and the creative rights of artists, never wavering in their  belief that freedom of expression is essential to a vibrant and just  society. They understood that democracy depends on compassion,  engagement and the courage to speak out.

Professionally, Rob was an iconic figure in film and television whose  work will endure for generations. And Michele's own leadership--behind  the camera and in support of artistic expression--were integral to the  couple's success. Their partnership was a testament to the power of  collaboration and the beauty of shared purpose--and their legacy lives  on in the countless lives they touched through art and advocacy.

Paul and I, and our entire family, mourn the loss of our very dear  friends Rob and Michele with profound sorrow. (And moved by the loving  statement by Jake and Romy, we hold their loved ones close in our  hearts and are praying for them, and all who are grieving during this  unimaginable time of pain. May Rob and Michele's memory be a blessing,  and may their lives continue to inspire kindness, courage and hope.)