Als Awareness Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691604/als-awareness-month


Mr. FEENSTRA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize ALS Awareness  Month, to honor those who have lost their lives to this awful disease  and to share my support for our fellow Americans living with ALS.

Last year, I had the opportunity to meet with Lori Hermstad from  Spencer, Iowa, who tragically lost both of her daughters to ALS.

At just 17 and 26 years old, Alex and Jaci Hermstad had their lives  cut short by this horrible disease.

They sadly became the youngest twin girls in history to lose their  lives to FUS-ALS, an even rarer form of this disease.

Lori's resilience in the face of unthinkable loss is inspiring, and  she shared with me the positive memories that she had of her brave  daughters.

Jaci and Alex embraced life with remarkable strength, fearless  hearts, and endless courage. They loved their families, friends, and  faith, and they shared a passion for the outdoors and horses.

Jaci and Alex's bravery in the face of overwhelming odds are helping  to advance science in the ALS community today. Alex's brain tissue was  donated to advance ALS research, and Jaci personally urged lawmakers  and the FDA to fast-track a new personalized drug designed specifically  for her rare and aggressive form of ALS.

These sisters showed us what it means to be courageous, to live with  purpose, and to never stop fighting for others.

In the darkest moments, they were beacons of light.

In honor of Alex and Jaci, and every American living with or who has  lost their life to ALS, we must recommit our efforts to find new cures  and therapies for ALS.

We will never forget Alex and Jaci, and we will continue to fight to  find a cure for this tragic disease.                     congratulating dr. wendy wintersteen

Mr. FEENSTRA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate my friend,  Dr. Wendy Wintersteen, on announcing her retirement as president of  Iowa State University.

Under her leadership, President Wintersteen prioritized students, led  the State in research, and advanced Iowa State's incredible reputation.  I have always enjoyed working with her to advance Iowa State's  priorities at the Federal level.

We also worked closely on protecting CIRAS to grow manufacturing in  Iowa and to bring jobs to our rural communities. She played a pivotal  role in supporting our veterinary diagnostic lab and the world-renowned  Ames Laboratory. She will continue to be remembered as a phenomenal  leader for our Iowa State University.

Mr. Speaker, I wish President Wintersteen and her husband, Robert,  all the best in this next chapter of life.                Congratulating High School Seniors Across Iowa

Mr. FEENSTRA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate high school  seniors across Iowa who are graduating. This is an incredible milestone  in their life that they will always remember. It marks the conclusion  of 4 years of hard work, perseverance, and personal growth.

Whether they are off to a trade school, community college, a 4-year  university, or heading straight into the workforce, their contributions  to our communities are crucial, and their voices are needed

They are the next generation of leaders, entrepreneurs, and  innovators who will make our State and country a better place.

I especially want to congratulate my daughter, Savannah, who  graduated yesterday and will be attending Iowa State University this  fall.

Savannah's mom and I are so proud of her accomplishments, and I can't  wait to see her future.

I congratulate the class of 2025. Now go chase your dreams.