Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. MENG. Mr. Chairman, I thank Ranking Member DeLauro for yielding.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the 2026 Financial Services and  General Government and National Security, Department of State, and  Related Programs Appropriations Act.

I thank Chairman Mario Diaz-Balart and Ranking Member Lois Frankel  and their team for their hard work on this bill.

America is at a fork in the road in our international affairs. Over  the past year, our soft power has been decimated. Millions of people in  need have been recklessly cut off from vital assistance. Billions of  dollars in lifesaving health and food supplies purchased by American  taxpayers have been stranded in supply chains, or worse, destroyed.  Thousands of public servants, including many of my own constituents,  who dedicated their lives to protecting our country and projecting our  soft power, were fired.

This bill isn't the one Democrats would have written if we were in  the majority, but I want to share why I support it. First, it continues  U.S. support for women around the world. Women are one-half of the  world's population, but too many still face obstacles to economic  opportunity, gender equality, and their fundamental freedoms.

This funding has been a core pillar of U.S. assistance since the  1950s, and it is lifesaving. Estimates suggest that each year, it  prevents 17.1 million unintended pregnancies and saves the lives of  34,000 women and girls who otherwise would have died from complications  of pregnancy and childbirth.

The UNFPA is a critical piece of that puzzle too. This bill ensures  continued funding for international organizations, including UNFPA.

History has taught us that we cannot bury our head in the sand and  abandon the international community without consequences for our own  national security, and we certainly can't afford to leave women and  girls behind. With this bill, this Congress is doing our part to make  sure we don't.

Second, this bill protects U.S. leadership and taxpayer investments  in global health, including scientific, medical, and agricultural  research in my home State of New York.

It funds PEPFAR, which fights HIV/AIDS, well above the President's  anemic request. Since 2003, this program has saved over 26 million  lives. It also includes funding for programs that support the health of  moms and children and fights other infectious diseases that know no  borders, like tuberculosis.

Third, it takes steps to further protect American taxpayers from  waste, fraud, and abuse perpetrated by this administration.

It maintains important directives on education, conservation, water,  sanitation, and hygiene programs. It reins in the Trump administration  and reasserts congressional oversight on the uses of funds by  increasing transparency requirements. It includes provisions I  championed to make sure lifesaving commodities and supplies purchased  with U.S. taxpayer dollars can't simply be destroyed.

Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, while this bill won't right every wrong, it  represents Democrats and Republicans reaching an agreement that asserts  Congress' authority, pushes back against this administration's  overreach, and stands up for proven policies that have made our country  and world safer, stronger, and more prosperous.