Authorizing Representation By the Senate Legal Counsel in the Case of Desmond Bellard V. Ronald Wyden, U.S. Senator


Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, what you see depends on where you sit.  Last Friday, it was announced that the BRIC Program, or the Building  Resilient Infrastructure and Communities Program, run by FEMA would  end, and money which had been allocated would be pulled back from the  States which were receiving it.

Now, most families across the country have not heard of the BRIC  Program, but if you were to explain what it does, they would say,  oftentimes, that they need it. I can tell you folks in Louisiana do.

Louisiana has benefited the most per capita in the BRIC's latest  round of funding, and I would argue that this actually saves tax  dollars for the rest of the country because the BRIC Program helps  prevent against flooding, flooding that may occur after a big rain  event or after a hurricane. And in Louisiana and in many parts of our  country, this is an inevitable part of life.

But the best way to recover from a flood is to never flood at all.  The old saying:

An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.

Another:

A stitch in time saves nine.

The same principle applies to flood resilience and mitigation  infrastructure. When we invest in levies and floodwalls, communities  are protected when the storm hits, and the Federal Government saves  billions in a recovery effort that never has to be done.

If you go down to South Louisiana, for example, you will see homes  elevated by the BRIC Program that were not previously elevated. Now  that they are elevated, that family is secure should the floodwaters  come.

Now, you can say: Wait a second. That is just Louisiana. There is a  parish in Louisiana in which the flood control structures prevented  10,000 homes from being flooded in the last hurricane--talk about an  ounce of prevention because those programs, those families, they would  have received Federal help. Turns out no Federal help was needed  because we were able to build resilience. We were able to keep those  homes from flooding in the first place. This is the type of work that  we need to do. And if we do it, then never is a National Flood  Insurance Program claim filed.

The family saves; the taxpayer saves. Investing now saves money down  the line.

That is why back in 2018, during President Trump's first term,  Congress established the BRIC Program to invest in those flood  protections needed to prevent future flooding. And through the  Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, another billion dollars was  added to that program. This is because the BRIC Program is an effective  tool, the type of tool that my communities in my State and communities  elsewhere in the country depend upon.

Now, apparently, though, the BRIC Program is in danger. And it is  being endangered, I gather, because of the effort to eliminate  government waste. Now, there is a lot of government waste, and I am all  for eliminating that waste. If there is fraud, we should eliminate it.  If there is waste, we should eliminate it.

But preventing homes from flooding, that if they do flood will cost  the Federal taxpayer billions of dollars, that is not waste; that is  good planning. That is what we should all be doing in every aspect of  our life: planning ahead, planning proactively. The waste is that, if  we don't do this program and the inevitable flood occurs, then we have  to go in and rescue communities. That is waste because we could have  prevented that from happening in the first place by implementing  programs such as the BRIC Program.

I would ask FEMA to reconsider the impact of cuts to the BRIC Program  and to reconsider canceling the BRIC applications that are already  placed.

They should. This is a congressionally authorized piece of  legislation--authorized and congressionally appropriated. Congress has  said that this program will exist. We passed BRIC into law. We provided  funds for it. To do anything other than to use that money to protect  families from flooding, to protect the Federal taxpayer from having to  put out billions to rescue communities which have flooded, is to thwart  the will of Congress. And that is why Congress passed it in the first  Trump term, and that is why President Trump supported it. It improves  efficiency, not decreases it.

I can tell you, people in South Louisiana--whether it is Terrebonne,  Lafourche, Ascension Parishes, and places you wouldn't expect to flood  like Livingston Parish--that overwhelmingly--that supported President  Trump 95 percent of the time, they would overwhelmingly support this  sort of flood mitigation.

Here are some examples of the money that is already going out:  Roughly, $40 million to the city of Central; $36 million to Ascension  Parish. In Central, they were trying to reduce flooding after the great  floods of 2016 in Louisiana, trying to keep that from happening again.

The $36 million to Ascension Parish is to fortify electrical  infrastructure. Hurricane comes along; electricity goes out. Of course,  no electricity, the whole community is incapacitated.

Twenty million dollars to Lafourche Parish to strengthen 16 miles of  power lines; $10 million to the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana to provide  evacuation routes during flooding. Evacuation routes during flooding,  that is something that we should make sure we are building so that you  don't have to helicopter people out or you don't have to get them out  by boat.

So these are examples of BRIC Programs that are a stitch in time that  will save nine.

Now, of course, it is important to my State. I will point out that  Louisiana was the third largest recipient of BRIC Program funding  recently and the largest on a per capita base. And without BRIC  funding, none of these projects would happen--whether it is East Baton  Rouge Parish, Ascension Parish, Lafourche, or the Coushatta Tribe.

Lafourche Parish President Archie Chaisson had a $25 million  application for grid-hardening so that the people of Lafourche would be  able to get back on their feet quicker after a hurricane. I can tell  you, I went down to Lafourche Parish after the last hurricane, and all  the power poles had just toppled over. It is almost as if you were  playing dominoes. They weren't touching, but they all toppled just like  that. And there were crews from around the country that had been-- electrical crews that had been mobilized to come and reinstall those.

If you hardened the grid, that doesn't happen. If you harden the  grid, those tens of millions, hundreds of millions of dollars spent to  get those electricity poles back up does not have to be spent. This  money is an investment in a more resilient future that doesn't require  the investment of private and public capital to restart communities.  This is not waste.

In fact, if you went to Archie Chaisson's parish, I can tell you,  those folks would tell you they are against government waste. They  would also tell you that this is not waste. This is something which  will save their homes, save lives, and save communities.

Now, we can ask ourselves if FEMA were to move forward with the plan  to cut BRIC, what would be the alternative? Flooding costs up to almost  $500 billion in damage every year throughout the United States, not  just Louisiana. Again, $500 billion in damage that we have to pay after  the fact versus investing a few million now to prevent.

Now, the darker the color, the more the recent flooding. So you can  say, although I have been speaking about Louisiana, you can see that,  across our Nation, floods have been destroying homes and neighborhoods;  downing power lines; harming businesses; in some cases, taking lives.

Just since the start of 2025, at least eight Americans in these four  States in dark red have died as a result of storms hitting their  communities. In the last 3 months, 37 States have experienced flooding.

These are the States that are in red. It goes all the way from Maine  to Minnesota, to Michigan, to Montana--you don't think of Montana being  a flood State--Idaho. All of these States in red have had flooding in  the last 3 months.

And you see, it is not just the coastline in which there is a coastal  surge like Louisiana or Florida. It is also what is called riverine.  ``Riverine'' meaning you have a valley, a river down the middle, the  river rises, and people on the lower part of that valley--I think that  would be the situation in Kentucky--are going to flood.

These are all places that could benefit from a resiliency program,  from a BRIC Program. We know it works. We know it saves money.

And just to bring this home to my State, this is Livingston Parish,  LA, just after the great flood of 2016. Look at that. These are homes  in areas that had never flooded before. And in some incredible, once- in-500-years flood event, they were all flooded. Livingston Parish,  2016--we call it the Great Flood. It affected not just this parish but  all those in what we call the capital region--Tangipahoa Parish, going  up to Monroe, LA--it was almost a statewide event.

Now, if we built resiliency, this doesn't happen. If you look at  this, can you image the Federal response?

They were so honored then-Presidential candidate Donald Trump came  down and spent time in Livingston Parish after this flood to call  attention to it because he felt as if President Obama was not paying  attention. President Trump came with Vice President nominee Pence,  spent time there, brought hope to the people, and that is when, in  2018--I am sure part of his motivation was to sign into law what has  ultimately become the BRIC Program.

These people testify with their flooding how lives are changed when  you don't have resiliency.

I just want to say one more thing because I would talk to these  people. I am privileged to represent them. Each of these homes has a  story. There was a wedding dress that a mother had, saving for her  daughter, that was ruined in a flood. There were wedding pictures from  a grandparent, parents, and daughters--multigeneration--and an album to  save for generations totally lost in a flood. There were, in this  flood, neighbors who went out and died, not recognizing the place they  were stepping wasn't the side of a road but rather a ditch, and they  went down, got swept away in this flood. I can go through each house  and imagine a story that could have been prevented if there had been  resiliency built into this community before this flood.

The purpose of the BRIC grants is to build that resiliency so that we  don't have stories to tell which are tragic or sad but rather stories  where people continue on with their life as if--well, as if the flood  never occurred.

Local leaders advocating implementing using these dollars are  advocating for the people they represent. So am I. Right now,  representing those people calls for me to ask that any effort to stop  BRIC grant funding is halted, that the will of Congress, that the law  that Congress passed, that the funding Congress put into the program,  that be honored--by law, it should be honored--and that the money which  is out there stays there and the applications which have been placed be  accepted, processed, and fulfilled.

If rules need to be changed because the Biden administration did  things which are silly to have done, then change those rules. But to  end a program--to end a program--which has the ability to prevent this  sort of disaster, not just in my State but across the Nation, we should  not end that program. To do so is to inflict harm both upon the rule of  law and upon these communities.

Let's keep BRIC in place.