Cassidy to Vote for Acquitting President Trump


U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA) today announced his intention to vote against both articles of impeachment, thereby acquitting President Trump.

Cassidy argued that the House failed to make its case beyond a reasonable doubt and that the American people should decide who they want to be their president. He explained his reasoning in a speech delivered on the floor of the United States Senate earlier this morning. 

Excerpts of his speech can be found below. The speech can also be viewed on YouTube.

On the impeachment procedure

"The role of the Senate is to judge the House's evidence. Allowing the House to poorly develop a case, sacrificing thoroughness for political timing, would have forever changed the dynamic of the chambers respective to each's role in the impeachment process. Should the Senate acquiesce in this manipulation of the process, it welcomes the House to use impeachment as a political weapon whatever the merits of its case."

On Article 2, Obstruction of Congress

"House managers argued the President obstructed Congress for acting on the advice of legal counsel to resist subpoenas. The Judiciary resolves disputes between the Executive and Legislative branches. The House should have exhausted Judicial remedies before bringing this charge. I will vote against Article 2."

On Article 1, Abuse of Power

"The Constitution speaks of "treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.' Because high crimes and misdemeanors are not specifically defined, it is reasonable to assume that the Framers meant for impeachment to occur only if a crime approached levels as severe as treason and bribery. The allegation against President Trump was not proven beyond a reasonable doubt, and it does not meet that high threshold. I shall vote against Article 1."

On partisan impeachments and the ramifications removal would have on our Republic

"Failing to convince the people invites anger towards, disdain for, and abandonment of the democratic process. The Framers required a two-thirds Senate majority for removal to prevent partisanship so that removal only occurs after the House convinces its own members, the Senate, and the American people.

"The partisanship the Founders warned against was reflected in the House's vote with the only bipartisan votes being against impeachment.

"In 1998, then-Congressman Chuck Schumer said of the Clinton impeachment, "I suspect history will show that we have lowered the bar on impeachment so much we have broken the seal on this extreme penalty so cavalierly that it will be used as a routine tool to fight political battles. My fear is that when a Republican wins the White House, Democrats will demand payback.' Mr. Schumer was a prophet. This must stop."