Healthcare


Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, we just had a shutdown over something  that the American people I am not quite sure understand, but what they  do understand is that they cannot afford their health insurance. They  cannot, if you will, afford the cost of being insured. Prices of health  insurance and of healthcare are up for everybody. It is not  sustainable, and they are looking to us--they are looking to Congress-- for solutions.

As a physician, as a doctor, I have seen it firsthand. I have seen  patients come to see me with insurance, but they could not afford their  deductibles. I have seen people who could not afford their insurance  and who therefore take the risk that they will not get sick. We should  not have that in our country.

In July, the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee--the  HELP Committee, which I chair--discussed affordability across the  entire commercial insurance market, trying to find out why costs are  going up so high when you are buying your insurance through your  employer or, as the employer, buying the insurance for the employee.  But it doesn't matter. If you are on the individual market or if you  are on the small business market, you are paying more, and because of  increasing healthcare costs, insurance premiums are climbing as well.

Now let's go to the ObamaCare exchanges because the shutdown we just  had for over 40 days was related to the fact that subsidies are ending  on the ObamaCare exchanges.

A little bit of history: During the COVID pandemic, health insurance  premiums were going up so much that Democrats passed extended,  temporary, enhanced premium tax credits--if you will, EPTCs--which  helped give more money on top of the original ObamaCare subsidies to  help people afford their premiums.

The way it works is they didn't give the money to the patient, to the  individual, to our fellow American; they gave the money to highly  consolidated insurance companies, which take 20 percent of that for  profit and overhead.

Now, I am not knocking insurance companies. We all have insurance for  our cars, for flood insurance, for property and casualty, et cetera. I  am just pointing out that they do take 20 percent of what we give them  for profit and overhead.

By giving the money to the insurance companies, we are not actually  lowering the cost of the premium; we are just papering over it with  subsidies. Somebody is paying for that. It is the taxpayer who is  paying for that. The premium is going up. Yes, the person getting the  insurance pays less, but we the taxpayers are paying for it. There is  no free lunch when it comes to this.

The enhanced premium tax credits don't lower the cost of healthcare,  but they are a bandaid on a broken bone.

By the way, we can prove this.

In 2014, taxpayers covered 68 percent of an ObamaCare exchange  enrollee's premiums. By 2020, 60 percent had become 80 percent, meaning  that is how much the taxpayer was subsidizing. From 2021 to 2025--the  era of the enhanced premium tax credits--the taxpayers' share of  subsidizing the premiums on the exchanges grew to 93 percent. What  started off as 68 percent has become 93 percent this year. Yet, despite  all this money--let me repeat--the actual premium never decreased; it  is just that the taxpayers were paying more of it for our fellow  Americans.

Now, somebody is paying. You and I are paying it. By the way, if you  are not getting extra money, if you are paying for it on your own, you  are still paying those higher and higher rates. If I were that person  individually insured who was not getting the subsidy when everyone else  was but my tax dollars were going to subsidize other people, I would  feel totally taken advantage of. You are paying for others to get  cheaper insurance, but you are paying more because nobody is addressing  the higher costs of healthcare.

We should be fair to our fellow Americans who can't afford their  premiums. We should be fair to our fellow Americans who are not getting  subsidies. So what do we have to do? Well, let's go after the root  cause of what is causing the healthcare costs to rise. Let's find out  why that is, and let's attempt to decrease the cost of healthcare. It  is hard, but I think there are practical solutions that are  implementable that could actually do that.

But that is only one part of the conversation. The second part of the  conversation is, what do we do about January 1, 2026, when the tax  credits that the Democrats passed are set to expire at the end of this  year? What do we do for those Americans who are in some cases facing  $33,000-a-year premiums who have a salary of $90,000? What do we do for  them?

Some people just want to continue the subsidies as they are--the  status quo: Let's continue the subsidies for 3 more years. And, yes,  the premiums will continue to rise. Yes, it will require taxpayers to  subsidize more and more. By the way, the policies we are buying have  $6,000 deductibles. They want to continue that status quo.

Well, I can tell you that I am not interested in the status quo. As a  physician, I can tell you that putting a bandaid over a broken bone  doesn't work. And the Republicans are absolutely interested in finding  a solution that can make healthcare and health insurance more  affordable beginning on January 1, 2026, but going on beyond that.

So what can we do for January 1, 2026? This is where I think we are  headed: If Congress does what it always does, Democrats are going to  put up a bill, and it is going to fail. They are going to put up a  bill, and they are going to know it is going to fail. The Republicans  will put up a bill, and it will fail, and everyone will know that that  bill will fail too.

Then premiums will rise on January 1, 2026. The American people who  are looking to Congress for a solution will find two bills side by  side, neither of which passes and both of which we know will fail, and  their premiums will go up. That should not be an option.

I suggest that we find a solution--not a Republican solution, not a  Democratic solution, but an American solution. Put differently, not an  R, not a D, but an A solution. There are ideas out there on the right  and the left that are big ideas, good ideas, or bad ideas, but they are  going to take a long time to discuss, debate, figure out, and  implement. We have to be focused on January 1, 2026, and that means we  have to build on what we already have. Now, folks may not like what we  already have, but we have to focus on getting something done in 3  weeks.

So we have two choices: Do nothing and accept the premise that no  deal is possible, that the enhanced premium tax credits go away, that  there are no reforms to a failing system, that a Democratic bill and a  Republican bill both fail like so much fails in Congress, and that the  American people are not served--that is one option--or we can roll up  our sleeves and figure out something we can all live with.

I think that there is, if you will, such a sweet spot, one in which  Congress appropriates funds equivalent--roughly equivalent--to what we  would spend on the enhanced premium tax credits, but instead of 100  percent of this money going to insurance companies, which take 20  percent of it for their deductibles and copays, we give 100 percent  almost to the patient, to our fellow American, in an account that she  controls and can use as she wishes.

So I am proposing not to continue--I will put it up there for our  guests in the audience.

Good to see you all.

If we just keep doing what we have been doing for the last 4 years,  we send $26 billion to the insurance companies, which take 20 percent  of it for profit and for overhead--that is under the ObamaCare law that  they can take that 20 percent--or we can send 100 percent to an account  that the patient controls. She makes the decision on her doctor, her  dentist, and on some things that insurance doesn't pay for: eye care,  dental care, orthodonture. She makes the decision. She gets the  healthcare she knows she needs as opposed to the healthcare the  insurance company gives her permission to have. Put differently, giving  her the money gives power to the patient. That is where we should be.

What Democrat wants to give 100 percent of the money to the insurance  companies for them to take 20 percent for profit and overhead? What  Republican does not want to give power to the patient by putting money  in her account for her to use--I am chuckling, and I will tell you why  in a second--as she sees fit?

Sometimes people say--and there are a lot of men up in the audience  who are chuckling with me. Some people say: Well, why do you use the  feminine when you speak about this? Because women make 85 percent of  the decisions in healthcare, and we can trust her to make a decision  which is good for her family's health and which is good for her purse,  which is good for her pocketbook.

Let's have faith in her to make the wise decision for her family as  opposed to having to go to the insurance company, which returns roughly  80 percent of it back but takes 20 percent for profit and overhead.  Give power to the patient.

Now, you can do this because under ObamaCare, you can take a credit  which goes to a more expensive healthcare policy or you can apply it to  a less expensive policy. That gives you savings, and those savings you  can split up between all of the eligible people on the exchanges into  their health savings accounts. It would be to the patient's financial  advantage to take a cheaper plan but to have the health savings account  to help pay for her expenses.

By the way, the health savings account, it has been shown, empowers,  encourages somebody to make wise decisions. If she knows that ``I can  get the x ray here for $500 or down the street for $2,500,'' she is  going to go where she gets it for $500. That begins to lower costs  because the people who are more expensive will lower their costs. She,  the woman in charge of this, is going to drive lower costs across the  healthcare economy.

Some folks say: Wait a second. Health savings accounts--aren't those  just for rich people?

No. One, I don't think they are in general, but in this case, we are  prefunding them. It doesn't matter what your income is. You get more  money. The Federal Government, instead of sending it to the insurance  company, puts it into the account for you. You get more money.

By the way, if you do it the way I would like to set it up, if you  are less well-off, you get more money. If you are a little bit older,  you get more money because--I hate to say it--when you get a little bit  older, your healthcare costs go up. If you have a bunch of kids, you  get a little bit more money, too, because taking a child to the  emergency room can be expensive.

We can make this work for the American family as opposed to the  American family working to get the insurance company to approve the  care they know they need. My plan does not take away coverage. It  doesn't touch the original ObamaCare tax credits. The patients need a  solution that reduces their costs of being insured, not just the cost  of the premium.

There are a lot of other issues to address. I am pro-life. There are  some pro-life issues. But I have found that if we come together in a  well-meaning way and work out a way that we can keep the American  people from getting stuck with a high healthcare cost, treat their tax  dollars with respect, and ideally lower the cost of the program, we can  work out other issues.

President Trump endorses this approach. President Trump has said he  would rather not give money to the insurance companies. He would rather  give it to the people. Actually, he said: Don't give the money to the  money-sucking insurance companies; give it to the patient--or something  like that. President Trump has a way with words. So, however you say  it, let's give the patient the power.

Because President Trump endorses it, though, I do think that  Republicans will by and large support it, that there will be a vote in  the House of Representatives, and that there is enough in here that  Democrats want that Democrats can find some way to embrace it.

The American people want something to pass. Let's work to find  something that can pass. Let's give power to the patient, not profit to  the insurance company. Let's make healthcare affordable again.