Justice in Policing Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, right now we are debating the Great  American Outdoors Act, which would be great if only it were balanced.  My problem with the Great American Outdoors Act is that it spends  billions on places where we vacation, but the authors of the bill would  not allow a few million to be spent to protect the places where we live  and we work and we help create livelihoods for many. 

  There is an amendment that would do that that is bipartisan and that  would not take any money away from the billions that the bill is  already allocating for those places where we vacation. 

  First, let me kind of make my point. Forty-two percent of Americans  live in a county or parish adjacent to a coastline--42 percent. Eighty- five percent of Americans live in a coastal State. But of the billions  that go into the Great American Outdoors Act, of those billions, 50 to  close to 60 percent are spent in seven States, seven localities, and if  you exclude Washington, DC, and areas around Washington, it is not  spent on coastal areas. 

  We are spending billions on places where we go to vacation, but the  authors of the bill will not allow millions to be spent to protect  where we live. That is foolish public policy. We should be investing in  coastal resiliency. 

  Now, of course, the irony is, we are going to spend billions on the  coast. Why? We have seen it. Harris County flooded--that is Houston;  Florida flooded, the panhandle, other parts of Florida; Puerto Rico;  the American Virgin Islands; North Carolina; South Carolina; Georgia;  Hurricane Sandy in New  Jersey and New York; Hurricanes Rita and Katrina on the coast of  Louisiana; also Mississippi and Alabama. 

  We are going to spend billions. We are going to spend billions, but  we are going to spend those billions in the wrong way. We are going to  spend those billions on the coast repairing damage that could have been  prevented if we had spent millions now. 

  I draw attention to a flood wall, a levy, in Terrebonne Parish, LA,  which was recently completed. So we had a high-water event where  flooding came off the Gulf of Mexico. Ten thousand homes were not  flooded because that flood protection had been erected. Ten thousand  homes were not flooded. 

  All I am asking is for the authors of this bill to allow a few  million to be spent where people live, where people work, where people  help others earn their living, and they can still have their billions  to spend on the places where we vacation. 

  I don't want to minimize the need to take care of our national parks.  When someone speaks of a leaky roof, and if you fix it early, then  fixing it early keeps the damage from getting greater--that makes  sense. We should find a way to pay for it, but it makes sense that you  would do that. How much more so when we are speaking about coastal  resiliency? 

  I was told recently that the Army Corps of Engineers wants to build a  $3.5 billion floodgate in Miami to prevent Miami from flooding--$3.5  billion. We are going to spend billions on the coast; it is just a  question of whether we do it in reaction, or whether we do it in kind  of ``we have to fear the worst,'' or whether we do it like in  Terrebonne Parish--building a flood wall now so that 10,000 homes don't  flood. 

  It is my disappointment that the authors of this legislation will not  allow this bipartisan amendment to be added. 

  By the way, we have heard that Democrats are OK with the amendment,  but for whatever reason, the authors will not allow it. 

  Let me show you one other thing, just to make the point. The Great  American Outdoors Act actually has two pots of dollars, if you will.  One is for deferred maintenance--again, 50 to 60 percent of that goes  to seven States. But this shows where the Land and Water Conversation  money goes. 

  These are the coastal States. This is where people live, and these  States, on average, per capita, get $7.53 from the Land and Water  Conservation Fund. These blue States in the interior--some of them  populated, some of them not--on average get $17.66 per capita. We are  sending money to where people don't live to fix vacation spots, which  are important, but it is not where we live, and we are not spending  money where people do live, where their homes are, where their cities  are, and where, if we don't enhance resiliency, we are going to spend  billions when the hurricane hits. This is foolish public policy. 

  By the way, some of my fiscal conservative colleagues--and I consider  myself a fiscal conservative--have weighed in against the Great  American Outdoors Act, saying that we are not paying for it; we are  pretending to pay for it. We are taking dollars that would otherwise go  to the Treasury--otherwise go to the Treasury--and pretending like they  are new dollars. That is actually true. But what we can also say is  that if we add the amendment, the Coastal Act, which I worked on with  Senator Sheldon Whitehouse--he has been a great partner to work with-- we actually would be paying for it. We would be paying for it by  putting in the coastal resiliency that will prevent the future billions  from having to be paid to pick up the pieces after a hurricane hits a  populated area. 

  I will speak again on the floor tomorrow, but I just want to make the  point that the Great American Outdoors Act spends billions where we  vacation, fixing things that we don't wish to get worse. The Coastal  Act does not take away from these billions--these billions that are  spent on places where we vacation; these billions spent where people do  not live--it just spends millions, a paltry few million trying to add  resiliency to where we do live, to where we do work, to where we do  create livelihoods not just for ourselves but for others, and that is a  fiscally sound, fiscally conservative way to spend dollars. That would  save Treasury money, and it would save lives and maybe give people a  little extra money to spend in these parks we are spending billions to  fix up. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT