Letter to Steven Mnuchin, Secretary of the Treasury, and Charles Rettig, Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service - Ernst Pushes for Fix to Allow More Iowans to Access Relief Payments


Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Commissioner Rettig:

We write to request that you explore options for allowing certain Social Security andRailroad Retirement beneficiaries with dependents who missed the April 22nd deadline to stillreceive the additional $500 per qualified dependent this year. We are concerned that individualswere not able to meet the quick turnaround announced in the April 20th guidance and willotherwise have to wait until next year to receive the full economic impact payments they areintended to receive under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.Additionally, we ask for consideration to be given to other federal beneficiaries who may beaffected by a future deadline, such as Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients andveterans receiving Compensation & Pension benefits.

We appreciate your work with the Social Security Administration (SSA) and Departmentof Veterans Affairs (VA) to ensure that those seniors, individuals with disabilities, and theirfamilies who are non-filers and receive Social Security, Railroad Retirement, SSI, or VA benefitsare able to obtain a $1,200 economic impact payment without having to take additional action.The effort to add these groups to the automatic payments process on an expedited basiseliminates a bureaucratic hurdle for many of those most vulnerable to this pandemic and ensuresthat these individuals will quickly receive this much-needed financial relief.

We recognize that efforts to deliver the economic impact payments to qualifiedindividuals as quickly as possible may make it necessary for some groups to take additionalaction to receive their full payments. In particular, individuals who receive benefits from theSSA or VA, did not file a tax return in 2018 or 2019, and have children under age 17 mustprovide further information to the IRS to receive the additional $500 payment per qualifyingdependent. We appreciate the overall objective of not delaying the payments for all beneficiarieswhile this additional information is obtained.

We are concerned, however, that guidance released on April 20th allowed just two daysfor non-filing Social Security and Railroad Retirement beneficiaries with qualifying dependentsto provide information to the IRS or risk not receiving their qualifying dependent payment untilnext year. This short timeline and the limited outreach to-date risk leaving many of thesebeneficiaries unaware of the need to take immediate action to receive the full CARES Actpayments this year. Further, only providing an online option may preclude some individuals from providing the needed information. The online non-filer portal may not be an accessibleoption for those who do not have internet access in their homes and are not currently able to usethe computer at their local community center due to safety measures in place during thecoronavirus pandemic. The instructions for the online non-filers portal also continue to tellSocial Security and Railroad Retirement beneficiaries that they should not use the portal.

Given the short timeline and limited outreach, we ask you to explore all available optionsfor allowing non-filing Social Security and Railroad Retirement beneficiaries with dependentswho missed the April 22nd deadline to receive the additional $500 per qualified dependentwithout having to wait until next year. We also urge you to work with stakeholders to engage inimmediate, targeted outreach to those federal benefit recipients with dependents who have notfiled a 2018 or 2019 tax return and ask that you consider options for a non-web-based alternativeto the online non-filer portal.

Sincerely,