Letter to President Donald Trump - Louisiana delegation requests disaster declaration for tornado damage


Dear President Trump,

We are writing in support of Governor Edwards' request for a Major Disaster Declaration for theState of Louisiana as a result of severe storms and tornadoes on April 12, 2020.

As you know, on Easter Sunday a line of severe storms and tornadoes laid a path of destructionacross north Louisiana, with the heaviest impacts coming from three tornadoes that struckOuachita Parish. Due to restrictions in place as a result of the COVID-19 emergency, OuachitaParish officials have been working alone on the ground to assess and report damages. Theyreport that 116 single-family homes and twelve businesses have been destroyed or sufferedsignificant damage. In addition, Monroe Regional Airport suffered damages that required atemporary closure and suspension of flights, and the Bayou Black Pumping Station, whichprevents flooding in West Monroe, suffered severe damage to three of its pumps. The majority ofsurvivors whose homes were destroyed or damaged lived in Section 8 housing and lack access toalternate housing arrangements. As a result, 273 of the survivors required sheltering across nineseparate hotels to comply with social distancing guidelines. Local officials are working with theState to find long term housing for these survivors. However, without federal assistance many ofthem could be left homeless.

The assistance provided to date by your administration to fight COVID-19 has been critical inslowing its spread in Louisiana. However, our state resources are stretched thin from this fight,as well as from three major natural disasters in 2019 and a tornado that struck Rapides Parish onApril 22, killing one Louisianan. The response to the tornadoes in Ouachita Parish, inconjunction with these events, has overwhelmed state and local resources. We ask that you grantGovernor Edwards' request for a Major Disaster Declaration for Individual and SBA Assistancein Ouachita Parish, as well as for Hazard Mitigation statewide. Thank you for your continuedsupport of Louisiana and for your consideration of this request.

Sincerely,