Prescription Drug Costs


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I am going to speak about the drug  affordability act, what people in Washington call the Grassley-Wyden  bill. 

  I am renaming that bill. I am going to rename that bill to what I  call the ``Making Coronavirus Medicines Affordable Act,'' and I want to  address drug affordability from the perspective of coronavirus and  address it from the perspective of a physician. 

  First, people ask: How is this different than regular flu? Ten  thousand people die a year from flu. Why is this so different from  that? 

  Well, again, as a physician, let me speak to that. Each of us,  however old we are, have been exposed to flu, either by the flu vaccine  or a flu infection, as many years as we have been alive. So when  someone is exposed to the flu, they have a whole kind of armamentarium  of antibodies. When the flu virus comes into your body, those  antibodies mobilize, and it is not an exact fit to block the effects of  the flu virus, but it is a pretty good fit. So for an infection which  otherwise might cause problems, the effect is blunted and the symptoms  are either absent or minimized. 

  As it turns out, the flu virus kills the very young, who have never  before been exposed to the flu virus before, or the very old, whose  immune systems are no longer working as well. Even though they have  been previously exposed, their body is more vulnerable. 

  Now, as for coronavirus, nobody's body has ever seen that before. For  everyone, this is a brand-new infection, and there is not a library  book of immunologic responses that enable us to fight back against this  virus. For all of us, if you will, it is a sucker punch to our health.  We turn around, and, boom, it hits us. 

  Now, in terms of who it can kill, again, it seems to cause problems  in newborns--the very young--but it also causes problems not just in  the very old but in the older but not so very old. 

  In China we have learned that if someone is over 50 and they have an  underlying medical condition, they are at increased risk. If you are  over 60, you are at even more risk. So unlike influenza, where  typically the person who dies would be 75 or 85 and in a nursing home,  in terms of coronavirus, it might be somebody with high blood pressure  or diabetes, heart disease, cancer, or a lung disease, who is otherwise  living life, walking around the streets. They get hit with this virus,  and, all of a sudden, they have a problem. 

  Now, we are going to find a cure. Sooner or later, we will come up  with medicines that help somebody who is infected get well. The  question is, Will those medicines be available to you? That is what we  need to be concerned about. 

  So what does it mean? Well, first there have been reports that both  because of the infection raging through China and a decision by India,  it is possible that some of these drugs will not be available. 

  In China, they make the raw ingredients that are shipped to India,  and they make the medicines. Well, China is not producing as many of  the raw ingredients, and India has put an embargo on the export of some  of those drugs to the United States.  

  At least of the drugs they have embargoed that I saw a list of  recently, none of those medicines are medicines that we think might  ultimately help fight coronavirus. So even though we have a problem  with supply chain, so far there is no evidence it will impact the  ability of a medication, whenever it is discovered, to be available  here in the United States. 

  But there is another issue. Can the senior citizen who is most  vulnerable afford the medicine? 

  Let me put this up. 

  Under the current structure of Medicare Part D, the senior citizen-- the personal Medicare Part D--pays a certain amount of money until they  go into the so-called catastrophic coverage phase. Now, pharmaceutical  manufacturers and pharmacy benefit managers manipulate that list price  to more quickly move the senior citizen into her catastrophic phase,  and when she is in her catastrophic phase of our Medicare Part D  benefit, she must pay 5 percent of whatever is the price of that drug.  Even--imagine this--if that drug costs $1 million a year, she would  have to pay 5 percent of it under the current structure of the Medicare  Part D benefit. 

  I just posted a video on my Facebook page, and an oncology nurse,  Kathy at East Jefferson General Hospital in New Orleans, was speaking  about how this benefit design, where the senior has to pay 5 percent,  no matter the cost, is so harmful in terms of her ability to get  certain cancer drugs to cancer patients. 

  Now, imagine it is a coronavirus drug--a cure for coronavirus that we  know is going to eventually be here, and it can be priced. You name the  price; we are going to pay it. Or can we? Can someone afford 5 percent  of $100,000 or 5 percent of $50,000? Is it imaginable that such a  medication would be priced as such? 

  It is totally imaginable. 

  We need to enact what the chairman of the committee calls the  Grassley-Wyden bill but which I call the ``Making Coronavirus Drugs  Affordable Act.'' 

  What we would do with this bill is change the Part D benefit so that  when a senior pays up to a certain amount, period, it is stopped. She  or he pays no more. And no matter how much that coronavirus drug is  priced, she or he will not pay above a certain amount. 

  If they price it at $100,000, under current law you are paying 5  percent of that. Under this law, you would not. The out-of-pocket  exposure, if you will, is capped. By the way, it also caps it for the  taxpayer, which saves you and me as taxpayers--all of us as taxpayers-- a heck of a lot of money as we attempt to balance the Federal budget  and as we attempt to preserve the life of the Medicare Program. 

  So I will point out that we are going to have a cure for coronavirus  sooner or later, but if a senior citizen or anyone cannot afford that  cure, it is as if the cure had never been invented. We need both for  the cure to be invented and we also need for it to be affordable.  Otherwise, it would not be available. 

  By the way, somebody may tell you they are supporting another bill  either in the House of Representatives or here in the Senate. This is  the only bill out there which is bipartisan. This is the only bill out  there which has a chance to pass. This is the only bill that can  protect senior citizens, not only by being good policy but by being  signed into law by the President of the United States. The President of  the United States has signaled that he, indeed, would sign this law. 

  Now, the ``Making Coronavirus Drug Affordable Act'' does other things  as well. It caps out-of-pocket expenses. It lets patients pay over  time. If they know they are going to have a big amount in January, they  don't have to pay it all in January. They can pay it a little bit in  January, February, March, and all the way through the end of the year.  It protects patients from price gouging, but it still preserves  incentives for these cures to be invented. 

  As we look for a holistic response to the coronavirus infection, we  must keep in mind that drugs have to be affordable. So I am asking all  my fellow Senators to support the ``Making Coronavirus Drugs Affordable  Act,'' also known as the Grassley-Wyden bill, and for Senator McConnell  to bring it to the floor. 

  With that, I introduce my colleague from Montana, Steve Daines, to  continue this discussion. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT