Save America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702013/save-america-act


Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, protecting the integrity of elections  is a constitutional principle. That is why I am a proud cosponsor of  the SAVE America Act requiring a photo ID when someone goes to vote.

Now, Americans have to show a photo ID or proof of citizenship on a  weekly basis--sometimes on a daily basis. The Presiding Officer and I  both fly regularly to Washington, DC, and then back home. You have got  to show who you are. You open a bank account, you show a photo ID. You  cash a check, you show a photo ID. We mentioned boarding a plane.

To require doing the same thing when you go to polls to vote in a  Federal election is merely common sense. It is also not new. It is  already a requirement in many States.

The SAVE America Act does not make it harder to vote; it ensures that  only American citizens vote in American elections, and that is  constitutional.

By the way, this is incredibly popular with the American people.  Madam President, 71 percent of Democrats and 95 percent of Republicans  agree you should have to show a photo ID when you go to vote, so why  hasn't it passed? Why isn't it popular in Congress? Because Senate  Democrats are dead set on pleasing, appeasing a small leftwing base of  the 16 percent of the American people who oppose, so they come up with  reasons not to pass the SAVE America Act, but these concerns have been  addressed.

As an example, what about people who have lost their documents and  cannot prove citizenship? Well, the legislation says that if you are a  citizen and you have lost your documents, or never had them, you can go  to a State election official, swear to the details of your birth date  and location or naturalization details, and register to vote. We have  that option in Louisiana. That alternative process is built into the  SAVE America Act so lack of documentation is not an issue.

But rather than accepting that, Senate Democrats ignore the solution  and get back to work finding another reason to oppose it, ignoring the  fact that 70 percent of their party wants the SAVE America Act passed  into law.

We should be here to serve the will of the American people, and folks  are asking for the assurance of a secure election. The SAVE America Act  helps get that done. We should pass it.

Now, some have said we need to go to a talking filibuster in order to  get this done. I have supported the talking filibuster since my first  day as a Senator in 2015, drawing inspiration from ``Mr. Smith Goes to  Washington''--watching that movie when I was a child and seeing just  kind of that, wow, when somebody gets up here and talks for 36 hours  and everybody else is inconvenienced, somehow you come to a solution  faster. I support using it now to pass the SAVE America Act to restore  trust in our elections and carry out the will of the people.