Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688826/statements-on-introduced-bills-and-joint-resolutions


Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, this is a theme I have been speaking of  which affects States across the Nation, which is the National Flood  Insurance Program and the threat that it might lapse and the inability  of families to be able to afford.

Why are flood insurance premiums so high, you might ask? Flood  insurance premiums have skyrocketed across the country due to FEMA's  new risk assessment system, Risk Rating 2.0. At the heart of the  problem of Risk Rating 2.0 is that with much higher premiums, people  will quickly be unable to afford coverage and just drop their policies.

It is well-known in the insurance actuarial world that when you  increase a policy by a certain percent, there is going to be another  percent of people who just drop their coverage. That means that the  pool of policyholders shrinks, and the program enters into what is  called an actuarial death spiral, which is to say the risk, instead of  being spread out over many, is concentrated in increasingly fewer  people, driving up their premiums even that much more; therefore, more  people drop.

If we do nothing, the National Flood Insurance Program will collapse.  This is important. The National Flood Insurance Program covers 4.7  million American homes across the country. Now, clearly, I am concerned  about Louisiana, as that is my State, but it is not just Louisiana or  even just a coastal issue. Look at a map of those affected. The States  in dark yellow have been hit the hardest by flooding. They have all had  at least $1 billion in claims from the National Flood Insurance  Program. Missouri--inland--has had over $1 billion in claims from the  National Flood Insurance Program, as has my home State of Louisiana.  But just go around, and you can see California and Hawaii--all with  this issue. Now, 44 States have had at least $50 million worth of  claims, and those would be in the kind of mustard color.

So here you see again inland States--not coastal but inland--having  problems with flooding. When we say a ``problem with flooding,'' we  mean there is a family that has lost their possessions. They have lost  their home, and now, they don't know where to go. That is what we mean  by a ``problem with flooding.''

My message to my colleagues representing States that rely on the  National Flood Insurance Program is, let's find a way forward. One day,  the National Flood Insurance Program will lapse if we fail to act.

Now, we are going to, with this CR, do a temporary--temporary-- extension. I would ask that we actually have a reauthorization and a  reform of the National Flood Insurance Program before it is too late.

By the way, a short-term extension is better than nothing. I thank  Speaker Johnson in the House for including a short-term extension. If  that is the only option, let's take that option. However, I am working  on a longer reauthorization so that the National Flood Insurance  Program is not thrown into a legal purgatory every year or even  sometimes multiple times a year.

Today, I have introduced a bill to fully reauthorize the National  Flood Insurance Program for this year and for next year. There are 4.7  million homeowners across the country who deserve that little bit of  certainty, and it does not seem like it is asking too much.

Imagine if your homeowners or life insurance was subject to lapsing  every year if Congress couldn't get their act together. Well, for  families living in communities with the NFIP as the only option for  flood insurance, this would be unsettling.

In the past 10 years, Congress has passed 32 short-term National  Flood Insurance Program extensions. The vote we are taking tomorrow  will be the 33rd short-term extension--American families holding their  breath 33 times. Families need stability. Businesses need stability.  This is the absence of stability. This is a yin and a yang. Congress  needs to reauthorize this for an extended period of time.

Let's make flood insurance affordable again. I will keep working to  do that. I am pleased that the Flood Insurance Program will survive the  weekend, but we need to make it survive long term.                                  ______

By Mr. PADILLA (for himself and Mr. Merkley):

S. 1042. A bill to require the Agricultural Research Service to  conduct research relating to wildfire smoke exposure on wine grapes,  and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and  Forestry.