Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696452/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, the government has been shut down for  nearly a month--the longest full government shutdown in American  history. It all began with the Democratic leader's desire to play  politics with people's lives and paychecks.

Americans, including those in Louisiana, are paying the price.  Nationwide, 1.4 million Federal employees--many of whom, of course, are  living paycheck to paycheck--are furloughed or working without pay, and  13,000 air traffic controllers have already missed 1 paycheck and will  miss another soon.

SNAP, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, and food  stamps--these benefits run out November 1 in many States, like mine,  and that is just 2 days away. In Louisiana alone, that is 804,000  individuals, including 312,000 children, who rely on SNAP.

Now, this is not an abstract ideological issue; we are literally  talking about food on the table. SNAP can be the difference between a  child having a full belly, going to sleep, waking up the next morning,  and going to school happy and that same child asking their mom when is  the next time they will eat a meal, going to bed hungry, and doing  poorly the next day.

Republicans are working to extend the program. I want a bill to fund  SNAP, but it looks like we will not have Democratic support to pass.

There are a lot of empty dinner tables and a lot of children going to  bed hungry. Democrats have voted against reopening our government 13  times. Thirteen times they have voted to deny children food, sending  families to food banks instead.

I am told that food banks will not be able to keep up. Federal  workers, single parents with young children, walking into empty food  banks. That is coming from a party that regularly claims that they are  the party of children, families, and vulnerable communities.

Republicans and the Trump administration are working hard to mitigate  the worst parts of the shutdown. President Trump found the money to pay  our troops through the generosity of a patriotic American. Senate  Republicans voted for a bill to pay all Federal employees, including  air traffic controllers who are working without pay now. Democrats  blocked it.

They are the party of ``no.'' And the bizarre part is no one is quite  sure why, until one of their leaders said the quiet part out loud. The  House Democratic whip acknowledged that Democrats are allowing people  to suffer because of the shutdown but said:

There will be families that are going to suffer . . . but       it is one of the few leverage times that we have.

This is the second highest ranking House Democrat openly confirming  that working families are being used as political leverage.

This is all about politics, not what is best for the people of our  country. Now, they will tell you it is about healthcare, but their  position crumbles under scrutiny. If it were about healthcare costs,  why would they make people suffer more in order to change healthcare  policy rather than reopen the government and negotiate with Republicans  on solutions which actually lower healthcare costs?

Republicans have repeatedly said we will negotiate to lower  healthcare costs, just not while Americans suffer. Our position is  clear: End the shutdown, and then let's talk about healthcare. It seems  reasonable.

You might ask why they are still voting against reopening the  government. It is because they know that their proposals on healthcare  won't actually lower healthcare costs.

Under Democrats' current plan, premiums still go up next year, not to  mention their proposed solution is just aimed at papering over the mess  that ObamaCare created because the facts are clear: The Affordable Care  Act did not make care affordable.

All of this seems like one elaborate attempt to save face. Well, it  is not working, and, more importantly, Americans are suffering. I  repeat: Reopen the government, then let's have a conversation about the  areas in healthcare we can address to actually lower premium costs and  out-of-pocket costs for middle-income Americans.

By the way, the Democrats' current plan will only affect 7 percent of  the people on ObamaCare. Their plan ignores 93 percent of Americans who  will also see costs go up. We need to help all Americans by fixing our  healthcare system, not just paper over the failures of ObamaCare to  help a few.

I will add, for as much as they talk about healthcare, the Democrat  shutdown is defunding important healthcare programs.

As chairman of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee,  I led a bipartisan effort to protect Americans' access to affordable  over-the-counter drugs. The members of my committees worked together to  remodify the Over-the-counter Monograph Drug User Fee Program,  sometimes referred to as OMUFA. This funds the review process to bring  over-the-counter drugs to market.

Because of the shutdown, because of my Democratic colleagues refusing  to vote to open the government, for the first time in history, a user  fee program has expired, meaning patient access to new over-the-counter  treatments for common ailments is in jeopardy.

I am a doctor. I want to tackle the numerous issues facing our  healthcare system. I spent my whole career fighting for patients. Let's  have a conversation about lowering costs for all Americans like those  on Medicare, those with employer-sponsored insurance, and small  business owners who provide insurance to their workers.

If Democrats are interested in lowering healthcare costs, as they say  they are, reopen the government, pay our troops, and stop taking food  from children. I am tired of hearing people say there is no off-ramp or  way out of the shutdown. Here it is, the way forward: Open the  government.                       National Flood Insurance Program

Mr. President, I spoke on this floor a month ago about the  consequences of a government shutdown on our country and upon  Louisiana, particularly the half million Louisianans enrolled in the  National Flood Insurance Program or the NFIP.

I called on Senate Democrats to join me and Republican colleagues in  keeping the government open and Congress working. Unfortunately, the  Senate minority leader shut the government down nearly a month ago to  appease a radical base. That is nearly a month that many people in  Louisiana on the NFIP that have gone without the trust, certainty, and  stability that the program is designed to provide.

Families are unable to close on a new house because they can't  purchase a new flood insurance policy. Homeowners are vulnerable during  hurricane season because they cannot renew existing policies, and that  raises a question the American people are asking every day: How can  they trust a government that isn't even open?

Now, by the way, NFIP is not perfect. It faces financial challenges.  Some reforms are needed. But shutting it down makes the problem worse,  not better.

The Democratic leader said that every day the shutdown gets better  for them. Well, I can tell you every day the government is shut down,  it gets worse for the Americans in my State who are worried about  flooding and losing everything.

The American people want solutions. They want a government that  works. They want flood insurance that protects their homes, families,  and livelihoods. That is why I am working on legislation that would  automatically reauthorize the NFIP if there is any lapse in government  funding; in other words, prevent any future shutdown from interrupting  the NFIP.

It fixes the damage caused by the Schumer shutdown and ensures  stability going forward. My colleague John Kennedy from Louisiana and I  have introduced two bills, one to extend NFIP in the short term,  another to provide a full year of coverage.

We are also working toward broader reforms that keep premiums  affordable and the program sustainable for generations to come.

We must reopen the government immediately. Democrats have voted  against doing so 13 times. Thirteen opportunities they have been given  to end their shutdown, and they have thrown it back in the face of all  Americans.

Government services might be on pause, but hurricane season is not.  Reopen the government, restore certainty to the American people,  protect homes, protect families, protect livelihoods. Republicans are  working to prevent the worst effects of the Schumer shutdown from  taking place, but Democrats keep blocking our efforts.

We want to pay the troops. We want to fund SNAP. We want to extend  NFIP. The American people deserve better. They deserve more than the  Democratic Party is willing to give.