-9999


Ms. ERNST. Madam President, today the Senate will vote to advance the  nomination of Dr. Casey Mulligan to be the Chief Counsel of the Office  of Advocacy at the Small Business Administration. I strongly urge my  colleagues to vote yes in support of his nomination.

Over the past few years, the cost of regulations for small businesses  has been out of control. The previous administration created more than  1,100 final rules, costing $1.8 trillion. The Biden administration's  regulatory costs were 600 times higher than that of the first Trump  administration, and 3.7 times higher than that of the Obama  administration.

In stark contrast, during his first 6 months back in office,  President Trump's deregulatory actions have already saved an estimated  $86 billion and 52.2 million hours in paperwork.

Small businesses back in Iowa and across the country can now spend  more time building their business and hiring employees, instead of  dealing with pointless redtape.

While SBA Administrator Loeffler and the White House are working hard  every day to optimize the regulatory landscape, small businesses  deserve a Senate-confirmed Chief Counsel to help advance this mission.  The Office of Chief Counsel For Advocacy has been vacant, without a  Senate-confirmed occupant, for nearly a decade. This key role champions  the interests and protection of small businesses, and President Trump  nominated a highly qualified individual for this role.

Dr. Casey Mulligan's unique mix of academic success and real-world  experience makes him an ideal candidate for this job. Dr. Mulligan  received his Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, where  he currently serves as an economics professor. In addition, Dr.  Mulligan also owns two small consulting and economic research  businesses.

Over the years, he has conducted extensive research on the economic  effects of regulation on small businesses. At the SBA Office of  Advocacy, Dr. Mulligan will serve as an advocate for small businesses  nationwide.

The Office of Advocacy's duty remains the same regardless of party:  to stand up for the little guy and warn regulators when their proposals  could harm small firms.

Dr. Mulligan understands the significance of Main Street and the need  to evaluate every burden placed on America's entrepreneurs.

Again, I urge my colleagues to support the confirmation of Dr.  Mulligan as Chief Counsel of the Office of Advocacy at SBA.