-9999


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, today the Senate will vote to advance the  nomination of Mr. William Briggs to be the Deputy Administrator of the  Small Business Administration. I strongly urge my colleagues to vote  yes in support of his nomination.

As chair of the Small Business Committee, I have had the honor of  getting to know Mr. Briggs and have seen firsthand what he is bringing  to the table. He is sharp; he is steady; and he is the right person for  the job.

Throughout the committee's rigorous nomination process, Mr. Briggs  showed up prepared. He was respectful and ready to engage. The  professionalism and seriousness with which he approached the committee  made it clear that he would be ready to lead on day one.

In fact, Mr. Briggs is no stranger to the responsibilities of SBA  leadership, having previously served as the Acting Administrator of the  Office of Capital Access.

During his nomination hearing, he emphasized how his previous work  rolling out the Paycheck Protection Program equipped him with practical  knowledge and the necessary experience to effectively root out fraud  and waste throughout the SBA.

As we continue to uncover and pursue fraud, it is critical that we  have a Deputy Administrator who can identify and evade those pitfalls  while simultaneously ensuring the Agency's day-to-day operations are  running smoothly.

Mr. Briggs has also committed to working hand in hand with SBA's  field offices to ensure that small businesses from any community,  instead of just certain demographics, can access the support that they  deserve.

This position isn't just professional for Mr. Briggs, but it is also  personal. As a former entrepreneur who ran two small businesses, he  knows what it is like to balance the books, tackle redtape, and manage  employees.

He also understands the pressures and uncertainty that so many small  business owners face every single day. The one-two punch of his  government experience and private sector entrepreneurship makes Mr.  Briggs the perfect candidate to help Administrator Loeffler make the  SBA more accountable, more efficient, more transparent, and more  focused on its core mission, which is helping America's job creators  succeed.

Let's give Main Street America someone who will fight with them and  for them.

Again, I urge all of my colleagues to support Mr. Briggs' nomination  for Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration.