Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, legend has it that all the halls of the  Capitol are haunted by a demon cat. If you look closely, paw prints  left behind by this stray spirit can be spotted outside the entrance of  the Old Supreme Court Chamber.

From poltergeists to apparitions of Abraham Lincoln and other dead  Presidents, Washington has a long history of ghost stories.

The city itself was transformed into a ghost town when government  workers disappeared from their desks as a result of President Biden's  lax telework policies. For years, most Agency headquarters were left  with just a skeleton crew.

Even after the bureaucrats were called back to work by President  Trump, before being furloughed by the government shutdown, the  buildings remained largely empty. Thousands of other government  buildings are completely vacant. Thousands are uninhabited by a single  soul in Washington, DC.

Deserted and left in a state of disrepair for years, many properties  have been condemned to a fate worse than death. One was described as a  ``roach-infested mold dungeon.'' Bugs were spotted crawling out of  faucets and creeping across the floors of another. While some have been  described as cold, gray eyesores, others are literally deathtraps. The  drinking water in many sat stagnant for so long that it turned into a  deadly potion of toxic metals and biohazards.

Renovations and upgrades to make the horrifying offices habitable  again would cost the taxpayers--and prepare, unfortunately, for a jump  scare--$370 billion. Yes, folks, that is billion with a ``b.''

I just don't know what possesses Washington to hold on to decaying  properties.

Meanwhile, around the country, other old haunts are returning from  beyond the grave. But there is no reason to fear this zombie  apocalypse. It is that time of year when boarded-up businesses come  back to life as Spirit Halloween stores. It is almost spooky how fast  these Halloween stores pop up, transforming the remains of abandoned  buildings into a billion-dollar business. Spirit Halloween's successful  body-snatching business model scares up a great idea for reviving the  government's graveyard of lifeless real estate.

Let's sell off these haunted houses to businesses that can breathe  new life into them. That trick would be a real treat for the taxpayers  because it would both reduce costs and bring in billions of dollars  from monstrous sales. It is an idea only a zombie wouldn't like since  it is such a no-brainer.

My DISPOSAL Act would fast-track the sale of unused, unneeded, and  underutilized government properties. Congress should embrace the  Halloween spirit by passing this bill and let the unfurling of Spirit  Halloween banners begin.

Many of the properties that would be put on the market by my bill are  in prime locations, so potential buyers should be prepared to act  quickly before these once-in-a-lifetime sales vanish like a ghost.

The real monster this bill is designed to slay, however, is one that  has been lurking around Washington for way too long: our national debt,  which now exceeds $38 trillion. That amount should scare us all into  taking action.