Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, for over a decade, I have led the charge to  expose government abuses, curb reckless regulations, and protect hard- working taxpayers from Washington's overreach.

As my colleagues have so rightly discussed, the actions by the Biden  administration made it necessary for President Trump to declare a  national energy emergency on day one.

The Biden administration's green energy programs artificially  incentivized electric vehicles using billions of taxpayer dollars, with  only 60 charging stations to show for it. Folks, that is just one of  the many energy-related billion-dollar boondoggles by the former  administration.

As chair and founder of the Senate DOGE Caucus, I committed to  preventing unchecked bureaucrats from issuing regulations that impose  significant new costs and stifle growth. Every day, DOGE is uncovering  just how far the Biden administration went to conceal its reckless  spending through the Federal Agencies, especially regarding their  climate pet projects.

Instead of transparency and objective analysis, Biden's bureaucrats  relied on manipulation, inflated so-called ``net benefits,'' and  completely disregarded economic reality in their rulemakings. And they  were prolific, churning out nearly 110,000 pages of regulations just  last year. That is 1 year and 110,000 pages--the highest number ever.

Between November 2023 and January 2025 alone, Agencies issued 50  final rules using shady accounting gimmicks, slapping over half a  trillion dollars in regulatory burdens onto hard-working Americans.  This included a relentless push to regulate truckers out of business,  based on the audacious claim that its extreme emissions rules would  somehow create $99 billion in benefits for society.

But here is the reality, folks: These policies make everything more  expensive for families, they kill jobs, and they hurt our small  businesses.

It doesn't stop there. The Department of Energy cited billions in so- called ``climate net benefits'' and the ``social cost of greenhouse  gases'' to justify heavyhanded mandates, ignoring the very real costs  passed on to farmers and manufacturers.

For too long, unelected bureaucrats have ignored the voices of job  creators and working families, pushing costly regulations while hiding  the true impact. This is why my RED TAPE Act is critical. My bill  ensures that Agencies can no longer manipulate a cost-benefit analysis  to push their own agenda. It requires Agencies to prioritize data- driven, measurable economic benefits, not vague ideological  justifications.

While some Federal employees complain about the new directives from  the Trump administration, they should take a moment to understand that  hard-working Americans who have had to show up to work and take risks  to open businesses will no longer tolerate having to foot the bill for  regulatory overreach.

I am voting no on this effort to end President Trump's national  energy emergency. I support the President's efforts to make energy more  available and affordable to power economic growth.