Congratulating Colonel Dominic V. Dinh on His Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695089/congratulating-colonel-dominic-v-dinh-on-his-retirement


Mr. MIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Colonel Dominic V.  Dinh on his retirement from the United States Army Reserve.

Colonel Dinh immigrated to the United States as a Vietnamese refugee  in April 1975 and joined the Army Reserve in 1990 while a resident of  Costa Mesa, California, in my district. A member of the University of  Southern California's ROTC program, Colonel Dinh was commissioned as an  officer in December 1995 and graduated from the Armor Basic Officer  Leader Course in September 1996.

Colonel Dinh served our country honorably for 35 years, culminating  in his service as commander of the 455th Chemical Brigade in Sloan,  Nevada. Colonel Dinh's leadership positively impacted the lives of  countless servicemembers.

I am certain that his dedication and achievement will have a lasting  impact on the Army's ability to fight and win our Nation's wars.

Upon retirement, Colonel Dinh is recognized for his distinguished  service and exemplary performance of duty, reflecting the highest  tradition of the United States of America.

Colonel Dinh is married to Ashlie Anne Dinh, and they have two  daughters, Quintessa and Montelena.

In his civilian career, Colonel Dinh continues to serve honorably,  keeping our communities safe as an Orange County deputy sheriff, where  he has served for 27 years.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate his commitment to service not only for  Orange County but for his country.                      Concerns About ICE Raid in Georgia

Mr. MIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my deep concerns about the  ICE raid that occurred last Friday on a Korean factory in Georgia.

Now, we have uncertainty as to the facts involved here. ICE has  claimed that there were a number of undocumented immigrants. President  Trump has claimed that the people who were apprehended and detained all  came into this country illegally. At the same time, the Korean  Government has maintained that of the 300-some-odd Korean nationals who  were arrested and detained, all of them were here on valid visas.

We have to get to the bottom of this. Somebody is not telling the  truth. Unfortunately, during the last 9 months, ICE has developed a  reputation for lawlessness, for breaking the laws of this country, for  recklessness, for showing shock and awe, for unnecessarily brutal and  violent confrontations, and for lying about it under the so-called  leadership of current ICE Acting Director Todd Lyons and border czar  Tom Homan.

In fact, I will say that when I visited my ICE facilities in Santa  Ana a few weeks back, I was repeatedly lied to, including having ICE  government relations people tell me that there had been zero  warrantless raids in Orange County by ICE, DHS, or CBP and that zero  complaints had been filed or litigation filed against ICE in Orange  County, things that were demonstrably untrue.

At this point, I think it is necessary to demand an investigation so  we have transparency and oversight. Unfortunately, I don't think we can  take ICE's word for what happened.

This is an international incident. It threatens hundreds of billions  of dollars in investment in this country. We need to get to the bottom  of this. We need answers. We need accountability. We need oversight.