Consequences of Doge


Mr. MIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about Elon Musk and the  Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, and the deadly and  devastating consequences of their illegal actions, which will  reverberate long after they are gone. The theme of today's Special  Order hour is that the Musk is gone, but the stench remains.

Elon Musk supposedly has left the Federal Government. I just want to  remind people that when President Trump issued his executive order  creating the Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, and  appointed Elon Musk in the role related to DOGE, DOGE was created as a  temporary organization.

Elon Musk was appointed as a special government employee, and this  was to avoid having any kind of Senate confirmation or congressional  creation of the agency or any confirmation of Elon Musk.

Mr. Speaker, I will remind you that the entire time that Elon Musk  was in office or as a Federal employee, he was, in fact, exercising  powers that were far greater than any special government employee would  be allowed to have. He was exercising powers that would be at the  highest levels of government, higher than an agency or department head,  in effect, exerting powers that the President himself does not hold.

He violated the law every single day he was a special government  employee. DOGE employees continue to remain today. Even though Elon  Musk is gone, there are something like a hundred or more DOGE special  governmental employees and other employees scattered around the Federal  Government that are in a position to continue the wreckage that Elon  Musk created.

I know that Elon Musk and Donald Trump have created a lot of news  with their catfighting earlier today, but I will just remind folks,  again, that the damage Elon Musk did is going to take a long time to  repair. What he did, essentially, was try to upend the Constitution.

Elon Musk, as a special government employee, purported to be able to  undo acts of Congress, to illegally impound funds that Congress had  appropriated, to undo laws we have created, and to undo agencies we  have created. There is a long list of stuff that he did, that DOGE did,  including illegally deleting or ending the Department of Education,  ditto with USAID, the U.S. Institute for Peace, and the Consumer  Financial Protection Bureau.

Importantly, most of these were institutions created through acts of  Congress, funded with appropriations authorized by Congress. Even my  children know that the Constitution is clear on this point: Congress  and only Congress has the power to enact laws. Congress and only  Congress has the power to appropriate funds.

It is very clear in our Article I authorities. The President does not  have the authority to try to undo our laws or to impound funds that we  have appropriated. Certainly a special government employee like Elon  Musk does not have that authority.

This is about a core tenet of the Constitution of the United States  that every single one of us in Congress swears to support and defend  when we take office. Yet, too many on the other side of the aisle  during this entire time pretended like this wasn't happening, pretended  like Elon Musk was not violating the law every single day.

Now he is apparently gone from the Federal Government, but the vast  amount of wreckage that he did during his time with DOGE is something  that we are going to have to analyze and understand because there has  been a complete lack of oversight from Congress, including from the  Oversight Committee that I sit on, over these past few months.

There had been reports that Elon Musk and DOGE were given complete  God-level access to the Federal Government's top systems: including  private and sensitive data for all Americans, classified information,  budget information, and payment systems, et cetera.

From a conflict of interest standpoint, Elon Musk has vacuumed up  many billions of dollars in Federal contracts for his companies and  enriched himself. Tesla, SpaceX, Starlink have all profited under  Musk's time as a Federal employee. At the same time, he went out of his  way to kill several enforcement actions that were underway by different  Federal agencies against his businesses, allowing his companies and  himself to evade oversight. He was able to help place key personnel in  agencies that now are looking to benefit his companies financially.

Mr. Speaker, going back to the data privacy point, Elon Musk and DOGE  have allegedly used Musk's AI chatbot, Grok, within Federal agencies.  This model has likely been trained on nonpublic data by incompetent  DOGE workers. DOGE has also sought access to sensitive government data  for millions and millions of Americans, while likely violating the  Privacy Act of 1974 repeatedly.

This is not just a matter of our information being out there,  potentially being used by Musk's AI systems in violation of all laws;  it is also a major national security concern. Bad actors will now have  a much easier time siphoning off U.S. data due to the cybersecurity  vulnerabilities that Elon Musk has created.

Earlier this morning, the Oversight Committee held a hearing on how  artificial intelligence has been integrated into the Federal Government  by Elon Musk and DOGE. Entrusting DOGE with our personal data is not  only a terrifying thought but one that will have terrible consequences  for Americans throughout the country. Trying to automate the Federal  Government through AI without a true plan or any data privacy  safeguards, while firing haphazardly many of the technology support  workers who understood those systems, is going to have a massive  negative impact on Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I see that I have here with me a fellow Member, and I  will concede in just a few moments.

I will continue by saying that many of my constituents right now are  complaining about some of the effects we are already seeing from the  haphazard and illegal cuts to personnel made by Elon Musk and DOGE,  including many who are complaining now that they are having difficulty  accessing their Social Security benefits because of the mass cuts in  SSA.

These are real people that are not getting their benefits. They can't  get anyone on the phone when they try to call Social Security. The  reality is that Elon Musk, again, illegally fired a bunch of workers,  even though he had no such authority to do so.

I will emphasize that this body, Congress, has refused to engage in  any oversight to date over Elon Musk, and the only reason that we may  be able to do so right now is because Elon Musk, apparently, is in a  tit for tat with Donald Trump.

I suspect some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will  finally wake up to some of the wrongdoing, some of the illegal actions  that Elon Musk has been engaged in since January 20.

I will also point out that this has never been about waste, fraud,  and abuse. It has certainly never been about efficiency. You don't  eliminate entire agencies and departments as Elon Musk has done, you  don't get rid of 50 percent of the personnel at Social Security, or the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration if you are simply  trying to improve efficiency and get rid of waste, fraud, and abuse.

This was always about finding enough cuts to try to partially pay for  the massive $7 trillion tax cuts for billionaires that House  Republicans, Donald Trump, and Senate Republicans want to pass right  now. That is what this is about.

There is a slash-and-burn attitude to firing many thousands of  Federal employees. They have attempted to fire hundreds of thousands of  Federal employees, including those at the Consumer Financial Protection  Bureau, the Department of Labor, and other critical agencies.

We have seen this firing be so haphazard that they have had to hire  some of them back, including the decision to fire all the National  Nuclear Security Administration personnel responsible for overseeing  our U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile and then having to rehire them once  they had realized who they had actually fired. He fired key scientists  and pandemic experts, as well, and he repeatedly miscalculated and  misrepresented the savings that DOGE cuts had made to our budget.

They have also made the Federal Government much more bureaucratic and  less efficient. I have a lot of burgeoning life sciences industry in my  district, lots of companies doing medical devices and innovative drugs.  They have all reported to me that they are deeply concerned about the  massive cuts at the Food and Drug Administration because those cuts  mean that they can't get anyone on the phone. They can't find people to  try to prove their drugs and devices, and this has created additional  red tape and hurdles that made it very difficult.

There is a lot of uncertainty right now. These are companies that,  again, are creating thousands and thousands of jobs, providing billions  of dollars in collective impact to the southern California area. We are  seeing this story writ large across the board right now.

Mr. Speaker, I will talk some more about the enormity of DOGE's  illegal cuts, as well as how they have fared in the legal system.

Since DOGE was stood up by President Trump and Elon Musk, it has cut:  About $6.5 billion for the U.S. Agency for International Development;  $502 million from the Department of Education; $232 million from the  Social Security Administration; $192 million from the General Services  Administration; $173 million from the Department  of Agriculture; $152 million from the Department of Health and Human  Services; $133 million from the Department of Transportation; and $119  million from the Department of Commerce.

We didn't have any transparency into what these cuts were justified  on, what they were meant to do. These were in addition to the attempts  to shutter USAID, the Department of Education, the Consumer Financial  Protection Bureau, the U.S. Institute for Peace, and many other  critical agencies, departments, and programs.

Mr. Speaker, I will note that the courts have continued to find that  these cuts were, by and large, illegal, that Elon Musk did not have any  authority to undo acts of Congress, and that Congress and only Congress  can shut down agencies that we have created. Congress and only Congress  can defund agencies from funds that we have previously appropriated.

Stansbury), the ranking member of the House Oversight Committee's  Subcommittee on Delivering on Government Efficiency.

Mr. MIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congresswoman for her comments. It  has indeed been a messy day. I think that prices are getting too high  at this moment in time. Elon Musk is, I believe, really inflating the  price of popcorn right now. This is something that is going to affect  my household.

Mr. Speaker, I want to continue back to Elon Musk. Whatever side is  taken in this debate, we cannot forget that Elon Musk, again,  repeatedly violated the law. He made illegal spending cuts. He tried to  eliminate agencies created by Congress. This was not jaywalking. We are  talking about serious crimes against the Constitution of the United  States.

His actions were characterized not only by their illegality but also  by their immorality and incompetence, the three I's.

We saw the immorality as he continued to cut programs that were meant  to help our poorest and most vulnerable.

Social Security is a lifeline program for all the seniors around the  country, including the ones in the district I represent. He called it a  Ponzi scheme.

He cut so much of the workforce. Again, I have many constituents now  complaining they can't get access to their benefits. They can't get  anyone on the phone when there is a mistake. It seems deliberate in its  scope. They have been incompetent.

I have mentioned many of the things they have done as far as firing  the nuclear inspectors and miscalculating DOGE's savings.

They granted a DOGE staffer access to edit sensitive Treasury  systems, prompting an internal forensic investigation.

They gutted the CFPB, only to unsuspend staffers and uncancel  contracts after it became apparent that CFPB could no longer perform  its legally mandated functions.

They inadvertently canceled funding for Ebola prevention. They  uncanceled lease terminations after agency and congressional pushback.  This could go on and on.

The point is that this, again, was never about efficiency. It was  never about finding waste, fraud, and abuse. That was always the big  lie. What Elon Musk was trying to do was reshape government illegally  against the express will of Congress.

Unfortunately, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle failed to  stand up to this abuse of law and this direct attack on our  Constitution and our authorities.

The courts, thankfully, have stepped up. Right now, the Trump  administration and DOGE are embroiled in over 252 lawsuits. They have  lost almost all of these at various stages at the district court and  appellate level, including several in the Supreme Court. They are  continuing to appeal.

Even as this has happened, many of our colleagues on the other side  of the aisle, rather than stand up for Congress' authority under the  Constitution, have tried to go after judges. They have threatened  judges. They have tried to take away some of their authority.

We saw that most recently in the big, beautiful bill, which I think  Republicans are now realizing was actually a Frankenstein-level  monstrosity of extreme provisions that many of them did not realize  were in there.

One such provision was the one in that bill that would effectively  neuter the judiciary's power to hold any administration official in  contempt. This provision is a little wonky. In essence, it prohibits  Federal courts from enforcing contempt citations which a judge can  issue for noncompliance of a court order.

Now, what this would do is effectively shield the Trump  administration from wrongdoing and that no judge could enforce any  penalties against the Trump administration for failing to respond to  court orders, for failing to obey the Constitution or the law.

What is concerning about this that is we have found an increasing  number of Republicans who are publicly admitting now that they didn't  realize that this provision was in the big, beautiful bill that they  passed. Of course, we all remember a couple weeks back this bill was  pushed through in the dark of night, after 1 a.m. It was clear that it  was rushed through so quickly that most of our colleagues did not have  time to read it, did not understand what was in it, and did not have  time to have their staffs review what was in it.

This was an unconscionable process that is leading to outrageous  results.

We are also seeing other examples of provisions that my Republican  colleagues were not aware was in the bill. Just earlier this week,  Marjorie Taylor Greene, whom I serve with on the Oversight and  Government Reform Committee, noted that she did not realize that there  was a 10-year moratorium on artificial intelligence regulations created  as part of this big, beautiful bill and said explicitly that she would  oppose it.

She had a chance to oppose it when the bill was on the floor but  didn't read it. I would suggest to my Republican colleagues that maybe  reading the bills that we are passing is a good idea before they decide  to vote on them, particularly when they are rushing it through on a  partisan line vote.

I come from a legal background. I started my career turning down Wall  Street to go work at the SEC to crack down on corporate fraud, and to  uphold the rule of law. I have continued fighting for the rule of law  my whole career, including as a law professor at UC-Irvine.

What we are seeing right now is deeply offensive to the rule of law.  What we saw this last election cycle is Elon Musk spending $290 million  on behalf of Donald Trump and other Republican candidates. Mr. Speaker,  $290 million is a lot of money. That has paid off very well, a very  good return on investment for Elon Musk because his wealth has gone up  $100 billion with a b since he took office.

Despite all the disasters we have seen, and despite the massively  declining sales of Tesla, his net wealth has gone way the hell up. That  is because he uniquely, even as other spending gets cut--willy-nilly  because a 21-year-old coder named Big Balls decides to delete a line of  code--Elon Musk is getting massive new government contracts including  an $8.5-billion contract for Tesla from the GSA for electric vehicles;  a $2.4 billion contract for SpaceLink--which was originally meant for  Verizon but which was canceled and mysteriously then transferred over  to SpaceX which happens to be conveniently owned by Elon Musk--and on  and on and on.

Now this looks like a quid pro quo. This looks like something that  should not be allowed to exist, particularly when you have a man, Mr.  Speaker, who is repeatedly, flagrantly, and knowingly violating the law  every single day and upending the Constitution. The damage to this  country that we are going to see over the next several decades, that we  are seeing already happen right now, is going to be devastating.

Just earlier last week, I had a townhall at UC-Irvine which I  represent. As many people around the country are beginning to realize,  a lot of what is happening right now is threatening our economic  present but also our economic future.

There are massive cuts being made to science and research funding for  universities which have long been the basis for our innovation economy.  Whether in California, Boston, Atlanta, or around the country, we know  that high-end research creates jobs. It leads to innovation that leads  to new companies. It is what has made America great over time. Yet,  right now, those cuts are massive. Right now we have seen NSA, NIH, and  other agencies in the Trump administration illegally refuse to spend  and allocate research funding that Congress has appropriated.

That, in turn, has led already to firing of many grad students of  programs' innovations.

Also, concerningly, we are starting to see the compounding effects of  the attacks on legal immigrants here, people here on student visas.

Mr. Speaker, you may recall that just a few weeks back, the Trump  administration announced that they would be rounding up a whole posse  of students who had minor run-ins with the law. In the University of  California system alone, there were something like 165 students here on  valid student visas who have been arrested with no due process and put  into deportation proceedings. In one case it is because they ran a stop  sign. In another case it was because they were in a domestic dispute.  Their partner called the police. When the police arrived, they actually  found that the immigrant, the person here on a student visa, was not  the abuser but actually probably had been abused. They decided not to  proceed with this. However, because there is a police report, even one  that falsely accused this immigrant, that immigrant was put into  deportation proceedings.

The Trump administration did reverse that policy after public outcry.  We are seeing that the best and brightest foreign students who have  traditionally come to this country, to places like Harvard, MIT, UC-San  Francisco and Stanford, are not coming here. They are going to other  countries right now.

That cumulative effect is draining our future right now. We are  talking about entire industries predicated on technology, on research,  and on life sciences that we expect to see massive declines in in 10,  15, or 20 years.

We are robbing our future right now, and for what?

I don't know, to give Elon Musk a little bit more?

The damage is going to be incalculable across the board. However, I  think the biggest damage that we are going to see is to our public  trust in our institutions.

Right now we are seeing corruption on a scale we have never seen  before in the history of this country. A $400 million Qatari gift of a  palace in the sky to Donald Trump was just the thing that made the  news. Meanwhile, he is having dinners with massive donors who are  giving billions and billions of dollars to his meme coin. We are seeing  bribes happen across the board. We are seeing emoluments over and over  and over to the President and his family. Mr. Speaker, yes, we are  seeing Elon Musk getting a ransom from the Federal Government as far as  new contracts that have personally benefited him to no end.

We have to start enforcing the rule of law in this country. As  someone who has always believed in the rule of law and who has stood  closely side by side with our law enforcement officers, with our  prosecutors, and with those who are trying to uphold the rule of law in  this country and the Constitution, I would urge my colleagues on the  other side of the room to start thinking about that oath that we took  when we took this office to support and defend the Constitution.

Those are not just words. They are the foundation of what it means to  serve in Congress, of what it means to serve in the Federal Government,  and of what it means to be a patriotic American.

Mr. Speaker, if you are not enforcing the Constitution of the United  States and if you are not enforcing the rule of law and standing up for  the authorities of Congress, which is a coequal branch of government  and not a lackey of the President, then what do we stand for?

What are we doing here?

I know that many of my colleagues on the other side are scared of  Donald  Trump and Elon Musk, frankly, too, but that should be no excuse for not  standing up and doing what is right.

We have to stand up and have an accounting of all the damage that  Elon Musk did during his time at DOGE. Again, he is a special  government employee who never disclosed his conflicts of interest and  who illegally exerted his authority that an SGE should never have and  that the President of the United States does not have.

We need a real accounting of what happened, the damage that has been  done, as well as all of the laws and Constitutional provisions that he  and every other member of DOGE has done. This is the time to do it. I  would urge my colleagues to actually start stepping up for the  Constitution.