Cuts to Forest Service Endanger Millions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689810/cuts-to-forest-service-endanger-millions


Mr. MIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge the Trump administration  to consider reversing its reckless and dangerous terminations of Forest  Service employees.

I represent an area in Orange County that is prone to the same types  of wildfire risks that we saw devastate Los Angeles not too long ago.  We are about a month or two away from fire season. We have had a number  of fires similar, but smaller in scope, to the one that just hit Los  Angeles due to the Santa Ana winds that come through our area in  southern California every year and also due to drier conditions because  of climate change and droughts. We know that an ounce of prevention is  worth a pound of cure, and so we need to have these types of resources  in place.

As wildfires grow more and more intense, as the risks of wildfire  become more and more ubiquitous, our firefighters are tired. They are  understaffed, underresourced, and underpaid. We need more funding to  protect our communities from megafires. Instead, this administration is  choosing to strip our key first responders in the U.S. Forest Service  of resources that make millions of Americans safer, including the ones  I represent in Orange County.

Let's be clear, if we are looking for efficiency, this is the  opposite of efficiency. There is nothing efficient about firing  essential public safety officials right before fire season. These are  the people we deploy to try to clear the brush. They are the first  responders who alert our fire departments of early onset wildfires  before they become deadly multibillion-dollar disasters. That is why we  rehired so many of the very same people that DOGE tried to fire in the  first place due to the inefficiency, the gross incompetence of Elon  Musk and the people who are working with him.

This administration is also lying about retaining employees to help  fight fires on the ground. Around 75 percent of those who were let go  had firefighting experience, and now we are having to rehire some of  them. This is what happens when you have 21-year-old hackers named  ``Big Balls'' deciding how to cut our agencies as opposed to experts  who know what they are doing. The incompetence of DOGE and Elon Musk is  exposing Californians and millions of people around the country to  unprecedented danger. We have to do something about it before it is too  late.

I urge Congress to intervene, reverse these cuts, and stop this  administration from putting more Americans in harm's way.