Electric Supply Chain Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697895/electric-supply-chain-act


Mr. MIN. Mr. Chair, I rise as the designee of Ms. Houlahan, and I  have an amendment at the desk.

Mr. MIN. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of this straightforward amendment  to the Electric Supply Chain Act, an amendment that strengthens our  workforce, supports veterans, and helps ensure the reliability and  security of our Nation's energy supply.

As a Representative of California, I know how essential it is that we  shore up the workforce powering our electric supply chain.  Manufacturers in California and across the country consistently tell us  the same thing: Workforce shortages are slowing down projects, driving  up costs, and ultimately are a major contributor to higher prices for  working families.

The data is clear: Nearly 10,000 electricians retire each year, while  only about 7,000 new entrants come in each year, according to the  Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Goldman Sachs has estimated the United States will need roughly  510,000 new workers just to meet rising power demand over the next  decade. Annually, we have more than 200,000 servicemembers who  transition out of the military, many with exactly the same technical  skills, discipline, and mission-focused mindset that our energy system  needs and that employers are looking for.

This amendment would simply direct the Department of Energy to  regularly assess how to expand veteran, servicemember, and military  spouse participation in this workforce, what barriers are preventing  entry into these fields, and where improved Federal coordination can  better coordinate this talent to areas of real need.

Strengthening supply chains means strengthening the people behind  them. Few are better prepared for these careers than our veterans and  military families, and this is an important transition for them, as  well.

This is a practical improvement to the underlying bill, which  promotes national security, energy resilience, and economic opportunity  for those who have served.

Mr. MIN. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. MIN. Mr. Chair, my amendment to the Electric Supply Chain Act  would expand the periodic reports required under this bill to include a  critical assessment of advanced transmission technologies.

In my district and across the country, families are seeing soaring  energy costs brought on by load growth and extreme weather, including  wildfires. An aging and inefficient grid is bottlenecking the growing  demand for new and reliable power, causing prices to go up and limiting  the electrons that can reach areas that need this electricity.

We must meet this challenge, grow our economy, and bring down the  energy bills that are rising so quickly and crushing so many of our  constituents today. To do that, we need to build more transmission  infrastructure.

We also need to leverage innovation that we have to maximize our  current electric transmission rights-of-way. Advanced transmission  technologies like high-performance conductors present a unique  opportunity to upgrade the electric grid we already have and ensure  that new infrastructure is more efficient and affordable.

According to the Department of Energy, using advanced conductors can  double the capacity of existing transmission lines, and over 100,000  miles of lines can currently benefit from these technologies.

Importantly, these technologies have minimal land use impacts, can be  installed without the decades-long permitting timelines required for  new lines, and increase the resiliency of the grid against wildfires  helping keep districts like mine safe from the growing threats of these  natural disasters that are often under severe fire risk.

It is why major utilities in California are building their lines with  advanced  conductors and why States across the country are passing new laws to  promote their adoption.

I am proud to actually represent two of the largest manufacturers of  advanced transmission conductors in my district: CTC Global and TS  Conductor. These companies are extraordinary examples of American  innovation and manufacturing which is helping pioneer the grid of the  future and create high-skilled domestic jobs in the process.

Mr. Chairman, I urge Members to support my amendment, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. MIN. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.