Dobbs Decision Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692969/dobbs-decision-anniversary


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, 3 years ago, the Supreme Court overturned  Roe v. Wade, ripping away a constitutional right that generations of  women had relied on for nearly one-half century.

In that moment, the Court did not just revoke a legal precedent, they  set in motion a wave of chaos, cruelty, and control. What followed was  a full-scale assault on reproductive healthcare: abortion,  contraception, IVF, and even access to emergency care.

In Ohio, we felt the effects immediately. Just hours after the Dobbs  decision was handed down, an extreme and deeply unpopular 6-week  abortion ban went into effect, essentially outlawing abortion before  many people even knew they are pregnant.

That law put the lives of millions of women in danger overnight. It  forced healthcare providers to choose between following their sworn  oath to care for patients or facing criminal charges. It caused trauma  and suffering that cannot be undone.

In fact, Mr. Speaker, a 10-year-old rape victim was denied the care  she needed and was forced to flee the State  to get the care that saved her life and her future.

Yet, despite all of this, the people of Ohio did what we have always  done in the face of injustice. We fought back.

In November 2023, Ohioans from across the political spectrum came  together and voted to enshrine reproductive freedom directly into our  State's constitution: the ability to bear a child, to use  contraception, and to access abortion care. It was a powerful, hopeful  moment, but, Mr. Speaker, our work is far from over.

That is because within days of that historic vote, Republican  lawmakers in Ohio announced they would do everything in their power to  prevent our laws from being removed.

That is right. Just days after the people spoke loudly and clearly,  some legislators pledged to ignore the will of the voters, and now they  are following through. Just last week, members of the Ohio House of  Representatives introduced one of the most extreme anti-choice bills in  the country.

This dangerous bill would ban nearly all abortions in Ohio,  criminalize doctors, and potentially treat patients seeking care as  criminals. Let me be crystal clear. Under this proposal, abortion could  be prosecuted as homicide. There would be no meaningful exceptions, not  for rape and not for incest.

One of the bill's lead supporters, an anti-woman activist, was asked  whether he worried this would overturn the will of the voters, the  constitutional amendment the people of Ohio passed a couple of years  ago. He said that he wasn't concerned. He said: ``The will of the  voters was evil.''

The will of the voters was evil.

Mr. Speaker, I don't think I have heard anything less American. The  will of the voters is the bedrock of our democracy, and just as these  extremists want to take away the decisionmaking capabilities of women,  they have not stopped there. They want to take away the decisionmaking  capability of all Ohioans.

That is the ideology we are up against. It is one where the voice of  the people isn't just disregarded, but it is condemned. It is one where  bodily autonomy is labeled evil. It is one where political extremists  will stop at nothing, not even the State constitution, to impose their  beliefs on the rest of us. It is chilling and it is dangerous.

This uncertainty is not just an Ohio problem. The United States  Supreme Court's recent decision in Moyle v. United States dismissed an  opportunity to affirm that emergency abortion care is protected under  Federal law. Instead, they punted, refusing to give clarity and  refusing to give peace of mind to women and doctors across the country.

That is why I introduced a resolution to reaffirm access to emergency  care and abortion care to all Americans. That is why House Democrats  have introduced bills to guarantee abortion rights across the country  and protect access to birth control, IVF, and other fertility care.

That is because at the heart of this fight there is something bigger  than politics. It is about freedom, the freedom to control our own  bodies. It is about the freedom to decide when, if, and how we grow our  families and the freedom to choose our own futures on our own terms.

We are the best people to make those decisions for ourselves. Mr.  Speaker, there are a lot of brilliant minds here in this legislative  Chamber and in State houses and in courts all across the country, but  women do not need them to be in our most intimate decisionmaking  moments. As a Representative of Ohio's 13th Congressional District, I  will keep standing up for our freedom, and I will keep working to  ensure our laws reflect our values.

We must trust women. We must protect our rights, and we must never  forget that democracy only works if we honor the will of the people.