Massive Cuts to Energy and Water Infrastructure


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694842/massive-cuts-to-energy-and-water-infrastructure


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise in opposition to the fiscal  year 2026 Energy and Water appropriations bill.

At a time when energy costs are skyrocketing for my constituents,  Republicans are trying to make it even harder for them to keep their  homes warm and keep the lights on. For example, this bill makes massive  cuts to the Department of Energy's Office of Energy Efficiency and  Renewable Energy, including a nearly $10 million cut to Ohio. That is a  44 percent cut.

Republican cuts to this office include cuts to the Weatherization  Assistance Program, which reduces energy costs by increasing the energy  efficiency of homes. These cuts are compounded by the fact that  ratepayers in Ohio are on the hook for a corrupt bill that adds  hundreds to energy costs to bail out a coal plant in Indiana. Ohioans  cannot afford any more Republican malfeasance that literally costs  Ohioans hundreds of dollars a year.

Even more, this bill does not adequately fund two authorities in my  district that were created under the Water Resources Development Act of  2024. The bipartisan Water Resources Development Act of 2024 authorized  projects across the United States for water and wastewater  infrastructure that are critical to strengthening the flood protection  and resiliency of our communities and to complete ecosystem restoration  that maintains America's vital natural resources.

This legislation specifically authorized $49 million in new  authorities in Ohio's 13th Congressional District to allow the Army  Corps of Engineers to contribute their expertise to the development of  new and existing infrastructure projects that not only improve water  and sewer infrastructure but also bolster our economic competitiveness.

I am proud to have advocated for these resources to ensure that they  were included in last year's WRDA. These programs allow communities in  my district to have access to the infrastructure they need to flourish.

Here is how: Under the Summit County new authority, $25 million would  have been authorized to fund projects such as Akron's water main and  lead service line replacement project, Fairlawn's West Market Street  waterline replacement, New Franklin's South Main Street stormwater  replacement project, Barberton's Stratford Street waterline project,  and Fairlawn's Rosemont Preserve project.

Additionally, under Stark County's new authority, $24 million would  have been authorized to fund projects such as Canton's Cromer Water  Storage Reservoir replacement project, improvements to the Ohio & Erie  Canalway Lock 4 Park, and North Lawrence's sanitary sewer project.

Funding these projects is crucial to ensure my constituents have  access to clean water in their homes. In order to truly make a  difference for these communities, we must fully fund the programs that  we authorize. For me, this is about my constituents and lowering their  costs and allowing our communities to thrive.

Because of aggressive gerrymandering in Ohio, people of Ohio's 13th  Congressional District paid taxes that never made it back to our  communities. These funds went to places like California, New York, and,  God forbid, Michigan. Here is just another example of snatching hard- earned constituents' dollars that they expected to be reinvested in  their community, only to be sent elsewhere to pay for billionaire tax  cuts or something else nefarious and nothing that anyone asked for.

I came to Congress to do right by my community. As I said earlier, I  am proud to have ensured that $49 million in new infrastructure  authorities were included to be funded in our community. However, this  work cannot get done if we do not appropriate the money to get the  shovels in the ground.

For this reason and many others, I urge my colleagues to oppose this  bill because it does not lower costs. It harms our communities.      Honoring Joshua Jarzab, Ohio's 13th District Champion of the Week

Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize Twinsburg  firefighter and local hero Joshua Jarzab as Ohio's 13th Congressional  District Champion of the Week.

On August 17, Joshua and his team responded to a call for a basement  fire. Joshua and his team acted swiftly, entering a burning home,  fighting back flames, and clearing a path to the basement.

Once underground, amidst thick smoke and scorching flames, Joshua and  his team conducted a methodical search and later found an 8-month-old  baby in the basement.

Even though the flames were high and strong, they continued searching  for this baby and ultimately rescued him. It took 12 minutes for Joshua  and his team from the Twinsburg Fire Department to ensure that they got  that baby out safe and sound.

I just say to Joshua and the entire Twinsburg fire safety services  team: There are people who run away from fire, but you-all ran toward  it. Not only did you run toward it in that situation, you run every day  that you are on call. In this particular moment, you saved a life, and  we are so grateful for you.

I thank Joshua, the Twinsburg Fire Department, and all of those who  protect and serve our communities.

I congratulate Joshua for being Ohio's 13th Congressional District  Champion of the Week.