Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Increasing Investor Opportunities Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Electric Supply Chain Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Interagency Coordination for Pipeline Reviews Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery; and for Other Purposes


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of my proposed  amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year  2026.

Ohio's 13th Congressional District has long been known as the Rubber  Capital of the World, and both of my amendments uphold that legacy by  investing in American manufacturing to ensure this vital industry  remains globally competitive in the United States.

Drawing from the Retreaded Tire Jobs, Supply Chain Security and  Sustainability Act of 2025, this amendment would ensure that the U.S.  Government uses retreaded tires wherever possible rather than using  cheap foreign imported tires.

This amendment would support more than just my neighbors in Ohio's  13th Congressional District, as retreaded tires make up the largest  remanufacturing sector in the United States while employing over 51,000  American workers. This commonsense amendment is good for both the  economy, the environment, and the United States Government while  protecting good-paying manufacturing jobs right here in the United  States.

Ohio's 13th Congressional District has long been a trailblazer in  polymer science and polymer engineering. Akron's polymer manufacturing  ecosystem provides a local pipeline from education and training to the  workforce.

To build on Akron's generations of success, my second amendment  requires the Secretary of Defense to establish an initiative to  accelerate the research and development of innovative and sustainable  polymer processing and manufacturing to support next generation  technologies built on a resilient polymer supply chain.

This amendment will support the incredible work of partners like the  Akron Sustainable Polymer Tech Hub that is performing groundbreaking  research and development that can revolutionize industries across the  country and around the world.

Further, it will ensure northeast Ohio remains a global leader in  polymer science and polymer engineering, reaffirming our district's  legacy as the Rubber Capital of the World. From sustainable tires to  sustainable polymers, the next generation of rubber and plastics  production will proudly be made in Ohio in our 13th Congressional  District.

Additionally, I have submitted three additional amendments to create  jobs, lower costs, and protect our national  security in American innovation and manufacturing.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the  gentlewoman from Ohio (Mrs. Sykes) on the success of her amendments in  the legislation. The National Defense Authorization Act is something  that I am proud to work on year-round on the Armed Services Committee.

I give a lot of credit to Ranking Member Adam Smith, Chair   Mike  Rogers, and the members of the House Armed Services Committee for  working together in very much a bipartisan fashion to make sure that  American citizens are protected, not just here in America, but that our  troops have the resources they need around the world to protect  themselves so that we can be free here in the United States of America.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

I also applaud the idea of innovation and research, which we should  be doing in our military, but we should also be doing the same in every  aspect of our economy.

That is why it is so disturbing that Republicans continue to want to  look backward rather than forward with regard to our energy future.  They refuse to engage, invest in, and celebrate the innovation that is  going on with regard to renewable energy and how they are indeed the  cheapest forms of energy.

Mr. Speaker, I seek unanimous consent to enter into the Record an  article from June 17, 2025, in Scientific American, titled: ``Wind and  Solar Energy Are Cheaper Than Electricity from Fossil-Fuel Plants. Even  without subsidies, renewable energy is staying competitive. . . .''