Providing for Consideration of H.R. Student Compensation and Opportunity Through Rights and Endorsements Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial Contributions to Education Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Responsible Oversight to Eliminate Communist Teachings for Our Kids Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Small Business Regulatory Reduction Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Destroying Unnecessary, Misaligned, and Prohibitive Red Tape Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697301/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-student-compensation-and-opportunity-through-rights-and-endorsements-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-combating-the-lies-of-authoritarians-in-school-systems-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-transparency-in-reporting-of-adversarial-contributions-to-education-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-promoting-responsible-oversight-to-eliminate-communist-teachings-for-our-kids-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-small-business-regulatory-reduction-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-destroying-unnecessary-misaligned-and-prohibitive-red-tape-act


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in opposition to the rule and  H.R. 4312, the SCORE Act.

This legislation fails to address the rights of students to advocate  for themselves, and that is why I introduced an amendment to allow for  students to collectively bargain.

As a former gymnast and athlete, my allegiance will always be with  athletes and with the underdog. It is undeniable that student athletes  are not receiving equitable compensation for their labor, especially  those in high-revenue sports. A student athlete constantly endangers  themselves and risks great harm to their bodies for the entertainment  of the masses, all while juggling classes, practice, and potentially a  part-time job just to survive.

Their natural talents allow for universities to recruit on and off  the field and raise money all while the actual revenue generators are  left in the cold.

This issue was already addressed in the courts, and one thing that  remains clear is the NCAA has been profiting off college students'  labor and the students have not. For decades, students have not been  paid for their participation in what is clearly a billion-dollar  industry. This is not right.

Currently, the SCORE Act has not laid out an equitable revenue  sharing model and leaves it wholly up to the interpretation of the  school. Further, passing the SCORE Act as it stands would only  eliminate students' ability to collectively bargain. That is why I  introduced an amendment in the Rules Committee to strike the language  from the bill and allow students to be properly compensated for their  labor.

I thank my colleagues on the Democratic side for offering the  amendment, but, unfortunately, the amendment failed on a party-line  vote and was rejected by the Republicans.

Without my amendment, players at schools in my district, basketball  players specifically, would not have the means of recourse to negotiate  compensation and would be forced to simply shut up and dribble.

I understand that the needs of a Big 10 school are different from  those in the MAC or the SWAC, and without the ability to collectively  bargain, these athletes cannot negotiate with the university for their  specific needs no matter the size of the program.

For those reasons and more, I am in opposition to the rule and the  bill, and I encourage my colleagues to get back to the drawing board  and do something that actually works for student athletes and allows  them to be paid equitably and fairly and collectively bargain.