Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in opposition of H.J. Res. 61,  which would nullify an Environmental Protection Agency rule to  significantly reduce the unregulated toxic chemicals from tire  manufacturing facilities, facilities that my community is all too  familiar with.

In 1839, Charles Goodyear invented vulcanized rubber, revolutionizing  the way that the world travels. Decades later, the Goodyear Tire and  Rubber Company was founded and headquartered in Akron, Ohio, my  hometown, in Ohio's 13th Congressional District.

For many years, the city of Akron, which I proudly represent, has  been nicknamed the Rubber Capital of the World due to its long history  of rubber and tire manufacturing. This industry has provided decades  of local jobs, economic development, and financial stability to  countless families in Akron and the surrounding area.

Without rubber manufacturing, Akron would not be what it is today. In  fact, Mr. Speaker, my family fled the segregated South to find jobs in  these rubber factories, in the Firestone plant, and I stand here before  you a proud graduate of the Harvey S. Firestone High School, the  founder of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company.

Yes, we are proud in the city of Akron to honor the legacy of rubber  workers in my district. As the centerpiece of downtown Akron's Main  Street corridor, you can find a statue of a rubber factory worker  standing tall in commemoration of their contributions to our community  that is 200 years old this year. Unfortunately, a generation later, we  know now that the stories of far too many rubber workers and families  included cancer, asthma, and other respiratory illnesses. Decades  without adequate regulation of toxic emissions from these plants have  taken a serious toll on the Akron community. Studies from the 1980s  found increased risk of leukemia among rubber plant workers in Akron  and respiratory illnesses in children nearby rubber plants. Goodyear's  St. Marys, Ohio, rubber plant vented carcinogenic vinyl chloride into  the environment in close proximity to a Boy Scout camp, and an Akron  plant vented dust contaminated with asbestos into surrounding  neighborhoods.

It should be no surprise that asthma and cancer remain challenges for  my community. In 2019, the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America  designated Akron as an asthma capital alongside it being the rubber  capital, and ranked the city 14th in the list of the top 100 most  challenging places in America to live with asthma.

Thankfully, in 2024, Akron moved further down the list to 52, but we  would obviously prefer not to be on that list at all. Studies have also  shown that neighborhoods in southern Akron, like Summit Lake and  Kenmore, continue to pose lifetime cancer risk from industrial  pollution that is nearly twice the EPA's acceptable levels.

Unfortunately, everyone in Akron has a friend or a family member with  a cancer story. Too often, these stories involve working in rubber or  being too close to a plant.

The EPA rule that is the subject of this joint resolution estimates  that compliance with the rule will cost these multimillion dollar  corporations no greater than 1 percent of their annual revenue. Yes, I  know that can still be a lot of money, but to argue that these costs  are too great when the alternative is communities plagued with years of  increased cancer and asthma, as they are in my community, is just plain  insulting.

To be clear, I know the importance of the rubber industry to my  community. It is the reason why I stand here today. It is, quite  literally, why I get the opportunity to stand here today. I appreciate  rubber workers in Akron who helped make our city the rubber capital and  revolutionized the way in which we travel.

Mr. Speaker, we also built the best middle class that this country  has ever seen, but we cannot repeat history and continue to expose our  communities and our rubber workers to these toxic chemicals. This  resolution poses a danger to the public health of our communities  across the country.

Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, with Americans looking at a reduction in  critical healthcare services from the recently passed Republican  budget, including cuts to the Medicaid program that children with  asthma will need to access, this resolution could not come at a worse  time.

This is not hyperbole, and I hear my colleagues when they say on the  other side of the aisle that this may be problematic. I ask them to  hear me, standing on behalf of 786,000 people from the city of Akron,  representing northeast Ohio, a great-granddaughter of a rubber factory  worker, who knows what it is like to lose a friend because of cancer  due to some of these toxic chemicals: I don't want the same for my  colleagues' communities.

Mr. Speaker, I ask them to learn from our mistakes, and I ask my  colleagues in Congress to join me in opposition to this resolution.