Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702091/reliable-federal-infrastructure-act


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the illustrious gentleman from New  Jersey for yielding some time today.

I rise in opposition to H.R. 4690, the Reliable Federal  Infrastructure Act.

While Americans across the Nation are struggling to pay for gas,  groceries,  housing, and healthcare, my colleagues across the aisle believe the  most pressing matter for the American people is phasing out clean  energy standards for new and renovated Federal buildings. These  standards, which were passed with overwhelming bipartisan support  during the Bush administration, are not what is creating the  affordability crisis. In fact, in 2024, the Energy Department  determined that section 433 of the Energy Independence and Security  Act, the very section that this bill would eliminate, reduces  infrastructure costs and saves taxpayer dollars.

My colleagues across the aisle don't care about energy efficiency  standards, and they don't care about my constituents, who are currently  paying $4 a gallon for gas, as we speak, and I am from Ohio, not  California. If they actually did care about my constituents or the  American public, they would shift their focus toward the real reason  that costs are going up: Trump's tariffs and Trump's war in Iran.

Since the Strait of Hormuz closed, gas prices for Americans are up  more than 30 percent. Democrats in Congress have tried to conduct  oversight on this war, but Republicans have blocked us every step of  the way. Now is not the time to burden taxpayers, including increasing  death and injury to our brave servicemen and -women and burdening our  taxpayers with higher infrastructure costs because of Trump's war.

For this reason, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to  recommit this bill back to committee. If the House rules permitted, I  would have offered the motion with an important amendment to this bill.  My amendment would prevent the bill from taking effect until the  Secretary publishes a certification that the war in Iran has not  increased energy and gas prices in the United States. Although, even if  he were to do that, it would show us that the war in Iran is increasing  gas prices in the United States, so I am pretty confident that you  would not have accepted it either way.

Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in voting  for the motion to recommit.

Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.

Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.