Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689366/womens-history-month


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today I rise during the first Bipartisan  Women's Caucus of the year to stand in solidarity with my colleagues in  this historic caucus as we continue the work to break ground on a  Women's History Museum on Washington's National Mall.

I would like to thank my colleague and cochair, Representative Monica  De La Cruz for organizing this Special Order hour. I would also like to  thank the vice chairs of the Bipartisan Women's Caucus, Janelle Bynum  and Representative Nicole Malliotakis; specifically Representative  Malliotakis for her leadership in transforming the National Women's  History Museum from a dream into a real possibility.

Women across the country have shaped and molded this society with  their contributions being an integral part of the fabric of who we are,  and their efforts, our efforts, and work should be recognized.

The fact that we are here today to celebrate the possibility of a  Women's History Museum is incredible. First, it is incredible because  why has it taken it so long, and, second, because it is time to  recognize the contributions of women in this country.

Of course, the women from Ohio who are the heart of it all will  certainly be very much previewed and modelled in this museum, women  like Dorothy Dandridge, Nikki Giovanni, Annie Oakley, Florence Allen,  Gloria Steinem, Toni Morrison, and, of course, Ohio's 13th Judy  Resnick.

The process of including people from a range of backgrounds,  including women, is why this history museum dedicated to women that  celebrates our achievements and condemns marginalization is not only  special but very much needed.

At the founding of this country, women didn't have the same rights as  men, but women worked and labored for our place in this society. We  couldn't vote. We couldn't buy land, and we couldn't even open bank  accounts until about 50 years ago. Societal norms dictated that women  were to be devalued and minimized, and it made it easy to overlook and  dismiss us.

In spite of this, women have played many important roles in our  country, even though they were overlooked, undermined, and in some  cases rewritten, even if we were written at all.

When we as women expect to be overlooked and dismissed, it makes it  easier for us just to not try at all, not to strive and dream for more,  to stay in a lane that society has set for us.

Mr. Speaker, we have so many representations of women who have  decided ``no.'' Like our Vice President says, we just eat ``no'' for  breakfast.

Representation matters. The fact that young girls and boys will soon  be able to see the contributions of women and value those contributions  will let them know that they can and should dream big.

On this final day of Women's History Month, I would be remiss if I  did not address the elephant in the room. No, it is not my Republican  colleagues. It is the attack on diversity, equity, and inclusion.  Including a National Women's History Museum on The National Mall in  Washington would ensure that we are including everyone--women, those  with disabilities, and women of color--into our national fabric and  that we are not forgetting that their contributions are important to  this country. They should not be forgotten because we are a part of  this country and our history.

The Women's History Museum will archive the vast achievements of  women and establish Americans' commitment to a diverse, equitable, and  inclusive telling of our Nation's history so that young girls and boys  from across the country and around the world continue to strive for  greatness, knowing that their dreams are always possible in the United  States of America.

Ms. De La CRUZ.  Malliotakis).