Adam Schiff Admits Impeachment Is About the 2020 Election


On Wednesday, while the American people were lectured and President Trump was attacked all afternoon and late into the evening, Democratic House Manager Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) reminded us all about the real reason behind the House's impeachment inquiry: the upcoming 2020 presidential election, and undoing the results of the 2016 election.

During the Schiff-show, he said:

"The President's misconduct cannot be decided at the ballot box. For we cannot be assured that the vote will be fairly won."

For those paying attention at home - this is nothing new. House Democrats have said all along that impeaching President Trump is about the upcoming 2020 presidential election:

On ABC's "This Week' Speaker Nancy Pelosi showed her cards, saying:

"Let's be optimistic about the future - a future that will not have Donald Trump in the White House. One way or another, 10 months from now, we will have an election if we don't have him removed sooner. But again, he will be impeached forever."

Rep. Al Green (D-Texas), who has called for President Trump's impeachment since 2017, said:

"I'm concerned if we don't impeach this President, he will get re-elected."

Democratic House Manager Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.) also accused President Trump on CNN's "State of the Union,' of attempting to "rig' the 2020 election:

"There's a sense of urgency, because he will do anything [...] judging from his past conduct, that he can to get interference and to rig the next election, which is why we must act to safeguard the integrity of our democracy."

Flashback to Rep. Nadler during the Clinton impeachment, who warned against an impeachment focused on undoing the results of an election, saying:

"The effect of impeachment is to overturn the popular will of the voters as expressed in a national election. We must not overturn an election and remove a president from office [...]

"There must never be a narrowly voted impeachment or an impeachment substantially supported by one of our major political parties and largely opposed by the other. Such an impeachment would lack legitimacy, would produce divisiveness and bitterness in our politics for years to come. And will call into question the very legitimacy of our political institutions."

As Sen. Cruz, chairman of the Subcommittee on The Constitution, has repeatedly reminded the American people, these Articles of Impeachment are about undoing the election results of 2016, and the upcoming 2020 presidential election. Nothing more, nothing less.

"This is a partisan sham because they're mad - the House Democrats - are mad at the American people for electing President Trump. And that's why the result of this is going to be rejecting the Articles of Impeachment."