Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, today is Texas Independence Day. One  hundred eighty-four years ago today, Texans declared our independence-- declared our independence from Mexico and fired a shot for liberty that  was heard around the world. 

  As I have a number of years in the past, I am going to read the  letter from the Alamo that LTC William Barret Travis wrote calling for  help. It is a letter that energized the Texans across our great State,  that energized lovers of liberty. It is also a letter that I read the  very first time I spoke on this Senate floor, and these are words to  inspire everyone.  

       Commandancy of the Alamo 

       Bejar, Feby. 24th, 1836 

       To the People of Texas & All Americans in the World-- 

       Fellow Citizens & compatriots-- 

       I am besieged, by a thousand or more of the Mexicans under       Santa Anna--I have sustained a continual Bombardment &       cannonade for 24 hours & have not lost a man. The enemy has       demanded a surrender at discretion, otherwise the garrison       are to be put to the sword, if the fort is taken--I have       answered the demand with a cannon shot, & and our flag still       waves proudly from the walls. I shall never surrender or       retreat. Then, I call on you in the name of Liberty, of       patriotism & everything dear to the American character, to       come to our aid, with all dispatch--The enemy is receiving       reinforcements daily & will no doubt increase to three or       four thousand in four or five days. If this call is       neglected, I am determined to sustain myself as long as       possible & die like a soldier who never forgets what is due       to his own honor & that of his country--Victory or Death. 

       William Barrett Travis, Lt. Col. Comdt. 

       P.S. The Lord is on our side--When the enemy appeared in       sight we had not three bushels of corn--We have since found       in deserted houses 80 or 90 bushels & got into the walls 20       or 30 head of Beeves. 

       Travis  

  The brave men and women of the Alamo gave their lives for liberty.  But shortly thereafter, in the Battle of San Jacinto, the Texans were  victorious, and the Republic of Texas was formed, an independent nation  from 1836 to 1845. For 9 years, we were our own nation. Then Texas  joined the United States of America. We are proud Americans, but we are  proud of the history of the brave Texans. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT