Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688519/coast-guard-authorization-act-of-2025


Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, the U.S. Coast Guard is essential to  protecting our Nation's maritime borders from threats like illegal  drugs, illegal immigration, and transnational crime. The Coast Guard  saves American lives and ensures that commerce flows smoothly at our  ports.

The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025 is bipartisan legislation  that Senator Cantwell and I negotiated and agreed to with House  Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Sam Graves and Ranking  Member Rick Larsen.

It authorizes funding to bolster the Coast Guard's critical missions  for border security, facilitating maritime commerce, and enforcing the  rule of law in domestic and international waters.

I want to draw attention to several key provisions in this bill. Last  year, the Coast Guard seized over 106 metric tons of cocaine.  Unfortunately, cartels are now using technology like miniature remote  control drone ships to  smuggle drugs across our maritime border.

Without this legislation, the Coast Guard would remain unable to  prosecute criminals who are using these remote control autonomous  vessels.

The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025 also expands the Coast  Guard's and Customs and Border Protection's use of cutting-edge tools,  like tactical maritime surveillance systems, which are blimp-based  radar systems to find and interdict drug runners, poachers, and human  traffickers at the Texas-Mexico border in the Gulf of America, in San  Diego, in Key West, and San Juan, Puerto Rico.

I ask my colleagues to stand with me and support President Trump's  vision of protecting our borders from drugs and illegal immigrants and  of building ships to revitalize the Coast Guard's fleet. And I urge my  colleagues to support the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025.

With that, I yield to my colleague Senator Cantwell.

Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I thank Senator Cantwell and her staff for  their hard work on this bill. I also want to thank my staff on the  committee as well who have put in many hours. This bill is important to  the men and women of the Coast Guard and is important to our national  security.

524 and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration.

Mr. CRUZ.