Democrats Have Declared War on America's Blue-Collar Boom


U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) and the rest of the Democratic Party have officially declared war on America's booming, blue-collar economy.

How, you may ask?

Both Sen. Sanders and Rep. Ocasio-Cortez have officially introduced bills that ban all fracking.

What you may not know, is that fracking has resulted in cleaner energy alternatives and lower carbon emissions.

Typically, politicians promise to create new jobs and grow the economy. Not Sen. Sanders and Rep. Ocasio-Cortez. They're promising the opposite by banning fracking, which, according to the Chamber of Commerce, would eliminate up to 14 million jobs, increase household energy costs by billions, and cost the U.S. economy trillions.

As U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) has repeatedly explained:

"Fracking has become demonized. But fracking unlocked massive shale deposits of both natural gas and oils. Totally transformed the geo-political world. And in particular has resulted in an incredible shift from coal powered production to natural gas-powered production.

"Nothing -- no socialist regulator, no Paris deal -- nothing has had anywhere close to having an impact on carbon emissions as has a Texas oil man innovating fracking and moving away from coal to natural gas. I think that's how we should address the environment through innovation that also produces jobs."

And we all know the radical left is not stopping there. Democrats have also called for the total elimination of fossil fuels in their Green New Deal, which could cost up to $93 trillion over 10 years, or over $60,000 per household per year.

It's no wonder Americans are growing increasingly concerned. As one voter said of the Democrats' radical agenda:

"The whole ideology would be destructive to the country. It's anti-growth, it's anti-family, anti-American."

Watch Sen. Cruz's full interview at Texas Tribune Festival here. Learn more about Sen. Cruz's efforts to remove regulatory barriers that stand in the way of clean energy such as natural gas, including introducing the American Energy Renaissance Act (AERA) and the Natural Gas Export Expansion Act.