Democrats Deny Biden Corruption


Today, House Managers Reps. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.) continued to lecture the American people and attack President Trump for fulfilling his responsibility to investigate American corruption in a foreign country.

Last night, Rep. Nadler said:

"Can you believe that he was concerned with corruption and only knew about one company when there are hundreds of thousands that were accused of corruption?"

Really? Burisma wasn't just any company:

It was one of the largest natural gas companies in Ukraine.The son of the then-Vice President was paid $83,000/month to serve on the company's board of directors, despite the fact that he had zero experience in oil and gas.As Sen. Cruz said on Meet the Press, "Any president, any administration is justified in investigating corruption. And there was serious evidence of real corruption concerning Hunter Biden on the board of Burisma [...]. You know how much Hunter Biden was paid every month, $83,000. That's a million dollars a year."The company's board included another prominent American, Devon Archer, who was an adviser to John Kerry and convicted of securities fraud in 2018.And today, Rep. Schiff denied the idea that corruption existed altogether:

"President Trump's objective was not to encourage a foreign government to investigate legitimate allegations of misconduct or wrongdoing abroad, made clear by the fact that the investigations he wanted announced have been discredited entirely."

Not so fast, House Managers. Have you checked with the Obama White House about that?

As the White House's trial brief explained:

"Within the Obama Administration, Hunter's position caused the special envoy for energy policy, Amos Hochstein, to "raise[] the matter with Biden.' Deputy Assistant Secretary Kent testified that he, too, voiced concerns with Vice President Biden's Office."

Indeed, Chris Heinz, the step-son of then-Secretary of State John Kerry, broke his business relationship with Hunter because of his "lack of judgment" in joining the Burisma board.

Even the left-leaning Washington Post acknowledged the appearance of corruption:

"The appointment of the vice president's son to a Ukrainian oil board looks nepotistic at best, nefarious at worst."

Can you blame them? Look at what Biden recalled from his time as Vice President on January 23, 2018, at the Council on Foreign Relations, when he bragged about getting the prosecutor investigating Burisma fired:

"And that is I'm desperately concerned about the backsliding on the part of Kiev in terms of corruption. They made-I mean, I'll give you one concrete example. I was-not I, but it just happened to be that was the assignment I got. I got all the good ones. And so I got Ukraine. And I remember going over, convincing our team, our leaders to-convincing that we should be providing for loan guarantees. And I went over, I guess, the 12th, 13th time to Kiev. And I was supposed to announce that there was another billion-dollar loan guarantee. And I had gotten a commitment from Poroshenko and from Yatsenyuk that they would take action against the state prosecutor. And they didn't.

"So they said they had-they were walking out to a press conference. I said, nah, I'm not going to-or, we're not going to give you the billion dollars. They said, you have no authority. You're not the president. The president said-I said, call him. (Laughter.) I said, I'm telling you, you're not getting the billion dollars. I said, you're not getting the billion. I'm going to be leaving here in, I think it was about six hours. I looked at them and said: I'm leaving in six hours. If the prosecutor is not fired, you're not getting the money. Well, son of a bitch. (Laughter.) He got fired. And they put in place someone who was solid at the time."