Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I rise at a time of crisis. For several  months now, our Nation has been dealing with two simultaneous crises: a  global health pandemic that has claimed the lives of over 100,000  Americans, over 300,000 people across the globe, and an economic crisis  that has cost over 40 million Americans their jobs. 

  And in the midst of these two crises, we are now faced with yet  another crisis: a crisis of anger, a crisis of racial division, flames  that are pulling this country apart. 

  This crisis was precipitated by the wrongful death of George Floyd in  Minneapolis, MN. At this point, most, if not all, of us have seen that  horrifying video: Mr. Floyd, in handcuffs, facedown on the pavement,  incapacitated, not posing a threat to anyone, and a police officer with  his knee on the neck of Mr. Floyd, pressing down hard on the neck of  Mr. Floyd and keeping that knee there for 8 long minutes. 

  Mr. Floyd begs the officer, pleads with the officer, says he can't  breathe. He is in obvious and serious physical distress. Other officers  are standing there, watching a defenseless, handcuffed man, pinned to  the ground for 8 long minutes, with a knee pressing down on his neck. 

  As we all know, those actions took the life of Mr. Floyd, and,  rightly, following what happened, the U.S. Department of Justice opened  a civil rights investigation into the police officers' conduct. Also  rightly, I believe, the local prosecutor opened--began--a criminal  prosecution, a homicide prosecution, against the officer for his  conduct. 

  Now, anytime you have an officer-involved shooting, it is easy for  people to let rhetoric get carried away. It is easy to jump to  conclusions. And too many players in the political world, I think,  quickly move to demonize the police officer and assume the officer is  wrong in every circumstance. That is not how responsible leaders, that  is not how responsible Americans should behave. We should wait to see  what the facts and circumstances are. 

  But here we have a video, and we can see what the facts and  circumstances are, and there are zero legitimate law enforcement  justifications for what happened to George Floyd--none. We witnessed  police brutality and abuse of power, and that is why the officers are  being prosecuted. 

  Those should be propositions that bring all of us together. Watching  the death of Mr. Floyd, for so many Americans, brought forth the long  history in this country of racial discrimination, a history that began  with centuries of slavery in America, a history that has seen Jim Crow  laws, that has seen the Ku Klux Klan, that has seen overt and also  implicit discrimination. 

  Young African Americans too often fear interactions with law  enforcement, fear that their rights will not be protected. Our Nation's  journey toward civil rights has had many troubled stops along the way,  but I, for one, agree with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., that the arc of  history bends toward justice. I also agree with the vision that Dr.  King put forth standing on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, to an  assembled crowd and an assembled protest, that he wanted to live in a  nation where we would be judged--all of us would be judged not by the  color of our skin but by the content of our character. 

  That is a vision that has animated America on our journey toward  justice, and outrage at what happened to George Floyd prompted  Americans across this country to speak out, to exercise their First  Amendment right to speak out for racial justice, to speak out against  police brutality, to speak out against abuse of power. All of that is  legitimate. All of that is protected by the Constitution. 

  But then we saw things take an ominous turn, a dangerous turn. What,  for some, was legitimate First Amendment speech, speaking out for  justice, became co-opted, became taken over by violent criminal  radicals. 

  Now, let's be clear because so much of the news media does not like  clarity in this regard. When I say that, I am not saying that everybody  speaking is a violent criminal radical. Indeed, there are a great many  people speaking out whose heart cries for justice, cries for the  justice that has been the many-centuries-long journey of this country. 

  But there are radicals who cynically took advantage of these protests  to sow division, to sow fear, to engage in murder, to engage in violent  assaults, to engage in looting, to engage in theft, to engage in  intimidation, to engage in fear. 

  The First Amendment protects your right to speak; the First Amendment  protects your right to peaceably protest; but none of us has a right to  violently assault another person. None of us has a right to murder  another person. None of us has a right to burn the cars of police  officers, to shatter the shop windows of shops throughout this country,  to engage in acts of terror, threatening the lives of our fellow  Americans. 

  To those radicals who cynically tried to co-opt these protests, I  will say their actions were profoundly racist because they were making  a decision to take what should have been a unifying moment to say this  will not stand in our Nation. Our law protects everyone, regardless of  the color of their skin. Every American--African American, Hispanic,  White, Asian American--it doesn't matter; our laws protect everyone.  That should have been a unifying moment, and the cynical, violent,  radical criminals decided to co-opt these protests to turn them into,  in far too many instances, riots--violent riots, terrorizing their  fellow citizens. 

  George Floyd was a native Houstonian--my hometown. I love the city of  Houston. George Floyd was active in his church in Houston. Next week,  Mr. Floyd will be coming back to Houston for the last time to be buried  in Houston. I am proud that last night, in the city of Houston,  thousands came out to protest, and there wasn't violence last night;  that the people of Houston demonstrated that you can speak, you can  speak for racial justice, you can speak out against brutality without  engaging in violence. 

  But there has been too much violence across the country and, sadly,  too many politicians who are complicit in violence, who have made the  political judgment to turn a blind eye to rioters, to thugs, to  murderers, to those terrorizing communities. 

  The riots must stop. The violence must stop. The first responsibility  of government is to keep people safe. Right now, in too many of our  cities, government is failing in that task. 

  Across the country, we see the lives which have been taken. To date,  6 U.S. States and 13 U.S. cities have declared a state of emergency  because of the riots they are facing. Chicago police superintendent  David Brown said that over the weekend, 132 police officers were  injured, there were 48 shootings, and 699 arrests. 

  In Las Vegas on Monday night, rioters shot a police officer who is  right now on life support. Over the past 3 days, Las Vegas police  officers have arrested 338 rioters.  

  In St. Louis, four police officers were shot on Monday night.  Fortunately, their wounds appear not to be life-threatening, but a  beloved retired police captain, David Dorn, was shot and killed by  looters at a pawn shop that same night. 

  Mr. Dorn joined the St. Louis police force in 1969. He was a  dedicated law enforcement officer for nearly 40 years. His wife and the  St. Louis community are grieving his loss. Mr. Dorn was also African  American. 

  The phrase ``Black lives matter'' has become fraught with politics.  It is absolutely true that Black lives matter. We should be horrified  at what happened to George Floyd, but we should also be horrified at  what happened to David Dorn. To those with political agendas seeking  demagogue that tear this country apart, somehow David Dorn--another  Black man, a different  Black man--who doesn't fit the political story they are trying to tell,  disappears from their narrative. 

  It has become politically controversial to make a statement that  every life matters. How far have we gone? Our country was founded on  that proposition. The Declaration of Independence tells us we hold  these truths to be self-evident that all men--not some men, not just  White men or White women, but all men--of every race, of every creed,  of every religion--are created equal and are endowed by their Creator  with certain unalienable rights that, among them, are the right to  life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 

  Now, our country has not always delivered on that promise for every  American, but that is the journey we have traveled toward that vision. 

  David Dorn's life matters. For every reporter fanning up division who  doesn't stop to honor David Dorn, shame on you. His life mattered, and  he didn't need to be murdered by violent looters exploiting the  tensions and division. 

  In protests Monday night in Buffalo, NY, three police officers were  run over by a car, breaking a leg and shattering the pelvis of one of  the officers. 

  In New York City, almost 2,000 people have been arrested since the  rioting started, and 700 people were arrested just on Monday night. At  least two New York City police officers were hit by cars on Monday and  nearly 50 New York Police Department officers have been injured since  the protests began. 

  In Salt Lake City, 21 police officers were injured over the weekend,  including an officer who was hit in the head with a bat. 

  On Sunday, during the riot that took place outside the White House  when the historic St. John's Church was burned, when arsonists burned  the church, 14 Secret Service agents were injured. 

  In San Francisco over the weekend, at least 20 fires were set, 33  people were arrested for looting, and 2 police officers were attacked. 

  On Friday night, David Patrick Underwood, an officer in the  Department of Homeland Security, was shot and killed during protests in  Oakland, CA. 

  David Patrick Underwood, like David Dorn, was African American.  George Floyd's life matters. So does David Dorn's. So does David  Patrick Underwood's. No elected leader should sit idly by while David  Patrick Underwood or David Dorn or George Floyd is murdered. If Black  lives matter, then all Black lives matter, not just those which are  politically convenient for politicians. 

  It has been reported that at least 25 cities in the United States  have seen deadly, destructive riots in the last week. According to the  Claims Journal, which reports and analyzes the property claims  industry, 75 businesses in Madison, WI, have been looted; 50 businesses  in Seattle; 50 businesses in Pittsburgh; and 45 properties in Chicago  have suffered damages. In New York City, iconic stores up and down  Broadway and Fifth Avenue have been vandalized and looted. 

  In Atlanta, everything from big-box stores to small businesses have  been destroyed, looted, and damaged. In Atlanta, a Black-owned small  business, a clothing store, was completely looted in the wee hours of a  Saturday morning. To store owner Kris Shelby, the loss was devastating. 

  Mr. Shelby told the New York Times that ``as a black man, and this is  a black-owned business, it's just sad.'' Looting and destroying Mr.  Shelby's business does not further the cause of racial justice. It is  the act of a cynical, violent thief and a thief willing to be a bigoted  racist on top of it. 

  In Philadelphia over the weekend, nearly 250 businesses were  burglarized, over 375 fires set ablaze. Pause and think about that  number. One city, Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love--370 fires. 

  This is wrong. This is shocking. This is horrifying. You are not  exercising your First Amendment rights when you are lighting a police  car on fire. You are not exercising any constitutional rights when you  are burning and terrorizing and assaulting your fellow citizens.  Eighteen law enforcement officers were injured in Philadelphia--some  hit by Molotov cocktails, others by rocks and bricks. Ross Martinson,  the owner of a small business called the Philadelphia Runner, told the  Philadelphia Enquirer: ``What is left is mush'' after rioters attempted  to light three fires in his store, stole clothes, stole shoes, smashed  the windows, and left the store flooding from the sprinklers. 

  In Los Angeles, the rioting and looting has brought back painful  memories of the 1992 Rodney King riots that resulted in 50 deaths,  thousands of arrests, and the destruction of over 1,000 businesses and  buildings. 

  One Santa Monica furniture store, the owner named Roman, told the  L.A. Times that over the weekend, ``we lost everything in 10 minutes.''  Roman said that 10 minutes of looting resulted in $6 million in  damages. 

  Mind you, all of this is happening after months of small businesses  being on the verge of bankruptcy from the coronavirus pandemic and the  economic catastrophe we are facing. 

  Now we have local politicians saying: We are not going to let police  officers protect your store. We are not going to let police officers  protect your livelihood. Everything you own can be taken and destroyed  by violent criminals. 

  In New York, according to ABC7 New York, businesses, such as delis,  pharmacies, beauty supply stores, were destroyed and multiple fires set  in Fordham in the Bronx on Monday, while the flagship Macy's store and  scores of other retail stories were burglarized, looted, damaged, in  downtown Manhattan over the weekend and Monday. And throughout it all,  New York police department officers are calling for the politicians to  take the handcuffs off them, to let them actually protect their city  and protect their fellow citizens. But too many politicians have a  different agenda. 

  If you are not willing to say that what happened to George Floyd was  wrong, it was unacceptable, it was criminal, then you should get the  hell out of public office. But if you are also not willing to say that  what has happened to these store owners, what has happened to these  police officers--the stores that have been looted, the officers who  have been murdered and assaulted--if you are not willing to say that is  wrong, it is criminal, it is unacceptable, and it must stop, then you  need to get the hell out of public office. This ain't complicated.  Protect people's lives. Protect their rights. 

  In Minneapolis, where George Floyd was killed, Tiwana Jackson, an  African-American small business owner with an eyelash extension studio,  told a Business of Fashion reporter that her store had been looted and  vandalized during the riots. Tiwana said: ``Burning stores down,  stealing things--how is that going to get justice for George Floyd?'' 

  She continued: ``It almost took my focus away on why this whole thing  started in the first place, which was racism.'' 

  In Richmond, VA, David Waller saw the jewelry store that he runs-- that his grandfather founded in the year 1900--ransacked by rioters  over the weekend. Waller and Company is one of the oldest Black-owned  businesses in Richmond. How is that justice? 

  In Washington, DC, not only was the historic St. John's Church  burned--where every President we have had has worshipped--but the  Lincoln Memorial was vandalized, as well as the World War II Memorial  was vandalized, and the Victims of Communism Memorial was vandalized.  That is not standing up for justice. 

  The Lincoln Memorial--Abraham Lincoln led this Nation during the  bloodiest war we have ever encountered, the Civil War. Six hundred  thousand Americans died in the Civil War. And Abraham Lincoln's vision,  restoring this country and ending the abomination of slavery--I have to  say, the Lincoln Memorial is my favorite place in all of Washington to  go and stand and read the words etched in stone, to read the Gettysburg  Address, to read the second inaugural of the President who signed the  Emancipation Proclamation, the President whose leadership through that  Civil War, whose leadership to end slavery cost him his life at the  hands of an assassin. Yet vandals defaced it. 

  The U.S. Park Police reported that the protests on the National Mall  and at Lafayette Park across the street from the White House resulted  in 51 injured U.S. Park Police officers. Eleven of those injured  officers had to go to  the hospital for treatment, and three had to be admitted because of  their injuries. 

  In my home State of Texas, we have seen riots in Austin, San Antonio,  Dallas, and Houston, my hometown--the hometown of George Floyd. In  Austin, over the weekend, protesters tried to block a highway and  destroyed multiple businesses, including a gas station, a Food Mart, a  hotel, a Target, a Foot Locker, and other stores and businesses. 

  In Houston, another group of protesters closed down Highway 59, and  rioters destroyed businesses and injured police officers. 

  This must stop. There are a host of tools that can be used to stop  it. The first lines of defense when it comes to violent crime are the  brave men and women of our police departments who are risking their  lives every night as they engage with rioters and violent criminals. 

  Just as it is a slander to say that every protester is a violent  rioter, it is also a slander--an absolute vicious lie--to paint every  police officer as a racist, to paint every police officer as someone  who commits abuse of power and police brutality, as we saw with George  Floyd. 

  Yes, there are some who break the law, and that is why the officers  are being prosecuted. The rule of law extends to everyone. If a police  officer breaks the law, he or she should be prosecuted. But when we are  looking to protect our own families, when we are looking to protect our  spouse, when we are looking to protect our children--the people we call  on to be our first line of defense are the men and women in blue. 

  Local officials who have decided politically that they are not going  to let the police officers arrest the rioters, but they are going to  release the rioters; the media that turn a blind eye and don't report  on the police officers being murdered; the Hollywood celebrities who  virtue signal and raise money to pay the bail for the people being  arrested for violent looting--every one of them is contributing to this  problem. 

  We also have Federal resources. I have spoken with U.S. attorneys in  the State of Texas who are directing Federal resources. There are  Federal laws on the books against rioting: 18 USC, section 2101, makes  it a crime to travel in or use interstate commerce to incite a riot or  participate in a riot; 18 USC, section 231, makes it a crime to  ``obstruct, impede, or interfere'' with a law enforcement officer  performing his or her duties ``in any way'' that affects commerce; 18  USC, section 844, makes it a crime to ``maliciously [damage] or  [destroy], or [attempt] to damage or destroy, by means of fire or an  explosive, any building, vehicle, or other real or personal property  used in interstate or foreign commerce''; 18 USC, section 1962, the  RICO statute, makes it a crime for anyone associated with an enterprise  to engage in a pattern of racketeering activity where racketeering  activity includes arson and robbery; 26 USC, section 5861(d) makes it a  crime to possess a destructive device, which is defined in a way that  includes a Molotov cocktail; and 18 USC, section 2314, makes it a crime  to transport interstate or sell goods that are stolen.  

  All of those are Federal laws that are available for Federal  prosecutors, that are available to the FBI. The message that needs to  come clear--loud and clear--from every elected official is if you  engage in violence, if you engage in looting, if you destroy shops, if  you shatter windows, if you light police cars on fire, if you commit  acts of violence, if you physically assault your fellow citizens, if  you physically assault police officers, if you kill your fellow  citizens, if you kill police officers, you will be prosecuted. You will  be prosecuted, and you will go away to jail for a very long time. 

  There are organizations that are promoting this, that are funding  this, that are coordinating this--organizations like antifa. For 2  years, I have been calling on the administration to designate antifa as  a domestic terrorist organization. They have engaged in acts of  violence all across this country. But this past week has been antifa's  most shameful act. 

  This week, the President rightly announced that antifa would be  designated as a terrorist organization. That means we can use law  enforcement resources to track down--if you are providing funding and  organizing, you will be prosecuted. We will use the RICO laws against  you, the same laws that take down drug dealers. 

  If you are handing out bricks to young African-American men, trying  to incite them to commit acts of violence, that is a criminal activity.  It is also a cynical, bigoted activity. This must stop. 

  Our first responsibility is to protect our fellow citizens, to  protect their lives, to protect their safety, to protect their rights.  The President has that responsibility. The Attorney General has that  responsibility. Every U.S. attorney in the country has that  responsibility. The FBI has that responsibility. The Governors of all  50 States have that responsibility. Mayors have that responsibility.  Police chiefs have that responsibility. 

  It is time for this to stop. It is time for us to come together. And  it is time for the demagogues who peddle the vision, who seek personal  benefit in fanning the flames of racial animosity, to stop playing  games with people's lives. 

  If you are a Hollywood celebrity and want to make a contribution,  make a contribution to a fund rebuilding the small businesses, the  African-American businesses, the Hispanic businesses that have been  looted and burned and destroyed. Make a contribution to a fund to the  families of the police officers murdered. Don't pay to bail out the  criminals assaulting those police officers, burning those African- American small businesses, looting those African-American small  businesses. You are not a social justice warrior. If you are lining up,  seeking accolades for your support of violent criminals who are  deliberately targeting the African-American community, I will tell you  right now, you are not advancing racial equality if you are supporting  violent criminals who are destroying far too many African-American  communities and Hispanic communities. That is not helping the problem. 

  We need to keep America safe. We need to protect every American,  regardless of race, regardless of skin color.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT