Expressing Condemnation of the Chinese Communist Party's Persecution of Religious Minority Groups


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696588/expressing-condemnation-of-the-chinese-communist-partys-persecution-of-religious-minority-groups


Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, I rise today to speak about a grave matter  and a clear violation of religious freedom, human dignity, and the rule  of law.

In China, Christians are fighting daily for their religious freedom  against the Chinese Communist Party. And on October 10, 2025, the  Chinese Communist Party launched the largest coordinated nationwide  crackdown in more than four decades against a Christian urban house  church in China.

In that sweep, 23 pastors and church members of the Zion Church, one  of China's largest underground congregations, were arrested and  wrongfully detained, including Pastor Ezra Jin.

Pastor Jin and the members of the Zion Church were not engaged in  violence. They were worshiping. They were serving God. And for that  action, they are being treated as enemies of the communist state.

Last week, I introduced a bipartisan, bicameral resolution to condemn  the abduction of Pastor Jin and the Zion Church leaders and to demand  their immediate release. This resolution is designed to pressure  Chinese leadership to release the congregation members and to let them  practice their Christian faith freely. It sends a message that faith is  not a crime, and a government that fears its citizens' faith is nothing  more than an oppressive tyranny.

Pastor Jin's daughter and her husband Bill, a native Houstonian,  wrote about the CCP's persecution in the Washington Post this past  week. In their column, they made a piercing observation, and I want to  share it here in full:

There were few more obvious ways to showcase the bankruptcy       of an ideology--and the vitality of the Christian faith--than       by forcing peaceful believers to suffer for the sake of their       convictions.

This is a profound truth. China, like other communist regimes before  it, utterly despises the fact that there is and always has been a  higher authority than the state itself. In its effort to bring every  aspect of society under brutal government control, the CCP uses state  power to drive fear into the hearts of its citizens. History has shown  that these tactics will fail, and the persecuted church will only grow  stronger.

The Apostle Paul reminds us that God gave us not a spirit of fear but  of power and of love. I know that that same spirit--one of power and of  love--is what the church in China is fighting with.

I urge my colleagues to join me in passing this resolution  unanimously to show our support for Pastor Jin, his family, and his  fellow believers, and to show the world that the United States stands  on the side of freedom, on the side of faith, and we stand with the  persecuted Christians in China.

Res. 463.

Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, I know of no further debate on the  resolution, as amended.