Following Rosenstein's Testimony, Sen. Cruz Slams Former U.S. Deputy Attorney General's Negligence on Fox News' "Hannity'


U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, on Wednesday appeared on Fox News' "Hannity,' following his questioning of former U.S. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, where he condemned the Obama administration's abuse of power in targeting President Trump's campaign and administration.

On "Hannity,' Sen. Cruz argued that both President Obama and Vice President Biden's weaponization of the Department of Justice (DOJ), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the intelligence community against President Trump's campaign was "much worse" than the abuses committed by President Nixon:

"This was from day one a politicized partisan targeting of the President, of his campaign, of his team, of General Flynn, of Carter Page. It was wrong. It was abusive. Take everything Richard Nixon did in office that was wrong [and] abusing power, and by any measure, what Barack Obama and Joe Biden did was much, much worse."

He continued, noting Rosenstein's failure to recognize the politicization of the FBI:

""I see nothing, I hear nothing.' That was Rod Rosenstein's defense today. Essentially, he signed the papers in front of him. He said he didn't read the FISA application. He said he had kind of read it quickly but not every word. And he just took the FBI's word for it. So the fact that you had an FBI lawyer fraudulently altering documents, he didn't ask any questions. The fact that the Steele dossier had been completely repudiated by then, he didn't ask any questions. The fact that Strzok and Page were wildly partisan and he knew that, he didn't ask questions about that. The fact that the DNC paid for the ridiculous Steele dossier, he didn't ask those questions at all.

"Listen, the reason someone is put in a leadership position at the Department of Justice or the FBI, is to lead. And that means if it has been corrupted and turned into a partisan weapon, you got to ask the hard questions. And sadly, what his testimony today was is that he did not."