If There's Serious Evidence of Corruption, the President Not Only Has the Ability to Investigate, but a Responsibility to Do So


For two days, Democratic House Managers have sanctimoniously lectured the American people from the Senate floor. But there's a light at the end of the tunnel - Reps. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.) are finally wrapping up their oral arguments.

Tomorrow will be the first time in which the President and his lawyers will be able to make their case to the American people, which is why U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), chairman of the Subcommittee on The Constitution, appeared on several radio shows to give an update on the Senate trial - and his expectations moving forward.

This morning on the Hugh Hewitt Show, Sen. Cruz outlined the strategic error House Democrats made in making Burisma central to their case:

"The most important question in this entire trial, and the reason why at the end of the trial the President is going to be acquitted, is can a President investigate corruption? And the answer is obviously yes. And in fact, if there's serious evidence of corruption, the President not only has an ability to investigate, [but] a responsibility to do so.

"When it comes to Burisma, Burisma is the largest natural gas company in Ukraine. It was owned and controlled by a Ukrainian oligarch who made billions doing this. It was corrupt through and through, and Burisma had on its board Hunter Biden, the son of Joe Biden. It was paying him a million dollars a year.

"Joe Biden was the Obama administration's point person for Ukraine policy. And he vigorously advocated - he pressured Ukraine to fire the prosecutor that was investigating and targeting Burisma and the oligarch who had made billions. And he did all of this while his son was making a million bucks a year. Now whether that is in fact corrupt or not, I don't know. But it's at least - it's enormous evidence to justify investigating, to make whether it's corrupt, and that's what President Trump asked the Ukrainians to do, and that was within his authority and responsibility to do."

Sen. Cruz also went on the Glenn Beck Show, where he said:

"That proposition that there's zero evidence to investigate Burisma is utterly and completely absurd. And so I am looking forward to Saturday when the President's lawyers will begin presenting his case. Because what the Democrats have done - they have opened the door to this. And I hope that the President's lawyers will stand up and systematically lay out the case."

On the Mark Levin Show last night, Sen. Cruz said:

"Here's a reason it's taken them this long: they keep saying the same thing over and over and over again. They have about six video clips that they play one after the other after the other. And they're not proving their case."