Medal of Honor Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696586/medal-of-honor-act


Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, I rise today to honor a very special group  of Americans--the soldiers, the sailors, the marines, and the airmen  who have fought bravely for this Nation, but who have received the very  highest distinction that any member of the Armed Forces can earn, the  Medal of Honor.

Since 1863, Presidents of the United States have awarded the Medal of  Honor to more than 3,500 of the bravest men and women ever to wear the  uniform of this Nation. Each one has demonstrated valor, gallantry, and  heroism above and beyond the call of duty, with acts so selfless, so  extraordinary that they stand as beacons of courage for future  generations.

In 1960, Congress passed Public Law 6556, establishing the Army and  Navy Medal of Honor Roll and entitling each Medal of Honor recipient to  a modest special pension of $10 per month for life.

Over time, that monthly amount has gradually increased from $10 to  $100, to what stands today at approximately $1,400 per month.

But let's pause and think about that: $1,400 a month for those who  risked everything--their safety, their future, their very lives for  freedom, for the opportunity for all of us to be here today.

Today, there are 61 living Medal of Honor recipients, 61 men who  faced unthinkable odds, who put their country before themselves so that  the rest of us could live in peace. We cannot truly ever repay them.  There is no sum, there is no medal, there are no words that can measure  up to their sacrifice. But there are ways that we can continue to honor  them, by ensuring that they are cared for, respected, and supported.

In January of this year, I introduced the Medals Act, my legislation  to raise the monthly pension for Medal of Honor recipients. This  legislation is a way for this Nation to say: We see you, we remember  you, and we will not forget what you have done.

Many of these heroes spend their time traveling the country, speaking  to schoolchildren, visiting military hospitals, and strengthening the  very fabric of America.

This monetary increase will allow them to continue those efforts and  to reach more communities, mentor more veterans, and remind all of us  about the cost of freedom.

And I would like to take a moment to recognize nine Medal of Honor  recipients who currently live in the Lone Star State. We honor them,  and we cherish them.

I would also like to recognize the 139 Medal of Honor recipients who  were either born in, entered the service from, or died in Texas. These  are America's heroes, and they are heroes for the great State of Texas.

Now, I would like to take a moment to recognize the Medal of Honor  recipients here in the Gallery: LTC William Swenson and COL Paris  Davis.

In just a moment, I will propound a unanimous consent request to take  up and pass H.R. 695, the House-passed version of the Medal Act that  passed  the House 424 to 0. I urge my colleagues to join me, as our companions  in the House have already done, in supporting this measure, in passing  it into law, in sending it directly to the President's desk to be  signed into law, and showing that, when it comes to honoring our  Nation's very greatest heroes, we are united, and we speak with one  voice.

695,  and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration.