MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, this is a time of extraordinary crisis for  our Nation. 

  In this time of crisis, I call upon each of our colleagues on both  sides of the aisle to rise above--rise above paid partisanship, rise  above the bickering that so often consumes Washington, rise above and  put first the priorities of the millions of Americans who are hurt. 

  Look, there is a time for political disagreements. There is a time  for policy disagreements. I am no stranger to robust political and  policy disagreements. But we are in this midst of a global pandemic.  People are dying. People are suffering. 

  Last night, when this Senate voted on whether to move forward with  emergency relief legislation for the millions of people being  devastated by the economic disaster we are seeing as a result of the  coronavirus epidemic, every single Democrat in this body voted to block  consideration of this bill 

  Now, for those of you at home who are not poring over a Senate  procedural matter, what does it mean to vote to block consideration? It  doesn't mean they voted against the bill. It means they voted against  even starting to take it up. 

  The New York Times headline, moments afterward, said: Democrats block  $1.7 trillion stimulus bill. Of course, that headline had the fault of  being accurate, and so within minutes, the New York Times changed it  to: Democrats block $1.7 trillion stimulus bill citing worker concerns.  That was headline No. 2. 

  But then apparently the partisan leanings of the New York Times were  too strong for that, and so they revised it a third time to say:  Partisan division halts discussion of the bill. 

  No, it wasn't partisan division. It was one party--the Democratic  Party--saying to this Chamber and the American people: Hell, no. We  will not even take this up and discuss it. 

  At a time of crisis, at a time when people are dying, that is wrong.  That is shameful. 

  When we awakened this morning, following the Democrats' obstruction,  worldwide there were 372,563 reported cases of the coronavirus. In the  hours since then, just today, there have been an additional 23,352  cases reported today. While the Democrats are blocking the bill, 23,000  new cases today. 

  In the United States, when we started this morning, there were 35,224  cases--this morning. Right now, as of the latest numbers, there are  41,708 cases in the United States today. That means we have had an  additional 6,484 cases today while the Democrats are blockading--and by  the way, where are the Democrats? 

  C-SPAN doesn't show this whole Chamber often, but it would be nice if  they did because that entire side of the Chamber is empty. They are not  showing up for work. They are not doing their job. 

  In Texas this morning, there had been 668 cases. As of right now,  there are 722--54 more cases today while the Democrats are blocking  consideration of this bill. 

  How about deaths? Look, as we look at this crisis, there are people  right now gasping for breath. You and I, we have friends who have been  diagnosed with this disease. We have read stories. We have talked to  people who have struggled under it. 

  I heard from one individual who is hospitalized right now that  breathing felt like a belt strapped across his chest; that he could  barely breathe. 

  As of this morning, worldwide, there had been 16,381 deaths. I am  sorry--that is the number now. This morning it was only 15,308. That  means today, while the Democrats have been blocking this bill, 1,073  additional people died. 

  In the United States, as of this morning, there were 471 deaths  reported due to coronavirus. As of right now, it is 573. That means  today 102 Americans died while the Democrats were blocking  consideration of this bill. 

  In Texas as of this morning, there had been eight deaths. Now there  are nine. One Texan died while half this Chamber refused to show up and  do their job. 

  Now, this morning when we voted again, we saw the first signs of  cracks. There was one Democrat, a Senator from Alabama, who had voted  no yesterday, decided this morning, well, maybe we should take up the  bill. One. One Democrat. Where are the rest? 

  There are a lot of Democrats who like to hold themselves out as  moderate Democrats. Where are they? 

  Right now, what the Democratic leadership is doing is they are  playing games. They are playing games in a way that is irresponsible. 

  Listen, this bill has a lot of important elements for a lot of people  who are hurting. You have not only the people who are hospitalized, the  people who are suffering, but you also have economic devastation, as  much of this country has ground to a halt. 

  We have people who work in restaurants, waiters, waitresses, bellboys  who haven't gone to work in over a week. We have people in hotels. I  have spoken to business owner after business owner after business owner  for the last week. 

  One hotel owner described how he currently had 6 percent occupancy  rates. You can't keep a hotel running with 6 percent occupancy rates. 

  I talked to one hotel owner who described how he had made 5,000  layoffs in the last week. Another hotel owner had made 6,000 layoffs in  the past week. 

  I talked to an oil and gas business owner who had laid off 5,000  workers in the past week. I talked to another oil and gas business  owner who had laid off 5,000 workers in the last week. 

  You know, today I am thinking about people like my friends, the  Republic Country Club. Now, Republic Country Club is a bit of a  misnomer. It is a barbecue joint outside of Houston. It is owned by my  friend Michael Berry. It is often the venue of country-western  concerts. The venue is sometimes for comedy shows. 

  I went and took my dad to Larry the Cable Guy at Republic Country  Club. I have had multiple election night parties at Republic Country  Club. It is a big old honky-tonk. You have never seen so many confused  national reporters as they walked in and looked around and didn't know  what to make of the place.  

  Father's Day a year ago, I did a Father's Day party at Republic  Country Club. My dad--we roasted up two whole pigs. The cook staff at  the barbecue place, they made them up and had a big  party. We invited people there. It is a Cuban tradition to roast a  whole pig. 

  Now, why am I telling you about Republic Country Club? Because  yesterday, which happened to be my father's 81st birthday--yesterday  Republic Country Club announced they are closing their doors. 

  Yesterday Michael Berry sent out a tweet telling first responders,  telling police officers and firefighters and everyone on the frontline,  he said: Drive by Republic Country Club today--March 23--drive by  during the day, and we will give you free barbecue. We are going to  cook everything we have, and we are just going to give it away and to  go. You can't come in, but we are going to give you to-go boxes. 

  And he went on to say they are emptying out all of the liquor from  the storeroom and from behind the bar, and they are giving it to the  employees because the employees are all being laid off. And he said he  doesn't know if he will open again. 

  Now, I will tell you, those employees--the bartenders, the bouncers-- many of them are veterans. Many of them are big guys, covered with  tats. They are salt of the earth, and right now they don't know where  the rent check is coming from next week. 

  That is happening all across this country. That is happening not just  at one barbecue place in Houston. That is happening at bars. That is  happening at nail salons. It is happening at movie theaters. 

  You know, I love Sunday night to go with a buddy of mine and go watch  a movie. Movie theaters are shut down all over this country. 

  Retail stores--people laid off. Nobody is going to the mall right  now, and for the people who are hurting, they are scared. They don't  know, No. 1, if they are going to get sick, but No. 2, they don't know  how they are going to make ends meet. 

  This is a time of crisis, and we ought to be coming together. 

  Now, listen, this bill that we were moving to, I don't necessarily  agree with every word of it, but there are a number of elements in this  bill that are designed to provide real help to people who are hurting. 

  One element of this bill is to give cash--an immediate check for  $1,200--to every person in this country, every adult in this country  earning under $75,000 a year, $2,400 for every couple earning under  $150,000 a year, plus $500 for every child they have. 

  Now, you want to talk about real relief for people who are scared and  they say: What do I do next? Those are checks that are coming in the  mail. And what have the Democrats said? No. Halt the checks. 

  Right now, those checks aren't coming, and they aren't coming for one  reason: because the Senate Democrats are blocking taking up that bill. 

  In many circumstances, that would not be the right policy outcome, to  just send checks to people, but at a time of crisis, where you need  people just to be able to make it to tomorrow, putting some resources  in their hands makes a big difference. 

  Another element of this bill that is being blocked by Senate  Democrats is $350 billion in emergency loans to small businesses--to  small businesses like Republic Country Club, to small businesses like  restaurants and bars, and small businesses like nail salons and barber  shops and movie theaters and dress shops and hardware stores, small  businesses that are right now putting up the signs saying: ``Closed for  coronavirus.'' 

  Those emergency loans are designed to be given with the condition  that they keep their employees on payroll. A lot of these small  business owners want to keep their employees on payroll, but they don't  have the cash. Under the terms of this bill, those loans are forgiven  if--if--if they keep their employees on payroll. 

  By the way, the Democratic talking point is, oh, this is just cash to  businesses. Tell that to the owner of the barber shop who takes an  emergency loan to not fire all of her employees. That loan, under the  terms, is forgiven if the employees stay on the payroll. The Democrats  are blocking that right now. 

  What about unemployment insurance? The job numbers coming out shortly  I expect to be massive in terms of the job losses. I think we will see  north of 2 or 3 million people who lost their jobs, and the numbers are  getting worse. Every phone call I have is with more people who are  losing their jobs. It is bad. It will come back, but it is bad right  now. We need emergency support to get people through this dark time. 

  This bill has $250 billion for additional unemployment insurance.  What does that mean? That is an additional $600 per week for an  additional 13 weeks. If you are one of the waitresses right now who  have just been told their jobs have gone away and you applied for  unemployment insurance, if this bill passes, you get an extra $600  immediately. But you know what--you don't right now because Senate  Democrats are blocking this. If they have reasonable concerns, they are  welcome to raise them. 

  By the way, this bill was drafted with the participation of nearly a  dozen Senate Democrats who were actively part of the task force's  submitting suggestions. One of the suggestions the Democrats submitted  during the drafting was to plus-up those unemployment insurance  numbers, and they got agreement. This was drafted in a bipartisan  manner. 

  What happened? I will tell you. Yesterday, Sunday, most of us thought  we were going to move with this, but then Nancy Pelosi decided it is  time to play politics, decided to throw a grenade into this whole  process. She had a list of demands--an over 1,000-page bill she drops  out of nowhere--and the demands she is pushing, I ask you, do these  have anything to do with the coronavirus epidemic? 

  A number of people have cited the famed quote of Rahm Emanuel:  ``Never let a good crisis go to waste.'' Sadly, we are seeing the  embodiment of that cynical approach right now because all of the people  out of jobs, the Democrats are using to push--what are they pushing  for? Changing the emissions standards for airplanes. What the hell do  the emissions standards for airplanes have to do with millions of  people out of work during the coronavirus epidemic? Don't treat this  bill like a partisan Christmas. 

  Republicans have things we would like to advance, too, things I  believe in deeply. You want to talk about what I would like to do? I  would like to abolish the IRS. I campaigned all over the country for  that. I will continue fighting for that, but I am not standing here  with an amendment, saying: As part of this emergency relief, let's  abolish the IRS. There is a place for that political and policy  discussion. 

  The Democrats are pushing wind and solar tax credits. What in the  hell does a windmill have to do with this crisis, other than some  Democratic lobbyists getting fat and rich, and they are willing to  extort a crisis to try to advance their political agenda? 

  There are mandates on corporate board diversity. So these are  Democrats who want to social-engineer. Listen, I actually have a lot of  problems with corporate boards. We have far too many corporate boards  that are docile and do what management wants. That is a serious  problem. There is a lot of discussion about stock buybacks. I tell you,  what I am concerned about with stock buybacks is when you have  compensation agreements in place that the executives get rich if they  get a short-term boost in share price, and it ends up hurting the  shareholders. I would love to see more vigorous boards of directors  that make sure you are not creating incentives to gain a stock price.  That is a reasonable question. But they want to mandate, effectively,  quotas on boards of directors. What in the hell does that have to do  with this crisis? 

  The Pelosi wish list wants to restructure the debt of the post  office. Last time I checked, our postal workers go through wind and  rain and snow, but they haven't been laid off. 

  I call upon both sides--don't play games with this. This crisis isn't  going to end tomorrow. It is not going to end the next day. It is going  to last for a considerable time. It is going to require adults to step  up and lead. 

  On the pandemic, we need to follow the science. We need to listen to  the doctors. We need to listen to the physicians. We need to take the  steps we are taking to keep people safe. 

  On the economy, we need to give people who are hurting immediate  relief, and we need to make sure a liquidity crisis doesn't become a  solvency crisis. 

  It is interesting--many Democrats are saying they don't want  corporate  bailouts. I agree. I am passionately opposed to corporate bailouts. One  of the things I was gratefully relieved about as far as how this bill  was structured is that it is structured as loans and not condition-free  grants. It is structured primarily so that it is not picking favored  companies that happen to have a big lobbying presence in Washington. 

  What does it mean to not have a liquidity crisis become a solvency  crisis? Let's take, for example, the airlines. I have spoken with every  major airline CEO in the past 2 weeks. The airlines are losing billions  of dollars every month. They didn't cause this problem. Unlike the  financial crisis in 2008, this crisis was not caused by misconduct of  one industry or another. It is not the airlines' fault that the Federal  Government has shut down flights to Asia and to Europe. That is not  their fault. It is not the fault of the owner of a restaurant in  downtown Houston that the city of Houston has shut down the restaurant.  It is not the small business owner's fault. 

  What we don't want is, when the bills come due for all of those  businesses, for them to have to sell their assets in a fire sale. We  don't want the restaurant owner who has a pizzeria, who has saved to  buy this fantastic pizza oven, to have to sell the pizza oven for  pennies on the dollar because a liquidity crisis has become a solvency  crisis. We don't want our U.S. airlines to put up a garage sale  effectively to sell all their airplanes because they are going bankrupt  in the midst of a crisis. We want to come out of this with a strong,  robust commercial airlines sector. We want to come out of this with  small businesses thriving. We want to come out of this with a thriving  energy sector. We want to come out of this with jobs. 

  I will close this the way I started--by calling on Democrats and  calling on Republicans to rise above petty partisan games. The  Democratic leaders are playing these games to every one of you  Democrats. Listen to the men and women in your States. Don't give in to  the games. Most of the Democratic Senators say they don't even know  what their side wants. But it is just their leadership that is willing  to hold the American people hostage for unrelated, political, partisan  objectives. 

  By the way, one of the reasons I think Senate Democrats are so  willing to engage in this is they expect the media to be utterly  complicit in their cynical gamesmanship. So we stand here this  afternoon--and it is not only the Democratic side of the Chamber that  is empty, but as I look up to the press, nobody is there. There is not  a single reporter sitting in the Chamber. I have seen the New York  Times--actually, nobody is sitting in the Chamber, so they may have  closed the Chamber, in which case that may have been an unfair assault.  But it is not an unfair assault to say that the New York Times is  changing its headline to give political cover to Senate Democrats 

  This is a time of crisis, not a time to play games. It is time to  rise above. It is a time to stand for the American men and women. It is  a time to stand for jobs. It is a time to help protect people's lives. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT