Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700784/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, later this year, American citizens across  the country will exercise one of their most valuable and sacred rights:  the right to vote--a right that has been hard-earned and fought for  from the founding generation of our Republic to today.

How was the right to self-government, the right to vote secured? It  was secured by American colonists who rejected the royal edict and  hurled tea into Boston Harbor, declaring ``no taxation without  representation.'' It was secured by ordinary men who seized their  muskets and fired the shot heard around world at Lexington and Concord.  It was secured by Continental troops who marched to the fields of  Saratoga and the coastline of Yorktown, repeating those immortal worlds  of Patrick Henry: ``Give me liberty or give me death.''

For nearly 250 years, Americans have cast their votes for leaders at  every level--from local officials, to State representatives, to the  President of the United States. Every Member of this body is here today  because we were elected fairly and honestly and given a mandate by our  constituents to serve them here in Washington and to protect the  liberties and freedoms our Founders fought to preserve.

The power of the ballot box determines the course of our Nation, the  history we are writing, and the freedoms we continue to defend. And  while no single ballot in isolation may seem decisive, together, the  votes of the American people shape the course of our Nation and the  course of history.

But it is worth remembering that our voting system did not begin as  it exists today. When this Nation was founded, the right to vote was  limited, and over time, through debate, sacrifice, a bloody Civil War,  and constitutional amendment, the right to vote was quite properly  expanded. The 15th Amendment prohibited denying the vote based on race.  The 19th Amendment guaranteed women the right to vote. The 26th  Amendment lowered the voting age to 18. At every stage of our  constitutional amendment process, the goal was the same: to ensure that  the right to vote belonged to American citizens and that it was  exercised with integrity.

While our system has evolved, one principle has remained constant:  Elections reflect the will of the American people. For a right so  sacred, for a privilege so hard fought, it is shocking, it is tragic  how neglected and vulnerable the protection of our elections has  become.

That is why I am here today on this very floor urging the Members of  this body to pass the SAVE America Act. It says that when you register  to vote in a Federal election, you must provide proof that you are a  citizen of the United States and you must provide photo ID to vote. In  simple terms, that is it.

This is not some radical, politicized, or weaponized piece of  legislation designed to restrict Americans from voting; it is a  commonsense measure that protects the integrity of our elections by  ensuring that American citizens and only American citizens are voting  in them.

Legitimacy in a democracy rests on two pillars: first, the mechanical  integrity of the system to produce a valid result, and second, the  public's confidence in that system. If either one fails, the system  falters. If both fail, the system collapses. A system that cannot be  trusted is a system that cannot govern.

If you look around the world, between two-thirds and three-quarters  of countries require some form of identification to vote. Why? Because  it safeguards the integrity of their elections and reinforces public  trust in their system.

So it begs the question: Why hasn't the United States fully embraced  this standard?

Well, for the last several months, we have heard claim after claim  about how this legislation would somehow inhibit people from voting,  that requiring identification is discriminatory, and that the American  people do not support voter ID.

Our Democrat colleagues are fond of bellowing into the TV cameras  that photo ID to vote is Jim Crow--they tell us with mock earnestness.  Now, I will admit our Democrat colleagues should be experts in Jim Crow  because it was Democrat politicians who passed the Jim Crow laws. It  was Democrat politicians who founded the Ku Klux Klan. It was Democrat  politicians, decade after decade, who enforced discrimination,  separate-but-equal poll taxes, and a host of other laws designed to  prevent African Americans from voting.

But do you know who has rejected their disingenuous claim that a  photo ID to vote is Jim Crow? The Supreme Court of the United States-- the Supreme Court of the United States.

The State of Indiana passed a photo ID law requiring that you show a  photo ID to vote, and a group of leftwing plaintiffs filed litigation  challenging that. The case went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court.

At the time, I was the solicitor general of the State of Texas. I led  a coalition of States before the Supreme Court defending photo ID to  vote, and the leftwing plaintiffs made the same argument that our  Democrat colleagues make today--that requiring a photo ID to vote would  somehow disenfranchise minorities.

The Supreme Court, by a vote of 6 to 3, rejected their argument. The  author of the majority opinion was John Paul Stevens. John Paul Stevens  was one of the great liberals on the Court. He was not a conservative.  He was not of the rightwing. He was the leading liberal for years on  the U.S. Supreme Court. He rejected that claim, and he pointed out that  when someone votes illegally, they are stealing the votes of legal  voters; they are stealing the votes of American citizens. The Supreme  Court explained that when photo ID laws have been implemented, minority  participation in the election goes up, not down, and the Supreme Court  explained that requiring photo ID enhances the integrity of an election  and the integrity of democracy.

Now, our Democrat colleagues don't want to acknowledge any of those  facts, and I guess it is understandable because the American people  have heard their specious arguments, and they have rejected them.  Eighty-one percent of Americans support requiring a photo ID to vote.

But my Democrat colleagues might say: What about African Americans?  Well, about three-quarters of African Americans in the United States  support requiring a photo ID to vote.

How about Hispanics? More than 80 percent of Hispanics in America  support requiring a photo ID to vote.

How about Democrats? Here is an astonishing statistic: If you get out  of elective office and you ask a Democrat  on the street, 70 percent of Democrats in America support requiring a  photo ID to vote.

The one group that doesn't is elected Democrats in the U.S. Senate  and the U.S. House.

By the way, the premise of their argument that minorities, if you  require a photo ID to vote, are not going to be able to vote is,  frankly, insulting.

I am proud to be an Hispanic American. I have been Hispanic all my  life. Do you know what I have in my wallet? I have a driver's license.  I look at my colleagues across the way, and I feel confident they have  driver's licenses in their wallets as well.

Hispanics are not morons. African Americans are not morons. When you  claim minorities can't figure out how to get a driver's license--well,  gosh, what do you need a photo ID to do right now in America? You need  a photo ID to purchase alcohol or to purchase tobacco. You need a photo  ID to gamble or to purchase lottery tickets. You need a photo ID to go  into a bar. You need a photo ID to get on a plane. You need a photo ID  to rent a car. You need a photo ID just to drive a car--not even to  rent a car but to drive a car. You need a photo ID to apply for  government benefits. You need a photo ID to enroll in college. You need  a photo ID to open a bank account. You need a photo ID to check into a  hotel. And--I have to admit this is my personal favorite--you need a  photo ID--actually two photo IDs--to shovel snow in New York City.  These are routine, everyday activities.

The Gallery is full. I feel confident everyone in the Gallery who is  not a child has a driver's license. By the way, you wouldn't be  admitted to the Gallery if you didn't. And I feel confident every  Member of this Chamber has done just about anything I listed--well,  except shoveling snow. I am not convinced many of my colleagues have  shoveled snow, although they do shovel other things.

The question is not whether Americans are bright enough to obtain a  photo ID. We know they can, and we know they do. The real question is,  Why would we not require the same level of verification for something  as consequential and vital as voting? Are our Democrat colleagues  saying voting doesn't matter or is it something else?

Voting is not just another everyday activity; it rolls around every  year or few years, and it is the vehicle that protects the principles  of our Republic. It is safeguarding what matters.

This legislation is necessary because there are individuals and  systems that can undermine confidence in our elections if proper  safeguards are not in place. One of the most apparent ways that we have  seen is through the masses of illegal immigrants that our Democrat  colleagues let in through open borders for over 4 years.

During the Biden administration, more than 12 million illegal  immigrants flooded into this country--the vast majority through my home  State of Texas. Now, understand that was not an accident. That was not  something the Democrats could not stop. That was their desired outcome.  How do we know that? Because the instant President Trump was sworn into  office for his second term, illegal border crossings plummeted 99  percent overnight.

The Democrats said: No, Joe Biden can't secure the border. He needs  new legislation.

We now know that was a lie. It was objectively false, and they knew  it was false.

Well, if they could have secured the border for 4 years, they chose  not to. They chose to let murderers into this country. They chose to  let rapists into this country. They chose to let child molesters into  this country. They chose to let gang bangers into this country. They  chose to let terrorists into this country. We have had four radical  Islamic terror attacks in the last 2 weeks.

Why would the Democrats choose to allow more than 12 million illegal  aliens to invade this country? I am going to suggest the obvious  reason: because the Democrats look at those illegal aliens and they  want them to cast a vote for Democrats in Federal elections.

Why are the Democrats lined up and saying: No. No. No. Under no  circumstances should we test to see if you are an American citizen.  Under no circumstances should we require photo IDs.

There was one activist a few years ago who filmed himself going into  a DC polling place.

The DC polling place said: Sir, what is your name?

He said: My name is Eric Holder.

Now, this activist was not the Attorney General of the United States  at the time, but yet DC handed him a ballot and said: Mr. Holder,  please cast your vote.

The Democrats are lined up in this Chamber because they want our  elections to be insecure; they want voter fraud to be rampant and to be  easy.

Ask yourself: Do the American people have a difficult time buying a  beer? Do they have a difficult time getting into an R-rated movie? Do  they have a difficult time getting on an airplane? Well, yes, because  the Democrats have refused to fund the TSA, so there are long lines  right now. But the lack of a photo ID is not an impediment that stops  people from flying.

This debate is about something very simple: Do our elections matter?  Does our democracy matter?

And, boy, I have got to say that that is a phrase the Democrats  love--that they are defending democracy. It is interesting that their  voices usually drop an octave when they say that. They clutch their  pearls--and that is just the men. ``Defending democracy'' is what they  say.

Ask yourself: Why are they not concerned at all about the 12 million  illegals whom they let into this country voting illegally? I will  submit that Occam's razor provides that the simplest solution is  usually the right one. The simplest solution is very clear: The  Democrats in this body want illegals to vote. They want power enough  that they are more than happy to undermine democracy to try to seize  power. I get that from their personal self-interest, but it is not in  the interest of the men and women they represent; it is not in the  interest of the people of America.

This bill is rightly called the SAVE America Act. If we were voting  on the merits of what was good for America, what was good for  democracy, and what was good for American citizens, the vote would be  100 to nothing.

Although I would note that on the other side of this building, at the  State of the Union Address that the Presiding Officer was at and that I  was at, we saw why our Democrat colleagues are so adamantly opposed to  this bill. President Trump turned to the Democrats on the right side of  the floor of the House, and he gave them an opportunity to demonstrate  with absolute clarity.

He said: If you agree our first priority should be to fight for  American citizens and not for illegal aliens, please stand.

Every single Democrat in Congress remained seated.

I would note, as we are on the floor today, of the 47 Democrats in  this body, only 1 is here on the floor, but a whole lot more were on  the floor during the State of the Union, and every one of them chose to  remain seated because they could not support the statement that we need  to support American citizens and not illegal aliens. That is why they  oppose the SAVE America Act. It is because they want to be handed power  over this country by the illegal aliens they let into this country.

That is why we need to save America, and it is why I urge every  Member of this body to pass the SAVE America Act.