Sen. Cruz Leads Calls for Fundamental Reassessment of U.S.-China Relationship


U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) is leading the charge in the Senate to fundamentally reassess the U.S.-China relationship as the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) continues to lie and engage in a massive coverup of the coronavirus outbreak, threatens to cut off U.S. access to life-saving medications made only in China, and squash Hong Kong's autonomy.

As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Cruz is working to:

Hold China accountable for the type of medical censorship and suppression that fueled the coronavirus pandemic.Combat China's propaganda campaign in the U.S., including stopping the Chinese Communist Party using radio stations in Mexico or Canada to propagandize to Americans, and cutting off Hollywood studios' access to assistance they receive from the federal government if they censor their films for screening in China.End U.S. dependence on China, including expanding medical partnerships with U.S. allies like Israel and bringing home the supply chain for rare earth elements and other critical minerals.Counter Chinese espionage by prohibiting U.S. federal employees from conducing official business over platforms run by Tencent, Huawei, ZTE and other CCP-backed companies.This week, in a speech on the Senate Floor, Sen. Cruz specifically warned about the urgent need to combat the Chinese Communist Party's propaganda and the dangerous censorship that sparked a global pandemic, saying:

"We need to be vigilant and to act where we can to thwart the Chinese government's attempts to twist the truth, to censor and to silence within China, but we also need to be vigilant about the Chinese government's attempts to censor and silence elsewhere, including in our own nation.

"In the United States, the Chinese government attempts to spread propaganda by two ways: by leveraging their enormous market access to coerce Americans into self-censorship, especially to Hollywood and sports teams who stand to make billions of dollars in China, and by simply purchasing access to our cultural and educational centers. With both levers, Chinese officials have one objective: to shape what Americans see, hear, and ultimately think."

He added:

"We need to stand up and deal directly with the threat China poses. China bears direct responsibility, direct culpability, for the over 300,000 people who have died worldwide, for the trillions in economic livelihoods that have been destroyed."