Senate Foreign Relations Committee Passes Two Cruz Initiatives


Two initiatives led by U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) to strengthen U.S. national security were passed by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today with strong bipartisan support.

The committee unanimously advanced the Expanding Medical Partnerships with Israel to Lessen Dependence on China Act, Sens. Cruz and Chris Coons' (D-Del.) legislation to lessen dependence on China by enhancing partnerships between companies and researchers in the United States and Israel to develop innovative medical projects aimed at detecting, treating, and curing COVID-19.

After the vote, Sen. Cruz said:

"The most important long-term national security and foreign policy consequence of this coronavirus pandemic is going to be a fundamental reassessment of the United States' relationship with China. In the middle of a global pandemic that originated in Wuhan, China, the Chinese Communist Party has credibly threatened to cut off American access to life-saving medications made only in China. That would be a literal act of war. It's long past time to counter their aggression and expand our medical partnerships with allies like Israel."

The committee also unanimously advanced Sens. Cruz and Bob Menendez's (D-N.J.) Senate resolution (S. Res. 525) expressing continued support for the people of Nicaragua as they fight to restore democracy and urging the administration to use existing sanctions authorities to increase pressure on the Ortega regime.

The resolution calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners who are asymptomatic of the coronavirus against the backdrop of the Ortega regime's failure to adequately address the pandemic. The resolution also urges the U.S. to investigate and hold accountable those responsible for the death of Eddy Montes, a United States citizen and Navy veteran, who was shot and killed while in the custody of the Nicaraguan police at La Modelo Prison on May 16, 2019.

After the vote, Sen. Cruz said:

"This resolution sends a clear message to the international community that the United States continues to stands with the people of Nicaragua in their fight to restore democracy. I will continue working with my colleagues and the administration to apply pressure on the regime until corrupt actors are held accountable and meaningful reforms are made."

Earlier this year, after the passage into law of Sen. Cruz's Nicaraguan Investment Conditionality Act (NICA) establishing measures for securing human rights and accountability in Nicaragua, the Trump administration announced sanctions against the Nicaraguan National Police (NNP), as well as three NNP commissioners, for their involvement in serious human rights abuses.