Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I rise at a time of crisis. For several  months now, our Nation been dealing with two simultaneous crises--a  global health pandemic that has claimed the lives of over 115,000  Americans and over 400,000 people across the globe--and an economic  crisis that has cost over 40 million Americans their jobs. We are also  now dealing with a crisis of racial division and anger over the killing  of George Floyd on Memorial Day. 

  As our Nation reels from the difficulties of the past few months,  it's time to focus on what we can do to recover. One challenge that  we've faced this year is the closures of schools all across the  Country. Suddenly, because of the coronavirus pandemic, over 76 million  American students of all ages were faced with finishing the school year  at home--including over five million students in my home State of  Texas--away from many of the resources that school provides. 

  To say that has been a staggering shift for many students and  families is an understatement. That is why today, I'm introducing a  bill to temporarily expand 529 accounts so that parents of children who  are now learning from home as a result of the coronavirus pandemic can  cover educational expenses such as tuition, books and other  instructional materials, online educational materials, tutoring,  standardized test fees, and educational therapies for students with  disabilities. 

  This bill, the Helping Parents Educate Children During the  Coronavirus Pandemic Act, is a version of a bill I introduced last  year, the Student Empowerment Act, which would allow 100 percent of  American students to use 529 accounts to help pay for K-12 education.  The Helping Parents Educate Children During the Coronavirus Pandemic  Act has the benefits of the Student Empowerment Act, but is tailored to  navigate the educational challenges the coronavirus pandemic poses to  students nationwide. 

  These bills would extend 529 accounts to cover educational expenses  of all sorts, allowing public school families (who do not pay tuition)  to participate. Around 90 percent of America's students attend public  school, so this change would help many Americans afford all the  associated costs of an education. 

  These bills would also make 529 accounts more accessible to low- income and middle-income families, public school families, families who  send their children to religious schools, and homeschool families who  need help paying for their child's K-12 education. 

  We've come a long way in making a quality education attainable for  American students, but we have more to do. That is why I'm working to  help parents, guardians, and students across the country access the  tools they need to continue school at home as long as we have a public  health emergency because of the coronavirus pandemic. 

  In closing, I want to thank the educators and parents who over the  past three months have made education a priority for millions of  American students. Your hard work and dedication to ensuring your  students continue to learn despite the challenges of a global pandemic  is a good example for us all that we must keep going, we must move  forward, and that one day, we will emerge from these challenges  stronger than before. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT