Texas Measles Outbreak


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696063/texas-measles-outbreak


26, 2025]     RFK Jr.'s Leadership Brought an End to the Texas Measles Outbreak                         (By Rep. Jodey Arrington)

The world has witnessed a concerning surge of measles       cases. Europe reported 127,350 cases in 2024--the highest       number recorded on the continent since 1997. In Canada, 4,586       cases have been documented in 2024 and 2025, while Mexico has       confirmed 3,911 cases to date.

And, on Jan. 17, 2025, just three days before President       Donald Trump assumed office, the Houston Health Department       reported two confirmed measles cases, marking the first case       in Texas since 2023. While left-leaning media outlets were       quick to criticize the Trump administration over these cases       in Texas, they remained largely silent about the 383%       nationwide increase in measles cases between 2023 and 2024       during the Biden administration, including Illinois's largest       measles outbreak since 1990, which was linked to a migrant       shelter in Chicago.

In stark contrast, the Trump administration's response to       the measles outbreak, led by Health and Human Services       Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr., met the moment. It was       prompt, aggressive, and wholly effective. And, this week,       thanks to the secretary's leadership and tireless work, Texas       health officials declared the outbreak over.

Kennedy's approach was not a top-down, government-knows-      best strategy where the feds swoop in and usurp the direction       from state and local leaders. Instead, he understands what       too many people in Washington forget: The most effective       solutions come from those closest to the problem and most       accountable to the people. It's with this understanding that       he listened first, acted decisively, and never left our       community's side.

He spoke to leaders at every level public health officials,       healthcare providers, and the community members affected--and       not just once, but daily. I am convinced his personal       commitment and sense of urgency enabled him to break through       the bureaucracy, swiftly marshal the necessary resources, and       successfully end the outbreak.

The secretary used his platform to raise awareness for the       measles outbreak, publicly urging people to take it seriously       and emphasizing the critical role of the measles, mumps, and       rubella vaccine.

He directed the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention       and the Administration for Strategic Preparedness and       Response to work hand-in-glove with Texas health officials to       deploy rapid response teams, give comprehensive support, and       provide 7,000 doses of the MMR vaccine and therapeutic       medications to our local communities. He made sure local       health authorities, providers, and families had the tools and       support they needed, providing prevention, guidance and       establishing a local response network laboratory at Texas       Tech to expedite measles testing in West Texas.

And he engaged the broader public as well. The CDC       accelerated its public reporting of measles cases and       outbreaks so that anyone who visited the CDC's website could       see hot spots of infection. It also posted a ``Be Ready for       Measles toolkit, which provided outbreak response tools and       communication materials for clinicians and the public health       community. What's more, the CDC held biweekly national calls       to share best practices on managing the outbreak for       providers and health departments.

But beyond the policies, beyond the programs, what defined       the secretary's leadership during the measles outbreak was       his personal engagement and genuine compassion for the       families affected. He personally visited the small town of       Seminole, Texas, and he didn't just give its residents       resources. He gave them what they needed most: the confidence       and hope that their nation's healthcare system and their       country would not abandon them. He developed real, meaningful       connections with West Texas families--comforting them,       mourning alongside them, and giving them the encouragement       they needed to persist in the face of this crisis.

This is what good leadership looks like. Not command and       control, but compassion and service. Not someone who thinks       they have all the answers, but someone who seeks first to       understand.

I have never witnessed a leader at his level, a man who       leads an entire national agency, show such humility,       humanity, and heart. Kennedy is not a conventional Cabinet       secretary, and thank God. Because of his unique leadership,       our families are safer, our communities are stronger, and,       together, we are making America healthy again.