Texas Independence Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700314/texas-independence-day


Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, today, Texans celebrate 190 years of  independence. On March 2, 1836, Texans fought bravely for liberty and  for independence from Mexico. Many heroes, including William Barret  Travis, James Bowie, and Davy Crockett, laid down their lives for the  future of the Lone Star State.

It is a longstanding tradition on Texas Independence Day to read  aloud the words of Colonel William Barret Travis, the leader of the  besieged forces at the Alamo. His call for reinforcements reminds us of  the bravery, resilience, and fortitude of those who fought and died for  liberty. And today, I would like to take a moment to read his letter:

To the people of Texas & All Americans in the World:

Fellow citizens & compatriots--I am besieged, by a thousand       or more of the Mexicans under Santa Anna--I have sustained a       continual Bombardment & cannonade for 24 hours & have not       lost a man.

The enemy has demanded a surrender at discretion,       otherwise, the garrison are to be put to the sword, if the       fort is taken--I have answered the demand with a cannon shot,       & our flag still waves proudly from the walls. I shall never       surrender or retreat.

Then, I call on you in the name of Liberty, of patriotism &       everything dear to the American character, to come to our       aid, with all dispatch--The enemy is receiving reinforcements       daily & will no doubt increase to three or four thousand in       four or five days.

If this call is neglected, I am determined to sustain       myself as long as possible & die like a soldier who never       forgets what is due to his own honor & that of his country.

Victory or Death.

Signed, William Barret Travis.

Texans are known for their resilience, work ethic, courage, and  patriotism--qualities forged in sacrifice, sealed in blood, and handed  down by the very man who gave everything for Texas independence.

I would also like to note that Texas' founding father, the George  Washington of Texas, Sam Houston, was born on March 2, 1793, and he  later led the Texans to victory at the Battle of San Jacinto. He left  behind an extraordinary legacy of leadership and sacrifice.

I will close with words of wisdom that Sam Houston shared:

Govern wisely and as little as possible.

Today, as we remember the Alamo and the birth of the Republic of  Texas, our own independent nation for 9 glorious years, we remember the  tremendous bravery of men past, and we renew a promise for the future:  a promise to defend liberty, a promise to stand firm in the face of  adversity, and a promise that the spirit of victory or death will  always live on in the Lone Star State.

To every Texan, I wish you a proud and happy Texas Independence Day.  God bless you.