Women's Healthcare


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I rise today for every child who has been  denied the chance to live; the little boys and the little girls who  never got the chance to breathe a breath of air, to live life; never  got the chance to grow up to be athletes, doctors, poets, or inventors;  never got the chance to live their own unique lives. 

  This year marks the 47th tragic anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the  Supreme Court decision that forced on all 50 States abortion on demand  and has tragically led to the loss of life of over 60 million unborn  children. Since that decision, so much life has been lost. So many  unborn and even newborn babies have suffered. 

  In recent years, we have seen the Democratic Party not listening to  the concerns of a great many people of good will on both sides of the  party but, rather, radicalize. We have seen leading contenders for the  Presidential nomination in the Democratic field declare that pro-life  Democrats are no longer welcome in the party. We have seen far too many  Democrats embrace extreme positions on abortion--abortion up until the  moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that. 

  I think the radicalization of today's Democratic Party was made  crystal clear for a great many Americans with the radio interview that  Virginia Governor Ralph Northam did on January 30 of last year. In that  interview, Governor Northam was speaking in favor of a bill that would  allow abortion when a mother was already in labor. 

  Stop and think about this for a moment. There have been debates about  abortion for a long, long time. A mother in labor, in the process of  delivering a child, this bill would allow a doctor to kill that child  instead of delivering the child in the midst of labor. For a great many  people, even Americans who identify as pro-choice, the idea of killing  a child while the mother is in labor delivering the infant is  horrifying beyond words. But Governor Northam didn't end there. He  wasn't content simply with saying that abortion should be allowed even  in the midst of birth. He went further. He said on that radio  interview:  

       The infant would be delivered. The infant would be kept       comfortable. The infant would be resuscitated if that's what       the mother and the family desired. And then a discussion       would ensue between the physicians and the mother.  

  Now, so nobody is lost on what Governor Northam was saying, he was  describing something that has euphemistically been called post-birth  abortion. He was describing his view of the right way to approach  delivering a child, which is a child who is delivered, who is outside  the womb, who is breathing and crying and living. That is an infant.  And Governor Northam calmly, with virtually no emotion whatsoever,  described comforting that infant and then having a conversation about  whether to deny that child the necessary care to live or simply to  callously let a newborn infant die. 

  For virtually every American, that is a concept that is so extreme,  that is so radical, that--other than elected Democrats who have decided  to embrace a radical view of abortion in all circumstances--almost  every other American would be, rightly, horrified by the notion of a  doctor allowing a newborn infant outside the womb to die. That was  Governor Northam's position. 

  Well, tomorrow the Senate has an opportunity to speak out against  those extreme, radical positions, to say this isn't OK, to draw a line,  to find what should be some degree of common ground. We are going to be  voting on two bills in the Senate tomorrow: the Born-Alive Abortion  Survivors Protection Act and the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection  Act. 

  I am proud to be an original cosponsor of both pieces of legislation.  Those are both commonsense pieces of legislation that would work to  restore fundamental rights for the unborn and for newborn babies. They  are simple pieces of legislation. 

  The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act requires doctors to  provide medical care to infants who survive attempted abortion  procedures. It  would help make sure that, when an infant has already been born, when  the infant is alive, is breathing, is crying, is outside the womb, that  that child receives the medical attention he or she needs. 

  The second bill is the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act that  would ban late-term abortions that result in pain and suffering and  agony for an unborn child. 

  What you will not hear from congressional Democrats is that after 5  months, an unborn child's toes and eyelids and fingers and eyelashes  have already formed. He or she has a heartbeat and can feel pain, and  science confirms this. We know that these late-term abortions, embraced  by more and more radical partisans, produce pain and suffering and  agony. We should not be a part of allowing the deliberate infliction of  pain on a little girl or a little boy. 

  These two proposals, in any sane and rational world, would be agreed  to unanimously. If you look at the last 3 years, we have seen enormous  victories when it has come to defending life, when it has come to  confirming 192 new Federal judges committed to following the law in the  Constitution; when it has come to restricting taxpayer funding of  Planned Parenthood, the largest provider of abortions in this country;  when it has come to defending the religious liberties of Americans all  across this country, including the Little Sisters of the Poor. We are  making major steps in the right direction, but we can go further. We  can agree on these commonsense provisions. We can also test whether  Senate Democrats agree with their colleagues running for President,  whether Senate Democrats agree with the chairman of the Democratic  National Committee, who has said: If you are a pro-life Democrat, get  out of the party; you are not welcome. 

  I can tell you in Texas, I certainly welcome pro-life Democrats to  speak up for their values and defend their values, and we should come  together behind commonsense propositions that say we should not be  committing procedures that result in pain and agony and suffering, that  science demonstrates causes that suffering, and we should not be  allowing newborn infants to die because medical care is denied to those  children. 

  This should bring us together. I urge our colleagues on both sides of  the aisle to stand together for life--every life, as a precious, unique  gift from God. Every life, whether the child has a disability, whether  the child is valued or not, that child should be valued, should be  protected because that child is precious. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT