Improving Interagency Coordination for Pipeline Reviews Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698071/improving-interagency-coordination-for-pipeline-reviews-act


Mr. WEBER of Texas. Gosh, Mr. Speaker, fairy tales begin ``once upon  a time.'' You know how those begin. We are hearing one today right here  in our very presence, saying that somehow the One Big Beautiful Bill  Act has caused this problem.

Mr. Speaker, the plain and simple fact is that America's population  is growing, our economy is growing, and natural gas already provides  more than 40 percent of the electricity Americans rely on every day.

Mr. Speaker, during the time period of 2013 to 2021, several pipeline  projects were canceled, leading to a pipeline capacity growth of only  26 percent. Let that sink in. Meanwhile, natural gas demand has  increased by 49 percent. Do that math.

This trend will be compounded if there are not statutory reforms. It  is absolutely dishonest to try to blame LNG for this. America can't run  without energy, Mr. Speaker. Like it or not, a lot of that energy comes  from natural gas.

Listen to this. When we stopped building pipelines between 2013 and  2021, over 25 million homes were put at risk. That is exactly what H.R.  3668 fixes. This bill clarifies that the Federal Energy Regulatory  Commission is the leading agency for coordinating the environmental  review process for interstate natural gas pipelines. It requires other  Federal and State agencies to align their reviews with FERC's timeline.

It is written with a clear objective, reducing delays and approving  coordination. Did I mention that gas has really needed to be given to a  lot more American households?

Here is what we are going to do. We have already seen what happens  when we don't build. Again, pipeline cancellations put over 25 million,  with an m, homes at risk. Do the math. With the average 3.15 people in  that household, that is nearly 79 million, with an m, 79 million people  affected. Mr. Speaker, that doesn't even account for higher prices or  the hit to our energy security or the actual possibility that our  energy security will be severely damaged.

Mr. Speaker, if we want reliable power and lower costs, we have got  to stop telling fairy tales, and we have got to start doing. That is  exactly what my friend and colleague, Congressman Hudson's, bill does.  I urge my colleagues to support it.