Providing for Consideration of H.R. Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Affordable Housing Over Mandating Efficiency Standards Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698638/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-saving-homeowners-from-overregulation-with-exceptional-rinsing-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-affordable-housing-over-mandating-efficiency-standards-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of House Resolution 977, the  combined rule for the consideration of H.R. 4593, H.R. 5184, and H.R.  6938.

Mr. Speaker, it gets fun listening to the fairy tales from the other  side from time to time. I have to give them that.

This rule advances the combined appropriations package that includes  critical investments for Texas' 14th Congressional District, which I am  proud to represent. My district is home to some of the largest  refineries in the United States, three LNG gas export terminals,  numerous petrochemical facilities, and vital energy infrastructure that  keeps our Nation running.

The energy produced in southeast Texas, Mr. Speaker, moves across  America and to our allies through pipelines, trains, trucks, and even  cargo ships. Federal provisions in this bill ensure that energy  continues to flow reliably and securely.

Funding for the coastal Texas protection and restoration project,  more locally known as the coastal spine project, is included in this  underlying bill. This critical project focuses on flood damage  reduction and environmental enhancement as well as economic resiliency.  It could save $2.3 billion, with a b, annually by reducing flood damage  and improving over 6,000 acres of coastal marsh and land to help  mitigate storm surges.

Just as importantly, it protects 30 percent of the Nation's refining  capacity, 42 percent of specialty chemical feedstock, and 80 percent of  our military-grade fuel supply.

The bill also provides over $9 million to upgrade the Sabine-Neches  Waterway, which moves over 194 million tons of cargo each year and is  projected to exceed 210 million tons in the near future. This waterway  supports approximately 375,000 jobs.

Mr. WEBER of Texas. It is indispensable to America's economy and  energy security.

Mr. Speaker, this appropriations package delivers real results not  just for southeast Texas but for the Nation. I urge my colleagues to  support the rule and this critical legislation.