Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Review of Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources As Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691596/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-review-of-final-rule-reclassification-of-major-sources-as-area-sources-under-section-112-of-the-clean-air-act


Mr. WEBER of Texas. Pursuant to House Resolution 426, I call up the  joint resolution (S.J. Res. 31) providing for congressional disapproval  under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted  by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to ``Review of Final  Rule Reclassification of Major Sources as Area Sources Under Section  112 of the Clean Air Act'', and ask for its immediate consideration in  the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. WEBER of Texas.  Res. 31.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of S.J. Res. 31, a  resolution that pushes back on yet another outrageous overreach by the  Biden-Harris EPA which spent the last 4 years tying the hands of  America's energy producers and undermining our position as a global  energy leader.

The latest example is this joint resolution providing for  congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States  Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency  relating to Review of Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources as  Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act.

This commonsense resolution, led by my good friend, Senator Curtis of  Utah, and carried in the House by my good friend, Representative  Fedorchak, along with support from Representatives Balderson and Allen,  pushes back on a deeply flawed EPA rule that is yet another blow to  American energy producers and manufacturers, as well as small  businesses.

What does this rule do? This rule shackles businesses with burdensome  red tape under what is called the ``once in, always in'' policy. That  means once a facility is deemed a major source of emissions, even if it  invests heavily in modern equipment and successfully lowers its  emissions, it is still locked into that stricter classification  forever, period. They are not given credit for cleaning up their act.  There are no incentives given to improve. There is just more  bureaucracy.

Mr. Speaker, let's be clear. This rule is anti-innovation, anti- investment, and anti-American.

Mr. Speaker, repealing this misguided rule would do what we should  have done all along: encourage facilities to reduce emissions by giving  them a path to reclassify as area sources once they meet that  threshold. That is not only good for industry, it is good for our  environment. It is a true win-win, Mr. Speaker.

Now, here is some background. Under section 112 of the Clean Air Act,  facilities that emit over 10 tons of a single hazardous pollutant, or  25 tons of a combination, are considered major sources and hit with the  strictest regulations and nonstop monitoring. What about those below  that threshold? They are area sources with more reasonable  requirements.

However, the ``once in, always in'' rule, cooked up during the  Clinton administration, locked companies into major source status  forever, even if they had dramatically reduced their emissions. That is  just plain wrong.

Thankfully, in 2020, the Trump administration corrected this  nonsense. They rightly said that the Clean Air Act doesn't prohibit  facilities from reclassifying if and when they reduce emissions below  the legal threshold.

Do you know what, Mr. Speaker? That rule actually worked. It  encouraged improvements, and businesses responded.

Under the Biden-Harris rule, companies have absolutely no incentive  to decrease their emissions.

We should encourage industries, Mr. Speaker, to lower their emissions  and allow them the possibility of reclassifying as an area source if  they can successfully reduce their emissions.

U.S. emissions have already decreased over the past two decades, even  as our energy production has hit record highs. That is not government  regulation, that is American innovation.

American industry relied on the Trump rule to make progress in  reducing emissions. Yet, under this new EPA rule, companies that did  the right thing under the Trump-era guidance, those that cut emissions,  are actually being punished. That is not environmentalism; that is  government overreach plain and simple.

Let me be clear, Mr. Speaker. This resolution does not strip the EPA  of its authority to regulate air pollutants. It doesn't. It simply  returns us to the commonsense, pro-growth, pro-clean-air policy of the  Trump administration. If a business steps up and reduces its emissions,  it ought to be rewarded, not handcuffed.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to stand with the American worker,  stand with American innovation, and vote ``yes'' on S.J. Res. 31. I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her  remarks, and I want to highlight one line she said: American technology  and innovation has allowed us to reduce emissions more than any other  country since 2005. That is important.

Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this is amazing to me, quite  frankly. I served 4 years in the Texas legislature, and we were busy  with catalytic scrubbers on all the industry that we had  making sure that Texans had clean energy. We care about the  environment. We care about people's health. We care about the future.  We care about the economy.

It is a little bit curious to me to hear our friends across the aisle  say that we don't care about any of that stuff. In Texas, we have a  saying, Mr. Speaker: It just ain't so.

Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I am kind of amused listening to our friends from the  other side, all of the facts and the things that they are bringing up.  You know, it is not, Mr. Speaker, that they are ignorant, it is just  that so much of what they know ain't so.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on S.J. Res.  31, and I yield back the balance of my time.