Reliable Power Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698274/reliable-power-act


Mr. WEBER of Texas. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 951,  I call up the bill (H.R. 3616) to require the Federal Energy Regulatory  Commission to review regulations that may affect the reliable operation  of the bulk-power system, and ask for its immediate consideration in  the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. WEBER of Texas.  3616.

Mr. WEBER of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3616, the Reliable Power  Act, sponsored by my colleague from Ohio's 12th Congressional District,  Mr. Troy Balderson.

Put simply, this bill protects reliability that is critical to the  economy as well as public health.

The bill protects the public from future Federal rules that would  force the premature retirement of power generation that is absolutely  essential to keeping our grid reliable.

Madam Speaker, our Nation today is confronting a reliability crisis.  The North American Electric Reliability Corporation, which is the  Nation's electric reliability organization, shows vast regions of our  Nation are at risk for blackouts when weather events and peak demand  collide. It is only going to get worse.

The Energy and Commerce Committee has repeatedly heard from grid  authorities about the massive number of premature retirements of  baseload power in our very own electric system.  These retirements take much-needed energy out of the grid system  without adequate replacement of the types of baseload power needed to  maintain reliability.

The numbers are staggering, Madam Speaker. Over the next decade,  115GW of power is expected to come offline while 151GW of demand is  needed to come online. Do that math.

For too long, radical green activists in the Obama and Biden  administrations were able to hijack environmental agencies with no  authority over the grid to force shutdowns of power plants without  regard to the impacts on that very reliability I said we depend on.

Madam Speaker, if the Biden EPA's radical clean power plan 2.0 had  gone forward, it would have shut down most of the Nation's coal-fired  power and threatened the closing of a substantial number of existing  gas generation plants to disastrous effect.

We cannot--we must not--let Federal agencies with no authority over  electric reliability undermine that very vital electric service.  Congress already established the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  as the reliability authority, but when FERC is needed most, there is no  requirement that its expert views should be accommodated. This bill  fixes that. Let me repeat: This bill fixes that.

During periods of increased reliability risks, FERC, informed by the  technical expertise of grid operators and NERC, can require changes  before a rule can be finalized. FERC will not stop agencies from  pursuing their policy responsibilities effectively. It just protects  reliable power.

The legislation is necessary to provide a mechanism to adjust Federal  rules to ensure they protect electric reliability, which is so  essential, Mr. Speaker, to the economy, our public health, and, yes,  our safety.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3616, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. WEBER of Texas.

Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Ohio's  12th Congressional District, Troy Balderson, for sponsoring this  important legislation.

H.R. 3616, the Reliable Power Act, provides a critical tool to  protect the public from future Federal rules that would force the  premature retirement of power generation that is absolutely essential  to keeping our grid reliable.

The Reliable Power Act, Mr. Speaker, is about safety. It is about  security. It is also, quite frankly, about affordability. There is  nothing more expensive, Mr. Speaker, than a blackout, a rolling  blackout. I know.

There is nothing more costly than green visions that drive out  affordable power for expensive overbuilding of weather-dependent  generation and backup power. That is why these electric bills are  rising.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot afford to let radical rules destroy  reliability in our great Nation. H.R. 3616 provides a way to adjust  proposed rules to absolutely ensure good Federal policies while  protecting electric reliability. A ``yes'' vote on H.R. 3616 is a vote  for that kind of reliable power. There is nothing more important for  our electric policy than that, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R.  3616, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.