Sharia-Free America


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701406/sharia-free-america


Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.  He is on the right track. When I was in the Texas House, we were  already being concerned about that.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today on something that ought to go without  saying, but here we are. In the United States of America, as my  colleague so eloquently pointed out, there is one law of the land: the  Constitution of the United States, period--not foreign law, not some  imported systems, not, if I can be a little backward, not nothing else,  Mr. Speaker, not anything else, period.

That is why I am proud to stand with my fellow Texan, Congressman  Keith Self, and support the Sharia-Free America Caucus.

Let me tell you, Mr. Speaker, this is not new for me. I already said  back in the Texas House in 2009 through 2012 that it was a problem. We  knew it. I tried to get a bill in that actually the chairman of the  committee wouldn't take, stating that no court in the State of Texas  could use sharia law as a legal basis, none. Yet, he said: Oh, you  don't need to fight that battle yet.

That was in 2019. I am afraid we have waited way too long. I led the  fight against sharia law back then from ever taking root in our courts.  I am so glad that Keith Self, along with Chip Roy, has put this caucus  together.

I knew where it was headed back then, and here we are today. Now, we  are seeing examples that should wake the folks up who claim to be woke.

In Irving, Texas, Mr. Speaker, you see a neighborhood developed by  Hamra Homes with street names like Ali Akbar Court, Salma Jameel Court,  and Hasina Drive, all built around a mosque.

Folks can live however they want to and however they choose. That is  America. But hear me clearly: You don't bring a separate legal system  into the United States of America, not on my watch, not now, not ever.

We are one nation under one Constitution with one standard of law  that applies equally to every single American. That is what the Sharia- Free America Caucus is all about. It is about drawing a line, standing  firm, and saying that we will not compromise on the foundation of this  country--not now, not then, and not ever.

We are founded on Judeo-Christian principles, and that is what we are  going to keep it on. We will defend our Constitution, and we will keep  America America.

God bless Texas. God bless the United States of America. God bless  our caucus.