Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697091/unlocking-our-domestic-lng-potential-act-of-2025


Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of  H.R. 1949, the Unlocking our Domestic LNG Potential Act, led by my  friend and fellow Texan, Representative Pfluger.

For years, America has been blessed with abundant natural gas. In  Texas, we have been at the heart of it all. We are the world's number  one producer of oil and natural gas and the top exporter of LNG. That  didn't happen by accident. It happened because American workers,  American innovators, and American energy producers were finally  unleashed.

Under the previous administration, we launched an indefensible freeze  on LNG export permits, a politically motivated blockade that put our  economy at risk, undermined jobs, and was just simply wrong for global  security.

That was wrong for Texans, wrong for America, and wrong for our  allies working to wean themselves off of Russian gas.

H.R. 1949 fixes that. This bill removes outdated restrictions on  natural gas imports and exports and puts decisionmaking authority back  where it belongs--with FERC, not some bureaucrats using climate reviews  or climate change as a backdoor veto.

Some of you have seen that even the Microsoft founder, Bill Gates, is  now backing up on his climate claims. This is ridiculous.

This bill restores certainty for developers who have already  committed more than $70 billion--with a b--in new investments since  President Trump took office.

It strengthens our hand abroad by ensuring our allies that they can  rely on American energy instead of their adversaries'. Most  importantly, it reinforces a simple truth: Energy security is national  security.

In southeast Texas, we understand that better than anybody. We  produce it. We refine it. We ship it. We keep America moving every  single day.

H.R. 1949 is pro-jobs, pro-growth, pro-ally, and proudly pro-American  energy. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1949 and keep America the  world's energy leader.