Cape Fox Land Entitlement Finalization Act of 2025


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2815) to provide equitable treatment for the people of the  Village Corporation established for the Native Village of Saxman,  Alaska, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2815

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Cape Fox Land Entitlement       Finalization Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Cape fox.--The term ``Cape Fox'' means the Cape Fox       Village Corporation, a Village Corporation for the Native       Village of Saxman, Alaska, organized pursuant to the Alaska       Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).

(2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the       approximately 180 acres of surface land within the Tongass       National Forest in the State of Alaska, as generally depicted       on the Map.

(3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Cape       Fox Village Corporation Final Selection'' and dated December       18, 2023.

(4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior.       SEC. 3. WAIVER OF CORE TOWNSHIP REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN LAND.

(a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 16(b) of the       Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1615(b)), Cape       Fox shall not be required to select or receive conveyance of       the approximately 185 acres of unconveyed land described in       subsection (b) located within the township in which the       Native Village of Saxman, Alaska, is located.

(b) Land Described.--The land referred to in subsection (a)       is as follows:

(1) Approximately 40 acres in T. 74 S., R.90 E., sec. 10,       SWNE, Copper River Meridian.

(2) Approximately 144.57 acres in T. 75 S., R.91 E., sec.       1, lots 1, 3, and 4, Copper River Meridian.       SEC. 4. SELECTION OUTSIDE EXTERIOR SELECTION BOUNDARY.

(a) Selection and Conveyance of Surface Estate.--Not later       than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, if Cape       Fox submits to the Secretary a written notice of selection of       the Federal land, the Secretary shall, on receiving that       written notice, convey the Federal land to Cape Fox.

(b) Conveyance of Subsurface Estate.--On conveyance to Cape       Fox of the surface estate to the Federal land under       subsection (a), the Secretary shall convey to Sealaska       Corporation the subsurface estate to that Federal land.

(c) Timing.--It is the intent of Congress that the       Secretary complete the conveyances to Cape Fox and Sealaska       Corporation under subsections (a) and (b), respectively, as       soon as practicable after the date on which the Secretary       receives a written notice of the selection of Cape Fox under       subsection (a), but not later than 180 days after the date on       which the Secretary receives that written notice.

(d) Entitlement Fulfilled.--The conveyance of Federal land       to Cape Fox and the subsurface interest in the Federal land       to Sealaska Corporation under subsections (a) and (b),       respectively, shall be considered to fulfill the entitlement       of--

(1) Cape Fox under section 16 of the Alaska Native Claims       Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1615); and

(2) Sealaska Corporation to any subsurface interest in the       Federal land under section 14(f) of that Act (43 U.S.C.       1613(f)).       SEC. 5. PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT.

The conveyance of the Federal land under section 4 shall be       subject to the reservation of a public easement under section       17(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.       1616(b)) to allow for access to National Forest System land       further inland on Revillagigedo Island from the George Inlet.       SEC. 6. VALID EXISTING RIGHTS.

Unless otherwise agreed to by the Secretary, the Secretary       of Agriculture, and Cape Fox, the       conveyances under this legislation shall be subject to any       valid existing rights, reservations, rights-of-way, and other       encumbrances of third parties in, to, or on the Federal land       as of the date of enactment of this Act.

Mr. STAUBER.  2815, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2815, the Cape Fox Land Entitlement Finalization  Act of 2025, introduced by Representative Begich of Alaska, would  finalize the Cape Fox Corporation's remaining Alaska Native Claims  Settlement Act, or ANCSA, land entitlement. In addition, this  legislation will resolve land management issues tied to the Mahoney  Lake power project.

ANCSA was enacted by Congress to settle the aboriginal land claims of  Alaska Natives. Under ANCSA, Alaska Native Corporations were  established to receive land under the settlement and disburse money to  Alaska Natives. The Cape Fox Corporation, or CFC, has yet to receive  their full conveyance, with 180 acres remaining.

The Bureau of Land Management is responsible for conveying the  remaining acres to CFC and has proposed specific acreage to complete  the entitlement. However, CFC has rejected the BLM's proposal, as the  proposed lands were outside of their core township, noncontiguous with  their existing land holdings, and of limited economic value.

CFC has identified 180 acres of land between their existing parcels,  which would connect the land and complete the settlement. The acres in  this legislation would also enable the development of Mahoney Lake  power projects. CFC holds a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  license and an easement for a power line and road corridor nearby. They  also own the land adjacent to the substation.

Power demand for the area exceeds available supply. In fact, in 2024,  all available power was online, and it still was not enough. This  legislation takes steps to increase the availability of affordable  power for the area.

This legislation would not only finalize CFC's remaining ANCSA land  conveyance, but it also resolves land management issues related to the  power project.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Mr. Begich for his work on behalf of his  constituency. I urge support for this bill, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2815 finalizes CFC's outstanding ANCSA  land conveyance while working to alleviate future land concerns with  the Mahoney Lake power project. This legislation has the support of  various Alaska organizations, government representatives, and impacted  groups.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Begich for his hard work on this bill. I  urge passage of H.R. 2815, and I yield back the balance of my time.