Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker. I have a speech written for this today. I  am going to speak from the heart.

As one of just a few people that have represented their constituents  in Congress, I was one of the few that wore the uniform. I was one of  the few that was shot while off-duty. I was one of the few that had a  gun malfunction when it was pointed at my head. I was one of the few  that ran into the fire. I was one of the few that was on our tackle  response team.

When they talk about tasers, it is a tool that we can use in law  enforcement to save lives, not only the officer, not only the subject  or the suspect, but bystanders.

For my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to try to defend the  philosophy that we don't need those or this piece of legislation that  involves the tax code isn't legit, it is just atrocious.

Here is a list of people that support it: The African American Mayors  Association. The Hispanic American Police Command Officers Association,  the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the Fraternal Order  of Police, Major County Sheriffs of America, Peace Officers Research  Association of California, and so many others.

You can ask every law enforcement officer on the streets of America  whether they want this to move forward and pass and become law. The  answer is yes because the technology continues to grow and grow.

When I first started in law enforcement, we had one shot at the  taser. When we would cross draw, flip the switch up, bring it up,  taser, taser, taser. We only had one. Later on in my career, we had two  options. This gives us, in some cases, 10 options to subdue a subject  that is violent and is going to either harm the officer, bystanders,  or, more importantly, themselves.

Cross draw, flip up, taser, taser, taser.

This is a good bill, and my colleagues on the other sides of the  aisle know it  is a good bill. In fact, one of the cosponsors won't even come and talk  about it because his majority, Mr. Speaker, doesn't want it. This is  the extension of defund the police. I have had it.

We need to protect law enforcement. We are the ones who call them  when we are in harm. They come to the fight. They will be there when we  call 911.

Yet my colleagues on the other side of the aisle won't support  something that defends the cops and helps them with another tool on  their tool belt to make sure they are safe, the subject is safe, and  any bystanders are safe. It is unconscionable.

This is a great bill. I wholeheartedly support it, and I hope my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle will too.