Mental Health in Aviation Act of 2025


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, currently, pilots and air traffic  controllers who seek mental health care are unfairly penalized. While  aviation professionals are mandated to report if they seek mental  health care, once they take that step, they are faced with delays,  confusion, and broad regulations to return to work. This often means  that relatively minor mental health concerns result in long wait times  and derailed careers for safe and well-trained pilots and air traffic  controllers.

If we don't change how we handle mental health in aviation, then we  will exacerbate a culture of silence.

When I was a law enforcement officer, we, too, faced a culture of  silence. During a shift, we would see the worst of humanity, and then  we went home to our loved ones and pretended everything was okay. That  is because if you didn't, Mr. Speaker, you thought you would come off  as weak or unable to handle the job.

As a former police officer who required professional help after a  specific call for service, I understand the importance of seeking help.  It is not a sign of weakness.

Like law enforcement officers, our pilots and air traffic controllers  cannot fear that their livelihoods are at stake for taking care of  themselves. These efforts are what keep skies safe in the first place.

In December 2023, the FAA recognized the need to reform its current  policies and established the Mental Health and Aviation Medical  Clearances Aviation Rulemaking Committee, or ARC, to identify barriers  to mental health care for aviators and present recommendations to the  FAA to address these challenges.

The implementation of these recommendations was directed in section  411 of the FAA reauthorization bill we passed last year. Unfortunately,  there was no required timeline for implementation, which is why I have  introduced legislation with Congressman Casten, the Mental Health in  Aviation Act, to ensure the timely implementation of section 411.

We want our pilots to be at the top of their game, and taking care of  their mental health is critical to achieving that goal.

Mr. Speaker, I want to personally thank my colleague and friend,  Representative Casten of Illinois, for his tremendous and strong  leadership on this piece of legislation, and I ask all of my colleagues  to join me in supporting this legislation.