Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 3898, the  PERMIT Act.

Our permitting system is a great burden to our Nation. Permitting  delays infrastructure projects indefinitely and stops us from bringing  critical energy sources online. It also deters investment in our  communities. Make no mistake: Permitting is holding back America.

Mr. Chair, H.R. 3898, the Promoting Efficient Review for Modern  Infrastructure Today Act, also known as the PERMIT Act, aims to unleash  the American economy. It is a package of commonsense reforms that will  reduce regulatory burdens, establish certainty, and increase  transparency in our permitting system.

This bill will, in turn, create opportunities for homebuilders, our  farmers, loggers, and our small business owners. It will entice them to  invest in projects that help our local communities grow.

Mr. Chair, I will highlight section 12 of H.R. 3898. Section 12 is  the language of my bill, the Reducing Permitting Uncertainty Act.

Section 404(c) of the Clean Water Act allows the EPA to veto a  dredge-and-fill permit. However, under Biden, the EPA took it upon  itself to proactively reject permits and retroactively take away  permits.

In a country of due process, it is absurd that a government can  dictate whether a project is good or bad even before an application is  filed. The fact that the government can waltz in and shut down years of  hard work is staggering.

This section of H.R. 3898 is not a dramatic departure from the status  quo. It clarifies timelines and brings certainty. When an application  is pending, the EPA can determine whether or not to veto. It is simple.

It does not alter the process, nor does it deprive the EPA of its  right to veto. It returns our process to one based on science and facts  rather than politics.

Mr. Chair, I thank Congressman Collins for his efforts on this  package of reforms, and I look forward to supporting it.