Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.J. Res.  140, to reverse Public Land Order 7917, which enacted the Biden  administration's dangerous mining ban in northern Minnesota.

The district I am proud to represent, Minnesota's Eighth  Congressional District, is blessed with an abundance of mineral wealth.  On the Iron Range in northern Minnesota, we have been responsibly  mining for 145 years. We mined the iron ore that won us two world wars  and currently mine the taconite that is used to make 80 percent of this  country's domestically produced steel.

Before Biden's mining ban, we had the opportunity to mine the copper,  nickel, cobalt, and other critical minerals that are necessary for this  country to compete and win in the 21st century. That is because  northern Minnesota is home to the Duluth Complex, the largest untapped  copper-nickel deposit in the entire world. It is home to one-third of  our country's copper reserves, 95 percent of our nickel reserves, 88  percent of our cobalt reserves, and 75 percent of our other platinum  group metals.

Public Land Order 7917 locked up the Duluth Complex and ended this  opportunity that we had. This PLO withdrew 225,504 acres--that is  nearly a quarter of a million acres--in the Superior National Forest,  which is a working industrial forest where timber harvesting and mining  are desired activities. This ban was a 20-year ban, where, I will note,  again, the Forest Service plan states mining and timber harvesting are  desired activities.

This PLO sacrificed thousands of good-paying union jobs that would  support families for generations, along with billions of dollars of  revenue for our schools, State and Federal governments, and, most  importantly, our Nation's mineral security.

It didn't only block our access to precious critical minerals, Mr.  Speaker, it also cut us off from one of the largest and most  concentrated deposits of helium, a gas that is necessary in everything  from medical and manufacturing equipment to state-of-the-art defense  systems. Just like our critical minerals, we are blocked from  responsibly accessing the helium, making the United States more  dependent on foreign imports and increasing Russia's share of global  helium markets.

When issuing this ban, the Biden administration even went so far as  to  state that its purpose was to prevent mineral and geothermal  exploration and development. When former Secretary of the Interior Deb  Haaland testified before the Committee on Appropriations following the  withdrawal, she stated: I didn't think there were any critical minerals  there.

The Secretary of the Interior had no idea that the biggest copper- nickel find in the world was in northeastern Minnesota, where she  banned mining. It was a dangerous, purely political decision that  disregarded the science and the facts.

Under the Federal Lands Policy and Management Act, or FLPMA, the  Department of the Interior is required to notify Congress of public  land orders impacting in excess of 5,000 acres. The Biden  administration failed to properly transmit Public Land Order 7917 to  Congress when it was finalized in January 2023.

Public Land Order 7917 implemented a broad policy that hinders access  to American resources and is wholly detrimental to our Nation's  national and mineral security. It is exactly the kind of action  Congress intended to review under the Congressional Review Act.

H.J. Res. 140 would overturn this mining ban under the CRA and allow  important proposed mining and helium development projects to continue  through the regulatory and permitting process, which they will have to  complete at both the State and Federal levels before moving forward.

Mr. Speaker, this CRA will not green-light any proposed project. All  it does is remove the dangerous, misguided ban that stops us from  considering any project. This ban disregarded the science. It  disregarded the facts. Lifting this ban will simply allow the science  and the facts to prevail.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.J. Res. 140, and I  include in the Record a copy of Public Land Order No. 7917.                         DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                         Bureau of Land Management               [LLES960000.L14400000.ET0000.234; MNES-059784]   Public Land Order No.7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake,                        and Saint Louis Counties, MN

AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management.

ACTION: Public Land Order.

SUMMARY: This Order withdraws approximately 225,504 acres       of National Forest System lands in Cook, Lake, and Saint       Louis counties, Minnesota, from disposition under the United       States mineral and geothermal leasing laws, for a period of       20 years, subject to valid existing rights, to protect and       preserve the fragile and vital social and natural resources,       ecological integrity, and wilderness values in the Rainy       River Watershed, the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness       (BWCAW), the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Mining       Protection Area (MPA), and the 1854 Ceded Territory of the       Lake Superior Chippewa in northeastern Minnesota from the       potential adverse effects of mineral and geothermal       exploration and development.

DATES: This Order takes effect on [Insert Date of       Publication in the Federal Register]

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: F. David Radford, Bureau       of Land Management (BLM) Eastern States Office, during       regular business hours, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through       Friday, except holidays. Individuals in the United States who       are deaf, deafblind, hard of hearing, or have a speech       disability may dial 711 (TTY, TDD, or TeleBraille) to access       telecommunications relay services. Individuals outside the       United States should use the relay services offered within       their country to make international calls to the point of       contact in the United States.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The National Forest System Lands       described in this Order are within Lake, Cook, and Saint       Louis counties, Minnesota. This Order does not apply to non-      Federal interests within the boundaries of the area described       herein. If the non-Federal interests within the boundaries of       the area described in this Order are subsequently acquired by       the United States, the non-Federal interests will become       subject to this withdrawal.                                    ORDER

By virtue of the authority vested in the Secretary of the       Interior by Section 204(c) of the Federal Land Policy and       Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. 1714(c), it is ordered as       follows:

1. Subject to valid existing rights, the National Forest       System lands, and all non-Federal lands that are subsequently       acquired by the Federal government, within the Townships       identified below, as depicted in the attached map, are hereby       withdrawn from disposition under the United States mineral       and geothermal leasing laws, including the Mineral Leasing       Act of 1920 (30 U.S.C. 18 et seq., as amended), the       Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.), the       Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands of 1947 (30 U.S.C. 351       et seq., as amended), Section 402 of the President's       Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1946, 16 U.S.C. 520, and 16       U.S.C. 508b, in order to protect and preserve the fragile and       vital social and natural resources, ecological integrity, and       wilderness values in the Rainy River Watershed, the Boundary       Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, the Mining Protection Area, and       the 1854 Ceded Territory of the Chippewa Bands in       northeastern Minnesota from adverse effects of mineral and       geothermal exploration and development. The purpose of the       withdrawal is also to protect the health, traditional       cultural values, and subsistence-based lifestyle of the       Tribes that rely on resources in the region, such as wild       rice, which are particularly susceptible to adverse impacts       associated with mineral exploration and development. The       Federal lands would remain subject to laws authorizing the       disposal of mineral materials, as defined by 36 CFR 228,       subpart C.            National Forest System Lands--Superior National Forest

Fourth Principal Meridian, Minnesota; Tps. 61 and 62 N., R.       5 W.; Tps. 60 to 62 N., R. 6 W.; Tps. 59 to 61 N., R. 7 W.;       Tps. 59 to 61 N., R. 8 W.; Tps. 58 to 61 N., R. 9 W.; Tps. 57       to 62 N., R. 10 W.; Tps. 57 to 63 N., R. 11 W. Tp. 59 N., R.       12 W.; Tps. 61 to 63 N., R. 12 W.; Tps. 61 to 63 N., R. 13 W.

Further information on the project is available at BLM's       ePlanning site at https://eplanning.blm.gov/eplanning-ui/  project/2022642/510 or at the USFS Superior National Forest,       Duluth, Minnesota.

2. The withdrawal made by this Order does not alter the       applicability of laws governing the use of National Forest       System lands other than the geothermal and mineral leasing       laws.

3. This withdrawal will expire 20 years from the effective       date of this order unless, as a result of a review conducted       before the expiration date pursuant to Section 204(f) of the       Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C.       1714(f), the Secretary determines that the withdrawal shall       be extended.

(Authority: 43 CFR 2310)                                                        Deb Haaland                                         Secretary of the Interior.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, it won't surprise you that the  Representative from that area supports this resolution. My colleagues  and friends across the aisle, even from my great State of Minnesota,  mention mining in the Boundary Waters.

Mr. Speaker, for the umpteenth time: There will be no mining in the  Boundary Waters. There will be no mining in the buffer zones around the  Boundary Waters.

Mr. Speaker, that was settled in 1978. Then-Democratic Congressman  Jim Oberstar said: Okay, if you are going to make the wilderness area,  do not take our livelihoods away, which was timber harvesting and  mining.

These are good mining job. Mr. Speaker, according to 2023 statistics,  the average miner in the State of Minnesota makes $115,000, and the  seasonal tourist employee makes $35,000.

Unions, LIUNA, NABtu, operating engineers, the Iron Range, and  building and construction trades all support this project. These are  good union jobs. By the way, there is a project labor agreement. Three  million work hours, Mr. Speaker, are going to go into any proposed  mine. This is all union work for all my constituents in northeastern  Minnesota so we can keep our schools open, so we can keep our economy  going.

By the way, every school district benefits from mining in the State  of Minnesota. These acquired Federal lands, through the life of any  proposed mine, will bring $1.8 billion, Mr. Speaker, $1.8 billion in  Federal royalties. Over the life of the mine, that is about $800  million in Federal taxes.

When my colleagues across the aisle say that it is not going to do  anything, I just named a great portion and a benefit.

By the way, I go up to the Boundary Waters. I canoe there, I fish  there, and I recreate there. We are not mining in the Boundary Waters.  That is a falsity. That is not true. That has been misrepresented for a  lot of years. Mr. Speaker, in the State of Minnesota, we have a saying:  It is better in our backyard. It is better in our backyard.

We are not going to use child slave labor like over in Congo. One- third of the world's cobalt comes from child slave labor, forced slave  labor. We have 88 percent of the reserves right in that complex.

By the way, Mr. Speaker, this Congressional Review Act doesn't  approve or disapprove any mining. It reverses the mining ban, the  dangerous mining ban, that the Biden administration put forward under  Secretary Haaland. By the way, Mr. Zinke said she couldn't name one  critical mineral in the mine, yet it is the biggest untapped copper- nickel find in the world.

We will not rely on China or other adversarial nations. We can do it.  This can be a win-win-win. If anybody knows how to mine, it is the  Minnesota miner. It is better in our backyard than China, Russia, or  other adversarial nations.

Minnesota has been mining for 145 years. We know how to do it. Mr.  Speaker, it is better in our backyard where our environmental and our  labor standards are met or exceeded and our State permitting is met or  exceeded.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I said it: Would it surprise you that the  Representative from the district supports the resolution?

I talked about jobs and the economy. I am going to reiterate: NABTU,  the Operating Engineers, Teamsters, and the Iron Range Building and  Construction Trades have 3 million work hours, with an average mine  salary of $115,000. This is good for my constituents.

As we go forward, I want to reiterate to my colleagues: This CRA does  not approve any mine. The CRA simply removes the withdrawal. It  reverses the dangerous withdrawal that the Biden administration put  forth for purely political reasons. They stated in their reasoning that  it was to prevent mining. The Secretary, again, when asked said: I  didn't think there were critical minerals there.

In the biggest copper-nickel find in the world, she signs the PLO  that removes mining in the Superior National Forest, where timber  harvesting and mining are desired activities.

Democratic Congressman Jim Oberstar was so far ahead of his time.  When the wilderness was enacted, he said: Okay, if you are going to  enact the wilderness, don't take our livelihoods away. He was so far  ahead of his time.

Today, we are fighting that fight. I am fighting for my constituents.  I am fighting for our economy. I am fighting for our community, our  technology, and our national security. It is worth it. It is deeply  worth it.