Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the CRA  resolution introduced by my good friend and colleague Representative  Begich. This resolution overturns the Biden administration's actions to  prevent the great people of Alaska from accessing and responsibly  developing their abundant oil and gas resources on the North Slope.

Yet again, these actions were just another part of the Democrat and  President Biden's anywhere but America, any worker but American agenda.

This was put out by the Biden administration, Mr. Speaker, on  December 8, mere weeks before the transition to the Trump  administration.

Last Congress I was proud to introduce the Alaska's Right to Produce  Act which reversed many of these same anti-American energy policies of  the Biden administration and passed the House with bipartisan support.

Alaska is blessed with a tremendous wealth of natural resources. In  fact, when Alaska was admitted to the Union, there was a specific  condition laid out that the new State would develop these abundant  natural resources for the benefit of all Alaskans and all Americans.

The Biden administration took step after step to block the Alaskan  people from developing these resources. The Biden administration levied  more sanctions on the State of Alaska than they did on Iran. Congress  time and time again has passed laws to encourage and even require oil  and gas leasing and development in the 10-02 area of ANWR. The Biden  administration's Record of Decision runs completely counter to the laws  that Congress has enacted, and they played games to discourage  development like only offering unfavorable acreage in their lease sale.

These policies run counter to the wishes of the Alaska Natives across  the North Slope of Alaska. I had the honor of leading a bipartisan  delegation of my colleagues on the Natural Resources Committee to the  North Slope last year to visit with these Alaska Natives and see the  responsible oil and gas operations firsthand.

These individuals depend on revenues from oil and gas development for  their everyday lives. In fact, Alaska Natives who are enrolled  shareholders of the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation collect nearly  $30,000 a year thanks to responsible oil and gas development on the  North Slope.

The Biden administration failed to properly consult with the people  of the North Slope when they decided to lock up ANWR and the NPR-A.  Former Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland refused request after  request to meet and hear from them. This was told to us in a meeting in  the Natural Resources Committee.

The CRA resolution will correct this by giving Alaska and the Alaska  Natives of the North Slope the opportunity to responsibly develop the  10-02 area of ANWR, which was set aside by Congress for this direct  purpose.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for introducing this important CRA  resolution on behalf of all Alaskans, and I urge my colleagues to join  me in voting for this resolution. I look forward to this passing this  House.