Southcentral Foundation Land Transfer Act of 2025


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3620) to provide for the conveyance of certain property to  the Southcentral Foundation located in Anchorage, Alaska, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3620

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Southcentral Foundation Land       Transfer Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) SCF.--The term ``SCF'' means the Southcentral       Foundation located in Anchorage, Alaska.

(2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of Health and Human Services.       SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY TO SCF.

(a) In General.--As soon as practicable, but not later than       2 years, after the date of enactment of this Act, the       Secretary shall convey to SCF all right, title, and interest       of the United States in and to the property described in       subsection (b) for use in connection with health and social       services programs.

(b) Property Described.--The property, including all land,       improvements, and appurtenances, referred to in this section       is the approximately 3.372 acres located in Lot 1A, Block 36       East Addition, Anchorage Townsite Subdivision in Anchorage,       Alaska, according to the official plat thereof, filed under       Plat No. 2025-11, records of the Anchorage Recording       District, Third Judicial District, State of Alaska.       SEC. 4. CONDITIONS OF CONVEYANCE.

(a) Conditions.--The conveyance under subsection (a) of       section 3--

(1) shall be made by warranty deed; and

(2) shall not--

(A) require any consideration from SCF for the property       described in subsection (b) of that section;

(B) impose any obligation, term, or condition on SCF       relating to that property; or

(C) allow for any reversionary interest of the United       States in that property.

(b) Effect on Any Quitclaim Deed.--The conveyance by the       Secretary under subsection (a) of section 3 by warranty deed       shall, on the effective date of the conveyance, supersede,       and render of no future effect, any quitclaim deed to the       property described in subsection (b) of that section executed       by the Secretary and SCF.

(c) Easement.--The Secretary shall be accorded any easement       or access to the property conveyed under section 3(a) as may       be reasonably necessary to satisfy any retained obligation or       liability of the Secretary.       SEC. 5. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY.

(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, SCF shall not be liable for any soil, surface water,       groundwater, or other contamination resulting from the       disposal, release, or presence of any environmental       contamination described in subsection (b) on any portion of       the property described in section 3(b) that occurred on or       before the date on which the property is conveyed to SCF       under section 3(a), except that the Secretary shall not be       liable for any contamination that occurred after the date       that SCF controlled, occupied, and used the property.

(b) Environmental Contamination.--Environmental       contamination referred to in subsection (a) includes any oil       or petroleum products, hazardous substances, hazardous       materials, hazardous waste, pollutants, toxic substances,       solid waste, or any other environmental contamination or       hazard as defined in any Federal or State of Alaska law.

(c) Notice of Hazardous Substance Activity and Warranty.--      In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall comply with       section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,       Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)).

(d) Limitation on Applicability.--This section shall only       apply to the property conveyance specifically required by       this Act.

Mr. STAUBER.  3620, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3620, the Southcentral  Foundation Land Transfer Act of 2025, sponsored by my colleague,  Representative Begich of Alaska. This would transfer approximately 3.4  acres of Federal land in Anchorage, Alaska, to the Southcentral  Foundation.

Southcentral Foundation is a tribally-operated health organization  serving Alaska Native people under the Indian Self-Determination and  Education Assistance Act. This parcel, currently owned by the Centers  for Disease Control and Prevention, has housed Southcentral  Foundation's behavioral health programs since 1994, for over 30 years.

However, the foundation does not currently hold title to the  property. As a result, it cannot secure financing to improve or replace  the aging facility, meaning that it cannot take full advantage of  opportunities to expand mental health services for the Alaska Native  population that it serves.

H.R. 3620 corrects this by conveying the land to Southcentral  Foundation so it may move forward with plans to construct a modern  behavioral health facility. The foundation has already coordinated with  the municipality of Anchorage to rezone the land in anticipation of  this project. Once the bill is signed into law, construction can and  will begin immediately.

This is a commonsense measure that supports Tribal self- determination. It empowers a proven provider to serve its community  with up-to-date infrastructure.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Begich for introducing this bill  and for his hard work and leadership on Alaska Native health issues. I  urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3620, and I reserve the balance of  my time.                                          House of Representatives,                                Committee on Energy and Commerce,                                   Washington, DC, December 8, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Westerman: I write regarding H.R. 3620, the       ``Southcentral Foundation Land Transfer Act of 2025.'' While       there are provisions of the legislation that fall within the       Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on Energy and Commerce,       I wanted to notify you that the Committee will forgo action       on the bill so that it may proceed expeditiously to the House       floor for consideration.

This is done with the understanding that the Committee's       jurisdictional interests over this and similar legislation       are in no way diminished or altered. In addition, the       Committee reserves the right to seek conferees on H.R. 3620       and requests your support when such a request is made.

I would appreciate your response confirming this       understanding with respect to H.R. 3620 and ask that a copy       of our exchange of letters on this matter be included in the       committee report on the bill or in the Congressional Record       during consideration of the bill on the House floor.            Sincerely,                                                     Brett Guthrie,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                   Washington, DC, December 8, 2025.      Hon. Brett Guthrie,      Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Guthrie: I write regarding H.R. 3620, the       ``Southcentral Foundation Land Transfer Act of 2025,'' which       was ordered reported by the Committee on Natural Resources on       July 23, 2025.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Energy and       Commerce and appreciate your willingness to forgo further       consideration of the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee       on Energy and Commerce will not formally consider H.R. 3620       and agree that the inaction of your Committee with respect to       the bill does not waive any jurisdiction over the subject       matter contained therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Energy and Commerce to any conference committee       to consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange       of letters is included in the Congressional Record during       floor consideration of the bill and will include such letters       in the committee report on H.R. 3620. I appreciate your       cooperation regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                          Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3620 is a simple fix that will have a meaningful  impact. By granting Southcentral Foundation title to the land it has  used for decades, we are removing bureaucratic barriers and enabling  the construction of a modern behavioral health facility.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3620 and help us take a small  but significant step forward in improving behavioral health outcomes  for our Tribal communities.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3176) to amend the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation,  Management, and Recreation Act to reauthorize the National Volcano  Early Warning and Monitoring System, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3176

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. NATIONAL VOLCANO EARLY WARNING AND MONITORING                     SYSTEM REAUTHORIZATION.

Section 5001(c) of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation,       Management, and Recreation Act (43 U.S.C. 31k(c)) is       amended--

(1) in paragraph (1)--

(A) by striking ``United States Geological Survey'' and       inserting ``Secretary''; and

(B) by striking ``2019 through 2023'' and inserting ``2026       through 2029''; and

(2) in paragraph (2)--

(A) by striking ``National Oceanic and Atmospheric       Administration'' and inserting ``Secretary of Commerce''; and

(B) by striking ``such sums as may be necessary for the       period of fiscal years 2023 through 2024'' and inserting       ``$470,000 for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2029''.

Mr. STAUBER.  3176, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3176, which will amend  the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act  to reauthorize the National Volcano Early Warning and Monitoring  System, NVEWS.

First, I thank my colleague from Alaska, Representative Begich, for  his efforts on this bill.

With over 130 volcanoes and volcanic fields, Alaska has more  volcanoes than any other State, and more than 50 of those have been  active in the last 300 years.

Volcanic hazards are difficult to estimate on a year-to-year basis,  but when they occur, the results can be catastrophic. For example, the  Mount St. Helens eruption in 1980 caused more than $1 billion in  damage. Adjusting for inflation, that figure would now exceed $4  billion.

Damage estimates for volcanic eruptions can swing wildly, depending  on many factors, but are almost always severe, underscoring the need  for early warning and monitoring.

Obviously, protecting human life is our paramount concern in  monitoring volcanic activity, but it is not just people on the ground  who are at risk. Aircraft that are flying within 1,000 miles of a  volcanic eruption can experience damage if they are not made aware of  the smoke. Volcanic eruptions can be detrimental, and even fatal, to  passengers and crew.

The lives of families near erupting volcanoes are priceless, far  surpassing the value of any damaged infrastructure. To protect those  lives, we must be able to monitor volcanic activity effectively and  broadcast early warnings of eruptions.

This is why Congress should reauthorize this critical program so that  communities near volcanoes are provided ample time to react to an  eruption and so that air traffic is warned of potential dangers.

The NVEWS Advisory Committee is integral to this program. It provides  the Secretary of the Interior with information on current program  activities and relevant research that may improve the program going  forward.

The committee cannot meet while the program is unauthorized, however,  so reauthorization is essential to get the committee working again.

While we cannot stop volcanic eruptions, we can take prudent steps to  minimize damage and loss of life. That is precisely what this program  is intended to do.

I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would again commend my  colleague from Alaska (Mr. Begich) for working to pass meaningful  legislation that can save lives.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 3176, and I yield  back the balance of my time.