Thinkdifferently About Disability Employment Act


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, before I begin, I thank both my Republican  and Democrat colleagues for their kind words. They are both spot on,  and I couldn't be more proud to stand here and support this bill.

I rise today in strong support of my bill, the ThinkDIFFERENTLY About  Disability Employment Act.

I want to begin by thanking my colleagues from California, Missouri,  and New Hampshire, Representatives Simon, Alford, and Pappas, for their  support of this important legislation.

As a father to a young man with Down syndrome, I have seen firsthand  just how much untapped talent exists within the disability community.  Unfortunately, outdated systems and perceptions still keep far too many  of these individuals on the sidelines in our economy.

That is just unfair, and it is a missed opportunity for American  growth and innovation, and deprives our economy of their incredible  contributions.

The ThinkDIFFERENTLY About Disability Employment Act takes a critical  step towards breaking down these barriers. This bill directs the Small  Business Administration and the National Council on Disability to  collaborate in providing resources and assistance to individuals with  disabilities who want to start their own business or find meaningful  employment, and it also ensures that small businesses have the guidance  they need to hire and support employees with disabilities.

Through this bill, we are ensuring that individuals with disabilities  can turn their ambitions into reality, whether that means starting a  company or securing meaningful work. At the same time, we are helping  small businesses tap into a skilled and motivated workforce by offering  them the guidance to do so confidently.

Individuals with disabilities should not be overlooked. They should  be empowered.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation so that  every American, regardless of their ability, has the opportunity to  contribute, succeed, and thrive in this great Nation.