University of Utah Research Park Act


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2876) to confirm the use of certain non-Federal land in Salt  Lake City, Utah, for public purposes, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2876

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``University of Utah Research       Park Act''.       SEC. 2. CONFIRMATION OF USE OF CERTAIN NON-FEDERAL LAND IN                     SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FOR VALID PUBLIC                     PURPOSES.

(a) Confirmation of Uses.--

(1) In general.--The use by the University of Utah of the       land described in subsection (b) as a University research       park, as approved by the letter from the Secretary of the       Interior to the University of Utah dated December 10, 1970,       and any modifications of the approved plan of development and       management approved by the Department of the Interior prior       to the date of enactment of this Act, is confirmed as a valid       public purpose consistent with the requirements of the       Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and       Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C.       869 et seq.), subject to the terms and conditions included in       the letter and approvals.

(2) Other uses.--Any other uses of the land described in       subsection (b) by the University of Utah that are consistent       with use as a University research park and related university       purposes (including development of student housing and a       transit hub) are confirmed as valid public purposes       consistent with the requirements of the Act of June 14, 1926       (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes       Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).

(b) Description of Non-Federal Land.--The land referred to       in subsection (a) is the approximately 593.54 acres of land       conveyed to the University of Utah under the Act of June 14,       1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes       Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), by       patent numbered 43-99-0012 and dated October 18, 1968, and       more particularly described as tracts D (excluding parcels       numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5), G, and J, T. 1 S., R. 1 E., Salt       Lake Meridian.

Mr. STAUBER.  2876, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2876, the  University of Utah Research Park Act, led by Representative Blake Moore  of Utah.

H.R. 2876 resolves legal uncertainty surrounding the University of  Utah's ownership of 593 acres of land in the heart of Salt Lake City.  This uncertainty comprises the university's flagship research park, a  key educational and economic development center.

Since its conveyance under the Research and Public Purposes Act in  1968, this parcel has grown into a nationally recognized hub for  innovation, home to 81 university departments and more than 50  pharmaceutical, medical research, and biotechnology companies. Today,  Research Park employs over 14,000 Utahns and provides invaluable  educational opportunities for students preparing to lead in the fields  of science and medicine.

Despite this long record of success, a recent BLM review raised  questions about whether the park's use of the land aligns with the  terms of the original patent.

H.R. 2876 clears up this ambiguity by affirming the park's current  use is valid and consistent with the public purpose envisioned at the  time of the conveyance.

This is a simple, bipartisan bill that cuts red tape and ensures the  University of Utah can continue building on nearly six decades of  scientific discovery, economic growth, and global impact. I commend  Representative Moore for leading this effort in the House and the  chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Senator  Lee, for championing this bill in the Senate.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2876 resolves an unnecessary cloud over this  property by confirming the valid use of the University of Utah's prized  Research Park, which has served the public for decades.

This commonsense bill will allow the park to keep driving innovation,  supporting thousands of good jobs, and giving students hands-on  opportunities to learn and grow.

I thank once again Representative Moore, Senator Lee, and the entire  Utah congressional delegation for their work on this important effort.  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.