Utah Wildfire Research Institute Act of 2025


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1045) to amend the Southwest Forest Health and Wildfire  Prevention Act of 2004 to require the establishment of an additional  Institute under that Act.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1045

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Utah Wildfire Research       Institute Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL INSTITUTE.

(a) In General.--Section 5(b)(2) of the Southwest Forest       Health and Wildfire Prevention Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C.       6704(b)(2)) is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end;

(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end       and inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(D) the State of Utah.''.

(b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 5(e)(1) of the Southwest       Forest Health and Wildfire Prevention Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C.       6704(e)(1)) is amended by striking ``and Colorado'' and       inserting ``Colorado, and Utah''.

Mr. STAUBER.  1045, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1045, the Utah Wildfire  Research Institute Act of 2025, offered by Representative Kennedy of  Utah.

Across the West, and particularly in Utah, wildfire risk is  increasing. In 2024, more than 90,000 acres burned in the State. Along  the Wasatch Front, the number of fire weather days has grown by 15  since 1973, meaning fires now have a longer window to ignite and  spread. This is exacerbated by the accumulation of hazardous fuels,  caused by a century of fire suppression and a lack of active  management.

In 2004, Congress created the Southwest Ecological Restoration  Institutes, or SWERI, in Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico to advance  wildfire research and promote science-based forest management. These  institutes have been invaluable partners to Federal and State land  managers, producing peer-reviewed research, improving forest health,  and helping reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires across the West.

Despite facing the same wildfire threats as its Four Corners  neighbors, Utah is the only State in the region without a SWERI center.  Representative Kennedy's legislation corrects this oversight by  authorizing an additional institute in Utah, allowing the State to  expand research, strengthen watershed restoration, and develop  innovative fuel-reduction strategies.

We know that forest management is the single most crucial factor in  determining wildfire severity. This bill builds on a proven model and  will bolster Utah's ability to confront wildfire risks head-on.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Representative Kennedy and the chairman of the  Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Senator Lee, for their  leadership on this issue. Their legislation has broad support in the  State of Utah, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it  today.

House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                  Washington, DC, September 3, 2025.      Hon. Glenn Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Thompson: I write regarding H.R. 1045, the       ``Utah Wildfire Research Institute Act of 2025,'' which was       ordered reported by the Committee on Natural Resources on       July 23, 2025.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 1045 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill and will include such letters in       the committee report on H.R. 1045. I appreciate your       cooperation regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                  Washington, DC, September 3, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 1045, the ``Utah Wildfire       Research Institute Act of 2025.'' Thank you for collaborating       with the Committee on Agriculture on the matters within our       jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.         We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 1045 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,                                                          Chairman.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation is straightforward. It builds on the  proven success of the Southwest Ecological Restoration Institutes in  Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico by finally extending this important  program to Utah.

Establishing a SWERI in Utah will expand wildlife research,  strengthen collaboration with land managers, and provide new tools to  improve forest health and reduce catastrophic wildfires. I urge my  colleagues to support Representative Kennedy's bill.