International Holocaust Remembrance Day


Mrs. KIGGANS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record  remarks submitted at the request of a Virginia Beach constituent, Rabbi  Dr. Israel Zoberman of Temple Lev Tikvah, and are a reflection of his  views:       INTERNATIONAL HOLOCAUST REMEMBRANCE DAY--80TH ANNIVERSARY OF                           AUSCHWITZ'S LIBERATION

Israeli author and lawyer Yishai Sarid was born in Tel Aviv       in 1965, serving as an intelligence officer in the IDF. His       law degree is from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem earning       an M.A. Public Administration from Harvard University. His       arousing, even disturbing novel, The Memory Monster (New       York: Restless Books, 2020), raises profound questions       reflecting the searing struggle of Israelis to come to grips       with the Holocaust's enormous impact on their identity and       very lives, with the Shoah's long shadow as constant       backdrop. In addition, the genocide's implications touch on       the universal human condition and its absurd dimension. As       much as human memory is an honored, even reveled, component       in the Jewish lexicon laden with lessons, warnings, and       guideposts, it carries within it, as the novel's title       attests, no less than a devouring monstrous quality.

The mesmerizing account is a confessional report to       Jerusalem's Memorial Yad Vashem's chairman of the rise and       collapse as well as fall from grace of a once enthusiastic       recruit on a sacred national mission of accompanying Israeli       high-schoolers, military personnel, VIPs, and ordinary adult       tourists to Poland seeking a very brief exposure to a death       camp site. The heavy-laden theme is made bearable by a       genuine literary talent utilizing a relieving dose of sarcasm       and deprecating self-loathing. We do know that biting dark       humor was used by the camps' condemned inmates as a survival       mechanism in a universe turned upside down.

The author, however, finds tragic, grotesque and Kafkian       qualities in a so-called normal post-Holocaust reality where       the unnamed book's protagonist becomes consumed by the       realization that the past is embedded in the present with       ``The Memory Monster'' threatening to remind us that we       cannot escape the past and thus we are destined to be doomed       rather than redeemed. Yad Vashem's chairman turns from his       respectful position ``as the official representative of       memory'' to someone who enables carrying on painful memories       which are bound to exact a heavy price on the living.

The Israeli military delegations' visits do have a       commendable educational purpose and value, binding a       torturous not too remote past with present able military       personnel of a proud Jewish state. Not all the Israeli       soldiers have family ties with the Holocaust, some are not       from a European background and their ties with Polish Jewry       are very tenuous. The sight of Israelis in military uniform       is disturbing to some Poles in a land where antisemitism is       still present albeit with a small Jewish community. I vividly       recall upon visiting Poland in 2017 and stepping out of the       new state-of-art Polin Museum next to the giant Warsaw Ghetto       Memorial, an Israeli military group getting ready to conduct       a memorial service at the moving site. I introduced myself to       a handsome colonel pilot who asked me to intercede with then-      President Trump to advance peace between the Israelis and       Palestinians.

Leading a day tour of Israeli adults whose goal in Poland       was shopping and vacationing, not too serious Holocaust       learning, provokes a questioning soul-searching response from       their disappointed guide who regards his job as a sacred       calling without God's participation, ``What's the point of       all these recitations? If it is our duty to carry on living,       why not live life in all its stupidity?'' The narrator's       scholarly dissertation was prepared in a book form for the       public with the attractive covet of Belzec SS officers       exuding confidence.

Belzec is the last of the six major extermination camps on       Polish soil to be properly maintained. It is also the place       where many of my paternal relatives from Zamosc perished,       including my great-grandparents Rabbi Yaacov and Dena Manzis       Zoberman. Visiting there in 2017, I led our group of       seventeen American Jews in the Kaddish, aware that I was       touching my severed-sacred roots.

Rabbi Dr. Israel Zoberman is the founder of Temple Lev Tikvah in  Virginia Beach. Hundreds of his family members were murdered in the  Holocaust.