Israel At 78


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702087/israel-at-78


Mrs. KIGGANS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record  remarks submitted at the request of a Virginia Beach constituent, Rabbi  Dr. Israel Zoberman of Temple Lev Tikvah, and are a reflection of his  views:                                Israel At 78

The world's only Jewish state celebrates its 78th       anniversary in the shadow of existential war with Iran and       its proxies, fighting along its great American partner with       shared values and interests. Professor David Passig's work is       of particular value. He was born in Meknes, Morocco in 1957       and moved to Israel in 1968 with his parents and four       siblings. Passig teaches at Israel's Bar-Ilan University in       the Graduate School of Education, heading the Graduate       Program in information and Communication Technologies (ICT),       along with the Virtual Reality Laboratory. His doctorate in       Future Studies is from the University of Minnesota. In his       latest book, The Fifth Fiasco (How to Escape the Traps of       Jewish History in the Twenty-First Century), he suggests       alternative scenarios to past periods with the goal of       avoiding repetitions of fateful and costly mistakes and       consequently guaranteeing a secure Jewish future in a       sovereign and democratic Israeli state. Passig's underlying       supposition is quite chilling, ``Therefore, I want to note at       the beginning that those among the readers who accept the       Biblical account as a given fact, may find it difficult to       understand the ``exercise'' of an alternative formulation       contradicting the known facts. To those I want to emphasize       that the entire purpose is to examine in a refreshed prose an       alternative Biblical text that could have prevented the great       catastrophe of the destruction of the two Temples. The       occupation of providing alternative scenarios for that       calamity is critical when fear for destruction returns to       echo in the collective Jewish consciousness of the State of       Israel in the 21st century.''

The concerned readers the author refers to are Orthodox       Jews and the fact that he is an Orthodox Jew affiliated with       the Orthodox Jewish Bar-Ilan University, well reflects on the       academic open integrity of that institution as well as       Passig's. The widespread Israeli phenomenon in recent years       of Israelis holding also foreign passports might support the       professor's assertion of, if not concrete fear, a certain       Israeli unease concerning the future; not for the state's       very survival, rather I believe, a lingering disaffection       with the deepening divisions and gaps in Israeli society       coupled with a frustrating impasse on Israeli-Palestinian       reconciliation and explosive old-new tensions       with Israeli Arabs. All that in face of a successful young       start-up nation with an incredible record of progress,       including the recent Abraham Accords. These contradictions       highlight the complex Jewish condition with some million       Israelis living abroad, mainly in North America, begging       soul-searching inquiry. Israel's small size and more       opportunities abroad are saliant factors along with the       historical Jewish wandering gene.

The author perceptively points out that the long Jewish       tradition to ponder the past on a weekly basis with the       discussed study of various interpretations of the Torah,       maintained the bond with the people's past, but lacked the       necessary alternative scenarios, and particularly arousing       ones for the future's sake, and thus former mistakes were       repeated with fatal consequences. Passig regards a certain       sickness of self-destruction to be responsible for the       misfortunes that befell the Jewish people throughout its       history, though surely other weighty factors are at play such       as Israel's geo-political strategic location which lures       empires and superpowers as well as a nation's willingness to       risk much for the sake of its ethos and ideals beyond the       drive for mere survival, and even finding divine       justification for its predicaments whether through punishment       or reward. The Talmudic teaching (Pesachim 87b) that exile       fulfills God's purpose which is beneficial for both Israel       and the world at-large is a case in point. It can be argued       also that in the nuclear age it is too dangerous to have all       Jews concentrated in one place. The current model is of a       sovereign Jewish state with a viable Diaspora, mainly       American, along its historical antecedents, supports and       nourishes each other for the entire Jewish people's sake and       survival.

Faithful to his conclusion for the need to present a       shocking future scenario serving to wake up to the       possibility that Israel's future as an independent Jewish       state is not guaranteed, Passig describes a wild scenario--      one of the offered options by Future Studies scholars--      beginning with an Israeli civil war in the 40's of the 21st       century, over unbridgeable disagreements between the       political left and right on basic issues such as the Law of       Return, the Jewish Nation State Law, the annexation of parts       of Judea and Samaria and rioting between Jews and Arabs       around the Western Wall and Temple Mount. The violent       escalation of internal conflicts accompanied by a costly       Israeli military incursion toward Syria's Damascus,       ultimately resulting at the 22nd century's end in only 20       percent fearful Jews among some 30 million mostly hostile       Arabs. Once a flourishing Israeli Jewish state faces the       tragic fate of its previous two Jewish Commonwealths.

While he praises the Reform rabbis for turning away from       their anti-Zionist stance in 1937, he shares his       disappointment with those ultra-Orthodox rabbis who remained       opposed to the Jewish state with Rabbi Shach even blaming the       Shoah (Holocaust) as divine punishment for accumulated Jewish       sins. The traditional approach holding God in charge of human       affairs, does not solve pressing dilemmas that require human       responsibility which the Zionist movement's revolution       exemplified. Passig is also critical of those rabbis who       refused to follow protective measures during the Corona       crisis in Israel and generally reject the authority of the       sovereign Jewish state. He views American Jewish disunity for       the failure to bomb the railroads leading to Auschwitz during       World War II, The long exile promoted text replacing       territory though territory was preserved in the text, while       Islam favored territory first.

The author advocates for Israel's urgent need to formulate       a briefly declared covenantal mission statement to unify the       Jewish majority along with its minorities around a common       theme, while serving to highlight its uniqueness in the       community of nations. Passig is concerned that Israel is not       yet fully accepted as a separate nation. Whereas the United       States' motto is ``Personal Freedom'' and the European       Union's, ``Unity in Diversity,'' he suggests that Israel       should be defined by, ``The Public's Freedom'' in a binding       and intricate system of its individuals' interconnectedness.       However, Passig may be overstating the impact of a shortly       stated national goal as the most critical force behind a       nation's success or collapse in history's long-run. Finding a       common theme for Jews and Arabs in Israel, indeed a desired       aspiration, faces enormous challenge given the complex       Jewish-Arab equation.

Rabbi Dr. Israel Zoberman is founder of Temple Lev Tikvah in Virginia  Beach. He is a member of the Holocaust's surviving remnant of European  Jewry.