Recognizing the National Certified Dietary Manager (Cdm) and Certified Food Protection Professionals (Cfpp) Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697863/recognizing-the-national-certified-dietary-manager-cdm-and-certified-food-protection-professionals-cfpp-day


Mrs. KIGGANS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the  National Certified Dietary Manager (CDM), Certified Food Protection  Professionals (CFPP) Day, which this year fell on Friday, November 28,  2025.

This day is meant to honor the contributions these professionals have  made in the foodservice management profession and their vital role in  America's healthcare industry and particularly long-term care.

Foodborne illness is a health threat to all Americans, but seniors  are most at risk as they are more susceptible to the adverse health  effects from foodborne-induced gastroenteritis. The CDM, CFPP  credential raises the standard of care in Skilled Nursing Facilities  and establishes a more clearly defined career path for those who choose  to serve in long-term care.

As a geriatric nurse practitioner, I have seen firsthand how  dedicated professionals with the CDM, CFPP credential positively affect  health outcomes. They are responsible for managing nutrition and  foodservice operations, and are trained and qualified to administer  menus, food purchasing and preparation, and to apply nutrition  principles, among many other essential tasks.

I would also like to recognize the Association of Nutrition &  Foodservice Professionals (ANFP) for its efforts to designate November  28 as National CDM, CFPP Day. Over 90 percent of ANFP's 13,000 members  work in healthcare and most of those are in long-term care. ANFP's  Youth Apprenticeship Program is based in the CDM, CFPP credential and  was approved by the U.S. Department of Labor in 2022.

The CDM, CFPP credential is a source of pride for those who achieve  and maintain it. CDM, CFPP credential holders are committed to ensuring  our vulnerable seniors receive the care and attention they deserve,  often working year-round and over holidays.

I am proud to honor their significant impacts to healthcare and  celebrate the National Certified Dietary Managers, Certified Food  Protection Professionals Day of the Year.