National Gun Violence Awareness Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691750/national-gun-violence-awareness-month


Mrs. FOUSHEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman McClellan and  Congressman Carter for anchoring this Special Order hour to bring  attention to one of the most pressing and pervasive challenges  confronting our Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today with urgency, grief, and determination  during National Gun Violence Awareness Month, a time for us to  recognize the heartbreaking toll that gun violence continues to take on  communities across the country.

I am deeply saddened that this past Sunday in my home State of North  Carolina, there was a mass shooting where at least 80 shots were fired,  killing 1 person and injuring 11 others.

Unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident. Gun violence is a  public health epidemic that affects Americans and ravages communities  in every ZIP Code in every State. Yet, year after year, we see the same  devastating trend: Black Americans are dying from gun violence at  nearly three times the rate of White Americans.

Each year, more than 13,000 Black lives are lost to this epidemic.  They are mothers, fathers, sons, daughters, friends, and neighbors  whose futures are stolen, whose communities are left grieving, and  whose absence is deeply felt every single day.

Tragically, the violence does not end there. For years, Black  Americans have faced a persistent and disproportionate risk of being  killed in police encounters involving firearms. Let me be clear: No one  in America should have to fear for their lives in our schools, our  stores, our places of worship, our streets, or anywhere in our  communities.

Yet, while this crisis and disparity continues to grow across the  country, some in Congress are moving in the wrong direction. Again, my  colleagues just shared that, just a couple of weeks ago House  Republicans voted along party lines to pass the so-called One Big  Beautiful Bill Act, which included a provision to deregulate silencers.  Due to the dangers they pose, these devices have been highly regulated  for nearly 100 years, and this provision would make it easier for  individuals to use firearms with less risk of detection, further  endangering our communities already suffering from gun violence.

This is not the type of comprehensive gun reform legislation that the  American people need or deserve. A majority of Americans support  universal background checks, closing loopholes in gun sales, red flag  laws, and safe storage legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle: What  are we waiting for? The oath of office that all Members of Congress  took demands that we protect the American people. Yet, every day that  we delay, lives are lost.

I urge my Republican colleagues to join House Democrats, the  Congressional Black Caucus, and the House Gun Violence Prevention Task  Force in advancing meaningful, commonsense reforms that will save  lives, reduce violence, and protect all Americans.