Defending Education Transparency and Ending Rogue Regimes Engaging in Nefarious Transactions Act


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, this bill is yet another Republican attack  aimed at dismantling higher education in our Nation.

Last week, we know that President Trump ordered the illegal  elimination of the Department of Education, threatening the future of  millions of children across every district in our country. He is using  the threat of cutting off Federal funding as a negative approach, very  much taking a tool right here to pressure the universities and  administrations to submit to his will in violation of freedom of speech  for their students.

Mr. Chair, instead of addressing any of these crises threatening our  students in our education system, we are here voting today on a bill  that goes after foreign scapegoats instead.

We know that President Trump is the biggest threat to our education  system in America right now, not someone in North Korea or China.  Please, give me a break.

I fully support financial transparency in our universities. No one is  against that. No one. That is why I am introducing amendments to this  bill to ensure that transparency around our universities and the  relationships with so-called countries of concern include countries  whose leaders have active arrest warrants issued against them by the  International Criminal Court, to include countries actively on trial  with the International Court of Justice for violating the Genocide  Convention and the Geneva Conventions.

I am calling for transparency, Mr. Chair, around university  investments in companies profiting from violations of international  law, but my colleagues are not interested, of course, when it comes to  that sort of transparency. My colleagues are not interested in holding  countries with human rights abuses accountable. They are not interested  in voting to uphold international law, Mr. Chair. They are only  interested in voting to protect governments like the Israeli  Government's apartheid regime.

In fact, many of my colleagues have cheered on expulsion, arrest, and  deportation of university students calling for the exact type of  transparency and exercising their First Amendment right, Mr. Chair,  their constitutional right. You don't have to agree with them, Mr.  Chair, no one does, but it is their right. It is their right to again  express their disagreement with policy and decisions by a foreign  government.

In fact, many of my colleagues again continue to say there is  transparency for some countries in relationships with universities but  not certain other countries, even if they have an investigation  actively with the international court system.

This is not about transparency, as is claimed. It is truly about  destroying freedom of speech and the most important American value in  our country, the right to dissent.

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, I think ``countries of concern'' is perfectly  explained in my amendment. That is to say, again, I know for a fact  that some of these countries killed American citizens. Some of them are  literally openly killing American citizens, and the countries of  concern, to explain--this is so important--that the International Court  of Justice, if there is any violation, these are violations to the  Geneva Convention and the Genocide Convention.

If we are specifically talking about making sure that universities  are not engaging in whatever they are calling  so-called threats our country, why is it that certain countries, again,  who are under investigation for violating international law, many of  which are under investigation for war crimes like bombing hospitals and  schools and everything, are using it in the way that is also violating  people's freedom of speech? They are using some of the resources they  have in silencing many university students, especially those speaking  out against genocide that is happening in Gaza.

I think it is important that if we are for transparency, let's talk  about all violations of international law and human rights in all  countries, again, countries of interest to include all of those folks  that have active cases and arrest warrants for the people running their  country.

We can go back and forth about whether or not we think the ICC is  legitimate, but it exists. It exists to prevent what is actually  happening right now. I think it is important that if we are going to be  consistent about whether or not we are protecting American interests,  what about Americans that are being killed by countries of interest  that I am trying to include here? What about them? What about the folks  whose rights continue to be violated when they travel to those  countries?

I think it is really important and critical that if we are going to  say this to universities and that we are targeting higher education,  that we are consistent in what we say is a violation of international  law and human rights.

I think, Mr. Chair, it is so important that we continue to protect  the American interests. Right now it is very clear that this is an  attack. The opposition to this is because it is an attack on the fact  that many folks want the right to speak out against certain countries  that are violating international law.

It is critical that we protect the right to dissent in our country.  So many of my colleagues, even when I don't agree with them, I protect  their right to speak up and say whatever they want, even if I disagree.

I know what this is about. This is about silencing people. If my  colleagues are going to do it, they better include the folks committing  genocide. I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, this amendment is to discuss whether or not,  again, our body, the United States House of Representatives, is  standing and making sure that we don't undermine international law and  the institutions that work to uphold it, especially the International  Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court.

I think it is incredibly harmful to allow many of my colleagues to  take great lengths right here to protect war criminals, apartheid  regimes, folks that continue to commit war crimes in targeting  civilians including tent communities, schools, and hospitals. This bill  undermines the international legal system for seeking to hold various  officials, again, countries that are violating crimes against humanity.

Again, it is really important. My amendment basically allows us to  include countries that are currently under investigation or their  leaders have been convicted or have an arrest warrant out for the fact  that they have committed violation of international human rights laws.

I know when it comes to Russia or China, my colleagues like to talk  about rule-based international order. When it comes to governments like  the government of Israel, my colleagues are willing to throw  international law in the shredder. Their actions consistently undermine  the principle of equal justice under law when they protect perpetrators  of the most horrific crimes against humanity.

I wish my colleagues would see what is happening. I wish they would  see that, no matter their ethnicity, we should be saving the lives of  the children. We shouldn't allow it to be enabled or emboldened. Their  actions consistently undermine the principle of equal justice.

Of course, it is up to world leaders everywhere to affirm our  commitment to international law, but let's be consistent about it. No  matter who is committing it, it still is a violation of international  human rights laws.

It is important to support the International Court of Justice and  International Criminal Court. They were created so we can prevent  genocide and so we can stop what is happening in Gaza.

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, I think it is really important to understand  the International Criminal Court right now is investigating right now  an active case against what is happening in Sudan. Are we saying we are  not caring?

I completely agree. Any country--Iran, China, Russia--any country  that has an active investigation or has arrest warrants for their  leadership in the International Criminal Court system and these  international systems that are in place was to prevent and, again,  protect the interests of the American people.

All of us support upholding international law because it protects our  country, but it protects the rule of law in making sure that war crimes  are not being committed.

Mr. Chair, I really urge my colleagues to understand we need to be  consistent here. If you are going to say we are going to go after  universities--because I know what this is really about. Is this really  about China and Russia and protecting our interests, or is this really  about trying to not protect certain people for speaking up in regard to  what is happening in Gaza?

The attack on higher education right now and freedom of speech is  incredibly dangerous. The right to dissent in our country, the freedom  of speech, First Amendment--you do not have to agree. I was on my  campus when I didn't agree with what people said about immigrants and  what people said about other countries. I understood the American value  of people having their rights and their First Amendment right to speak  up.

What we are doing here is attacking and targeting universities  because we don't like that their student body read about the atrocities  that the Government of Israel is doing. That is what this is about. I  think people need to be honest what this is about and not shy around  about it.

I will say the international court system that is in place was  created because of some horrific history that has happened in our  world, and we are trying to prevent it. For us to now say it is  illegitimate is wrong, and it is not the direction we should be going  in. This is literally the place, again, that is investigating a number  of other countries for egregious war crimes and egregious violence on  women and children.

Now, because we don't agree that they went after one country--again,  many of my colleagues disagree with me--I can tell you it takes a lot  of investigation, talking to doctors, nurses, so many people on the  ground, NGOs and other international organizations that led to, again,  the investigation that has led into International Criminal Court.

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, in closing, I think it is important to know  right now the International Court of Justice is investigating Congo,  Uganda, Philippines, Venezuela, and Sudan. These are countries that  have been under investigation by the International Criminal Court.

I don't have all the details, but it I think it is important to  understand we can't delegitimize when it is a country that we disagree  is committing these crimes. The process is there for a reason, Mr.  Chair. Again, it is to make sure we uphold international human rights  laws, no matter who is committing those egregious crimes.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.