Horrific Ice Abuses


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, that is what the American people are doing  right now in the streets of America. That is what they are using to  protect themselves, whistles and their cameras. That is what they are  doing against the fascist army.

Speaker Johnson says: ICE is doing what ICE is designed to do.

That is what he said.

How many more of our neighbors have to be executed? How many more of  our neighbors have to be killed?

I refuse to send another dollar to the Department of Homeland  Security. My residents don't want their tax dollars going to execute  people in the streets, abduct 5-year-olds, tear gas children, and  separate our families.

This is what the Trump administration is doing right now with DHS  funding. It is a fascist army, and it is shameful.

I grew up in southwest Detroit, Mr. Speaker, with 20 different  beautiful ethnicities. We were the northern border. What my community  and our community kept telling us back then during its creation,  literally, is they told us they are violating people's civil rights. We  do not feel safe with them in our community. People were jogging around  our parks and getting stopped to be asked what their legal status was.  They were militarizing southwest Detroit. They told us back then: Stop  funding ICE.

Kristi Noem has violated the United States Constitution, eroded due  process, and again violated Federal processes and laws by preventing  Members of Congress already from conducting oversight in their  facilities. Shame on them.

This is not an agency, Mr. Speaker, that can be reformed. You can  impeach the Secretary, and she needs to be impeached, but this is an  agency that was created to do what it is doing now. It is built on  violence and racism.

ICE must be abolished. Kristi Noem must be impeached. These murders  should be prosecuted.

I am not looking for people to get fired. I am looking for them to be  truly held accountable for killing our loved ones and for ripping our  children from our arms. Not one more penny should go to this agency  that terrorizes our communities.