Surveillance Pricing in Grocery Stores


Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, families in our community are already  struggling with rising grocery prices. It is shameful that companies  like Kroger are price-gouging our residents with surveillance pricing.

As you can see here, companies are already collecting a tremendous  amount of data and private information about our residents to create  custom profiles about them. Now, with electronic labels and facial  recognition technology, this information is being used in real time to  charge us more at the grocery store.

Imagine if you were at the grocery store right now, and they charged  you a higher price for an item because it used technology to determine  that you were willing to pay more than the next person. Maybe it is  hard to believe, but it is true. You look at this, and you can see that  they are being very clear about the fact that they want to instantly  change the price if it is hot outside, if it is something that you,  again, have been looking at online.

Now they are even adding the use of facial technology in grocery  stores that not only raises serious concerns of privacy but also racial  bias. We know that facial recognition technology discriminates against  our Black and Brown neighbors. This is not just about discriminatory  technology, Mr. Speaker. It is about corporate greed, and the CEOs are  getting rich while working people struggle.

It is essential that we work together in this body to protect our  communities and ban these practices. I ask my colleagues to please  support my legislation to ban surveillance pricing, digital pricing in  grocery stores. Come and see me. You need to stand with your residents,  not these corporations.

Look at Walmart. Look at this: ``If it's hot outside, we can raise  the prices of water and ice cream.'' That is what we are talking about.  We need to protect our residents. Please, again, support my  legislation.                            Keeping Firearms Safe

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, firearms are now the leading cause of death  for children and teens in our country. I have talked to pediatricians.  They are telling me every day that gun violence is just increasing.  Every day, over 125 Americans are killed from gun violence and more  than 200 people are shot and wounded.

These aren't just statistics, Mr. Speaker. These are human beings  with lives and futures. They are our babies, our friends, our  neighbors, our loved ones. Many of these deaths involve accidental  discharge of a firearm, often by a child, including several tragic  incidents in southeast Michigan.

Just last month, Mr. Speaker, in Oakland County, a 9-year-old was  seriously injured after he was accidentally shot. First responders  found the boy bleeding from the head and transported him to the local  hospital.

This Gun Violence Awareness Month, let's do something to save lives.  I am introducing the Safe Storage Saves Lives Act with Representatives  DeLauro, Frost, and Kelly to reduce firearm deaths among our children.

This legislation mandates every firearm seller to include a gun lock  or gun safety device every single time a gun is sold in the United  States. Far too often, irresponsible gun owners fail to properly secure  their weapons with tragic consequences, leading to accidental deaths,  preventable suicides, school shootings, and other mass violence.

When used correctly, a gun lock makes it impossible for a gun to be  fired. Look at this. This is $4. This legislation is a commonsense  solution that every Member of this body should support, every single  one. Keeping firearms out of the hands of our children should not be a  partisan issue, Mr. Speaker.

We must honor those who have already been killed with a lack of  action in this Chamber. Our communities deserve better. Our children  deserve better.                           Honoring Matthew Fisher

Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor one of our dear neighbors in  the 12th Congressional District. We worked over 3 years to present  Matthew Fisher, a remarkable resident of my district, with the Purple  Heart for his dedication and service to our country.

Matthew Fisher was born in Livonia and is a proud graduate of  Stevenson High School. In 2004, Matthew answered the call to serve  others by becoming a firefighter in one of our counties. In 2007, he  made the decision to serve our Nation by joining the U.S. Army. He was  deployed to Kuwait and Iraq from December 2007 to 2009. Unfortunately,  he was there when a horrific bomb changed his life forever. It took us  3 years as a country to recognize his sacrifice.

Since his return, Mr. Fisher has continued to give back to our  community. He currently serves as a mentor at the veterans court system  in Redford Township, helping fellow veterans navigate their own paths  and helping them heal.

He is a devoted husband to Kathryn and a proud father to stepson,  Bankston, and also Sophia.

Please, Mr. Speaker, let's honor Matthew Fisher for his extraordinary  service, again, as we honor him with the Purple Heart.