Generative Ai Terrorism Risk Assessment Act


Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1736) to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct  annual assessments on terrorism threats to the United States posed by  terrorist organizations utilizing generative artificial intelligence  applications, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1736

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Generative AI Terrorism Risk       Assessment Act''.       SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE USE OF GENERATIVE                     ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE APPLICATIONS FOR                     TERRORIST ACTIVITY.

It is the sense of Congress that--

(1) the heightened terrorism threat landscape and the       increasing utilization of generative artificial intelligence       by foreign terrorist organizations represent a national       security threat, and the challenges posed by such threat are       not well understood; and

(2) the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation       with the Office of the Director of National Intelligence,       must take steps to recognize, assess, and address such       threat, thereby reducing risks to the people of the United       States.       SEC. 3. ANNUAL ASSESSMENTS ON TERRORISM THREATS TO THE UNITED                     STATES POSED BY THE USE OF GENERATIVE                     ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE FOR TERRORISM.

(a) Assessments.--

(1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of       the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter for five       years, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation       with the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to       the appropriate congressional committees an assessment of       terrorism threats to the United States posed by the use of       generative artificial intelligence for terrorism.

(2) Contents.--Each terrorism threat assessment under       paragraph (1) shall include the following:

(A) An analysis of incidents during the immediately       preceding calendar year in which a foreign terrorist       organization or individual has used or attempted to use       generative artificial intelligence to carry out the       following:

(i) Spread violent extremist messaging and facilitate the       ability to radicalize and recruit individuals to violence.

(ii) Enhance their ability to develop or deploy chemical,       biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons.

(B) Recommendations on appropriate measures to counter       terrorism threats to the United States posed by such       terrorist organization or individual.

(3) Coordination.--Each terrorism threat assessment under       paragraph (1)--

(A) shall be coordinated by the Secretary of Homeland       Security to ensure compliance with applicable law and       protections relating to individuals' privacy, civil rights,       and civil liberties, and

(B) may be informed by existing products of the Department       of Homeland Security, as appropriate.

(4) Form.--Each terrorism threat assessment under paragraph       (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include       a classified annex. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall       post on a publicly available website of the Department of       Homeland Security the unclassified portion of each such       assessment. Each such unclassified portion shall not contain       information that is designated as For Official Use Only, or       otherwise would not be publicly available pursuant to section       552 of title 5, United States       Code (popularly referred to as the ``Freedom of Information       Act'' (FOIA)), or other applicable law.

(5) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the submission       of each terrorism threat assessment under paragraph (1), the       Secretary of Homeland Security shall brief the appropriate       congressional committees regarding each such assessment. The       head of any other relevant Federal department or agency shall       join the Secretary for any such briefing if any such       committee, in consultation with the Secretary, determines       such is appropriate.

(b) Information Sharing.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall       review information relating to terrorism threats to the       United States posed by the use of generative artificial       intelligence for terrorism that is gathered by State and       major urban area fusion centers and the National Network of       Fusion Centers, and incorporate such information, as       appropriate, into the Department of Homeland Security's own       information relating to such. The Secretary shall ensure the       dissemination to State and major urban area fusion centers       and the National Network of Fusion Centers of such       information.

(2) Coordination.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the       entities specified in paragraph (3) shall share with the       Secretary of Homeland Security information regarding       terrorism threats to the United States posed by the use of       generative artificial intelligence for terrorism.

(3) Entitles specified.--The entities specified in this       paragraph are the following:

(A) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

(B) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(C) Members of the intelligence community.

(D) Any other relevant Federal department or agency the       Secretary of Homeland Security determines necessary.

(c) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee       on Homeland Security, the Permanent Select Committee on       Intelligence, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the       House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland       Security and Governmental Affairs, the Select Committee on       Intelligence, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate.

(2) Artificial intelligence.--The term ``artificial       intelligence'' has the meaning given such term in section       5002 of the National Artificial Intelligence Initiative Act       of 2020 (15 U.S.C. 9401).

(3) Generative artificial intelligence.--The term       ``generative artificial intelligence'' means the class of       artificial intelligence models that emulate the structure and       characteristics of input data in order to generate derived       synthetic content, including images, videos, audio, text, and       other digital content.

(4) Foreign terrorist organization.--The term ``terrorist       organization'' means any entity designated as a foreign       terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).

(5) Fusion center.--The term ``fusion center'' has the       meaning given such term in subsection (k) of section 210A of       the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124h).

(6) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence       community'' has the meaning given such term in section 3(4)       of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

(7) National network of fusion centers.--The term       ``National Network of Fusion Centers'' means a decentralized       arrangement of fusion centers intended to enhance the ability       of individual State and local fusion centers to leverage the       capabilities and expertise of all such fusion centers for the       purpose of enhancing analysis and homeland security       information sharing nationally.

(8) Terrorism.--The term ``terrorism'' has the meaning       given such term in section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of       2002 (6 U.S.C. 101).

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1736, the Generative AI  Terrorism Risk Assessment Act. The bill before us today requires DHS to  conduct annual assessments on the use of generative AI by foreign  terrorist organizations and expands information sharing to address AI- related threats.

We know that terrorist groups, including ISIS and al-Qaida, have  already used generative AI in sophisticated ways, producing propaganda  to spur online recruitment and radicalization efforts. This technology  poses new and heightened risks to our homeland security.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1736, the Generative AI  Terrorism Risk Assessment Act. This bill directs the Secretary of  Homeland Security, in coordination with the Director of National  Intelligence, to conduct assessments on terrorism threats to the United  States posed by terrorist organizations' use of generative artificial  intelligence applications.

Mr. Speaker, we have all seen AI permeate our lives in both positive  and negative ways. AI streamlines workflows, has made breakthroughs in  the medical field, and can dramatically increase the speed at which  Americans are able to do work. We have also seen the dark side of AI  through biased and discriminatory algorithms and deepfake videos.

This bill recognizes the danger that AI can pose when employed by  terrorists who seek to harm our homeland. It requires the Department of  Homeland Security to analyze incidents where foreign terrorist  organizations have used or attempted to use generative AI to spread  violent extremist messaging and to recruit, radicalize, or plot  attacks. This is a commonsense bill that will help the Department get  ahead of terrorism threats.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1736, and I yield back the  balance of my time.