Syria Terrorism Threat Assessment Act


Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1327) to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct a  threat assessment of terrorist threats to the United States posed by  individuals in Syria with an affiliation with a Foreign Terrorist  Organization or a Specially Designated Global Terrorist Organization,  and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1327

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Syria Terrorism Threat       Assessment Act''.       SEC. 2. THREAT ASSESSMENT OF TERRORIST THREATS POSED BY                     INDIVIDUALS IN SYRIA WITH AN AFFILIATION WITH A                     FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATION OR A SPECIALLY                     DESIGNATED GLOBAL TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.

(a) Terrorism Threat Assessment.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in       coordination with the heads of other relevant Federal       departments or agencies, shall conduct a threat assessment of       terrorist threats to the United States posed by individuals       in Syria with an affiliation with a foreign terrorist       organization or a specially designated global terrorist       organization.

(2) Elements.--The threat assessment required under       paragraph (1) shall include the following:

(A) An identification of the country of origin for each       such individual included in such threat assessment.

(B) A description of the foreign terrorist organization or       specially designated global terrorist organization with which       each such individual is affiliated.

(C) A description of the following:

(i) The capability of the Department of Homeland Security       to identify, track, and monitor such individuals.

(ii) Any associated challenges with such capability.

(D) A description of any action of the Department with       respect to the following:

(i) Mitigating the terrorist threats to the United States       posed by such individuals.

(ii) Preventing such individuals from entering the United       States.

(b) Congressional Notification.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--

(A) submit to the appropriate congressional committees the       threat assessment required under subsection (a); and

(B) provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional       committees on such assessment.

(2) Form.--The threat assessment required under subsection       (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include       a classified annex.

(c) Definitions.--In this Act:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of       Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental       Affairs of the Senate.

(2) Foreign terrorist organization.--The term ``foreign       terrorist organization'' means an organization designated as       a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).

(3) Specially designated global terrorist organization.--      The term ``specially designated global terrorist       organization'' means an organization that has been designated       as a specially designated global terrorist organization by       the Secretary of State or the Secretary of the Treasury, as       the case may be, pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C.       1701 note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting       transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or       support terrorism).

Mr. GUEST.  1327.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1327, the Syria Terrorism  Threat Assessment Act.

This bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to conduct an  assessment of the threats posed to the United States by individuals in  Syria affiliated with a foreign terrorist organization or a specially  designated global terrorist group.

Syria suffered under the Assad regime for decades and Assad allowed  Syria to be used as a hub of terrorist activity. While the Assad regime  may no longer be in place, that does not mean that those terror  networks have dispersed. This bill ensures that DHS and lawmakers are  fully informed regarding terrorist threats to the United States that  are still present in Syria.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, I rise also in support of H.R. 1327, the Syria Terrorism  Threat Assessment Act.

In December, the world watched as the Assad regime in Syria collapsed  after 53 years of brutality and repression.

As President Biden stated at the time, Assad's fall ushered a  ``historic opportunity for the long-suffering people of Syria.''  However, many also warned that the potential resurgence of terrorist  groups in the regions, like the Islamic State or al-Qaida, could pose a  significant threat to Americans and U.S. interests in the region and  the homeland.

The Syria Terrorism Threat Assessment Act is responsive to those  warnings, and I thank my colleague Mr. Luttrell for introducing this.

It ensures that the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination  with intelligence community partners, will evaluate and monitor  terrorist threats to the United States posed by individuals in Syria  affiliated with a foreign terrorist organization or a specially  designated global terrorist organization.

This is essential to ensure that the new government in Syria is  growing with the United States' support and in a way that defeats  terrorism on the world's stage.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1327, and I yield back the  balance of my time.