Tren De Aragua Border Security Threat Assessment Act


Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 4070) to require a homeland security border threat assessment on  Tren de Aragua and associated strategic plan, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4070

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Tren de Aragua Border       Security Threat Assessment Act''.       SEC. 2. HOMELAND SECURITY BORDER THREAT ASSESSMENT ON TREN DE                     ARAGUA; STRATEGIC PLAN.

(a) Threat Assessment.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland       Security, in consultation with the intelligence community and       the heads of other relevant Federal departments or agencies       as the Secretary determines appropriate, shall submit to the       appropriate congressional committees a border threat       assessment regarding Tren de Aragua (in this section referred       to as the ``threat assessment'').

(2) Elements.--The threat assessment shall include the       following:

(A) An identification of current and potential criminal       threats posed by members of Tren de Aragua and affiliates       seeking to--

(i) unlawfully enter the United States through the       southwest, northern, or maritime border; or

(ii) exploit any security vulnerabilities along the       southwest, northern, or maritime border.

(B) Descriptions of the following with respect to Tren de       Aragua:

(i) Origins.

(ii) Strategic aims.

(iii) Tactical methods.

(iv) Funding sources.

(v) Leadership structure.

(vi) Chronological growth and presence in the United       States.

(C) Any other matters the Secretary of Homeland Security       considers appropriate.

(3) Form.--The threat assessment shall be submitted in       unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

(b) Strategic Plan.--

(1) In general.--Not later than one year after the       submission of the threat assessment under subsection (a), the       Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the       heads of other relevant Federal departments or agencies as       the Secretary determines appropriate, shall submit to the       appropriate congressional committees a strategic plan (in       this subsection referred to as the ``Strategic Plan'')       relating to countering the threats identified in the threat       assessment, in accordance with paragraph (2).

(2) Contents.--The Strategic Plan shall include, at a       minimum, a consideration of the following:

(A) The threat assessment, with an emphasis on efforts to       mitigate the criminal threats from transnational criminal       organizations, including the threats identified in the threat       assessment in accordance with subsection (a)(2)(A).

(B) Efforts to analyze and disseminate border security and       border threat information between Department of Homeland       Security border security components with the following:

(i) Other appropriate Federal departments and agencies with       missions associated with the southwest, northern, or maritime       border.

(ii) State, local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement       agencies with jurisdictions adjacent to the southwest,       northern, or maritime border.

(C) Efforts to locate, detect, interdict, and disrupt       transnational criminal organizations, including Tren de       Aragua.

(D) Efforts to prevent transnational criminal       organizations, including Tren de Aragua, from proliferating       in the United States.

(c) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of       Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental       Affairs of the Senate.

(2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence       community'' has the meaning given such term in section 3(4)       of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

Mr. GUEST.  4070.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 4070, the Tren de  Aragua Border Security Threat Assessment Act.

Tren de Aragua, a gang formed in a Venezuelan prison, has expanded  its reach throughout the United States. Designated by the Trump  administration as a foreign terrorist organization, Tren de Aragua  members have been responsible for kidnapping and extorting businesses  throughout the United States.

This legislation would require the Department of Homeland Security to  conduct a border threat assessment on Tren de Aragua and develop a  strategic plan to counter the threats identified in the assessment.

I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bill, and I am  grateful to the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Knott) for bringing  forth this important piece of legislation.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, conducting an assessment is an obvious and important  first step in addressing any homeland security threat we face. This  bill smartly and correctly requires a homeland security border threat  assessment on Tren de Aragua followed by the creation of a strategic  plan based on this assessment.

Unfortunately, this bill seems to be a little too late. The  administration is already bombing boats in the Caribbean that they  claim to be Tren de Aragua. I hope they have already done an assessment  and have a plan. They certainly have not shared anything with Congress  to that effect.

Mr. Speaker, it is very important for Congress to understand the  threat that is leading to this administration's actions and that  justifies this administration's actions. We have simply not been given  enough information about the Trump administration's assessments,  justification, and strategy for blowing up numerous boats off the coast  of Venezuela. Members of Congress must have this information, and that  is why I support this bill.

To be clear, we should have had this information long before the  administration started bombing boats that they could have chosen to  interdict or stop in other ways. This bill should not be necessary, but  I do thank my friend from North Carolina for introducing it and  recognizing that we should have a basic understanding of any  organization that we are going to take military action against.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 4070. This  legislation is an important first step in combating an FTO, foreign  terrorist organization, that has embedded itself in our community. We  see firsthand stories of the violent crimes that these organizations  are associated with: robbery, kidnapping, assault, and murder.

I thank Mr. Knott for introducing this legislation. I wholeheartedly  support this legislation. I ask my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle to please support this legislation.