Return the United States to A Balanced Budget


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688262/return-the-united-states-to-a-balanced-budget


Mr. SHREVE. Mr. Speaker, during our district workweek this past week,  I had the opportunity to visit with Hoosiers across Indiana's Sixth  District. I applied my first in-district workweek traveling from  Indianapolis to Columbus and points in between. It was great to hear  directly from Hoosiers about their priorities and listening to the  issues that are important to them.

Above all else, in this role, our job as Representatives is to listen  to our constituents. I was honored to attend the Indiana National Guard  change of command ceremony, at which Brigadier General Lawrence  Muennich assumed command from Major General Dale Lyles, making General  Muennich the 60th Adjutant General of Indiana's National Guard.

I met with constituents from the Indiana Railroad Association and the  Indiana Trucking Association. The district that I represent literally  lies at the crossroads of America, and industries such as these  represent key parts of the lifeblood of our economy.

Indiana's Sixth continues to be home to safe and prosperous  communities in which to raise families. It was highlighted by my visit  with the leadership of Franklin College and a number of state of the  city addresses that occur in the month of January, including  Greenwood's, where I attended Mayor Mark Myers' 14th state of the city  address.

I visited with the leadership of Cummins Engine Company,  headquartered in the district. I toured their cutting-edge engineering  facility at their Cummins Engine plant.

I toured Rolls Royce and their massive aircraft engine design and  manufacturing facility, where they are at the leading edge of military  aircraft production for our national defense.

I also visited with SABIC, a company in Bartholomew County that is  part of a global plastics industry.

At each of these companies in my district, I witnessed the best of  Indiana: highly-skilled, hardworking Hoosiers who are contributing to  the success and the defense of our country.

Above all, I heard a common theme as I traveled my district: Let's  bring more Hoosier common sense to Washington.

Mr. Speaker, that is the commitment I made, and that is what I will  continue to do.