-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698511/9999


Mr. KELLY. Mr. President, exactly 5 years ago today, I, as well, was  in this Chamber, listening to my colleagues debate something that never  should have been in question--the validity of the electoral votes from  my State of Arizona. We had just returned from the House Chamber, where  we were supposed to be carrying out one of the most basic  responsibilities of our democracy, and that is certifying the results  of a free and fair election. Then, with no evidence and no shame,  Republican Members of Congress challenged Arizona's votes. They were  trying to discard the will of voters in my State because they just  didn't like the outcome.

I was sitting right here in this seat, next to my friend Cory Booker.  We knew it wasn't a typical day. We had seen the large protests  gathering outside the Capitol, and we knew the President was holding a  rally and repeating his lies that, by the way, he still continues to  repeat today--his lies that the election was stolen from him. But here  in the Senate we were just doing our jobs in following the Constitution  and participating in the peaceful transfer of power. Then things  started to change. Information came in pieces, and we could hear noise  building outside the building. It became clear very quickly that  something was wrong.

Vice President Pence was sitting where the Presiding Officer is  sitting, and he was quickly ushered out of the room. It happened very  fast. Staff began to come in from outside the Chamber while a Senator  was still speaking. I was sitting right here, speaking to an intern who  was shaking uncontrollably with fear. It was unusual and concerning,  but we still did not understand the scale of what was happening beyond  these walls.

(Mr. CURTIS assumed the Chair.)

At 1:56 p.m., my brother, Scott, texted me two words: ``chaos  outside''--no explanation, no context.

I texted him back: ``What is going on out there?''

He asked whether I was safe and where my car was parked.

Then the messages kept coming from my brother: ``Protesters climbing  the walls of the Capitol. Protesters fighting with police inside.''

He used the word ``protesters.'' We would all come to later learn  that maybe ``rioters'' or ``insurrectionists'' would have been more  accurate.

I have to say, I could not believe what my brother was saying. So I  asked him to clarify. I said, ``At the Capitol?'' because after  everything I have seen in my life, the idea that a mob could breach the  U.S. Capitol was something I never thought I would ever witness in our  country.

This situation was escalating very fast. Capitol Police made the call  to evacuate, and we trusted them with our safety. Only later did we  fully understand how close this came to something far worse. We didn't  know that our colleague, the man who formerly had the Presiding  Officer's seat in the Senate, Mitt Romney, was literally running for  his life. He was a target because he had the courage--he had the  courage--to speak the truth about the results of an election.

We didn't know that, at that very moment, Capitol Police officers  were being pinned in doors, being beaten with flagpoles, and being  attacked with bear spray. We didn't know that Officer Eugene Goodman  was making a split-second decision to lead a group of the rioters away  from the doors of this very Chamber, and we had seen that video from  Igor Bobic of the Huffington Post that he had taken of that chase at  great risk to his own personal safety.

I am going to read you a quote here:

The doors that lead into the Senate . . . are made of       nothing but glass, mostly glass. So they're easily       breachable. And if those doors had been breached, more than       likely there would have been gunfire at that point.

This is a quote. These are the words of Inspector Thomas Lloyd of the  U.S. Capitol Police, as reported in a new book by Mary Jalonick of the  Associated Press. Gunfire--in this room--to protect Senators from  getting hurt or worse. That is how close we were. Let's call it what it  was. This was an insurrection--an insurrection aimed at stopping the  peaceful transfer of power, an insurrection aimed at overturning a free  and fair election.

Five years ago on January 6, this did not happen spontaneously. It  did not happen by accident. It happened because the current President  of the United States and former President Donald Trump refused to  accept that he had lost. So when people minimize January 6 or try to  rewrite what happened, I cannot accept that, and neither should any of  us.

No one has done more than Donald Trump. He has used the powers of his  office to hand out pardons--pardons to let people off who attacked  police officers. I am the son of two cops. He pardoned over 1,000  individuals. Many of them attacked cops in and around this building. It  is insulting to me and to law enforcement officers across our Nation.

These pardons, by the way, they do not just erase sentences; they  send a message. And the message is: It is OK for you to commit violent  acts as long as they are to support Donald Trump.

And in the years since these pardons, we have now seen exactly who  these people are. Christopher Moynihan, who breached the Capitol 5  years ago today and came into this very room, he later threatened to  kill House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries.

John Banuelos, who fired a gun during the insurrection, was later  arrested for kidnapping in the Presiding Officer's State of Utah.

Edward Kelley is serving a prison term through 2061 for developing a  plan to murder law enforcement officers while he was being investigated  for his role on January 6.

And many more have gone on to commit new and violent crimes.

These are the people that Donald Trump pardoned. We know who Donald  Trump is. We know he won't take responsibility for this. I am under no  illusion. We also know that he is not the man to unite our country, and  I do not expect him to change.

We also can't expect these challenges to our democracy to be solved  by somebody else or just go away with time. So we have to start being  honest about what happened and clear about who caused it, which I think  is why we are here today--because this insurrection didn't happen far  away. An election wasn't almost overturned on another continent. Police  officers weren't beaten in a foreign capital, and guns weren't drawn in  some other senate somewhere else.

It all happened right here. It happened in the United States of  America. It happened in this room. And fortunately, it failed here. But  don't forget why this failed. This failed because of patriotic police  officers. It failed because the will of the American people was  stronger than an angry mob and stronger than Donald Trump.

But now the question is: If this happens again, will this fail?  Democracy is not self-executing. It depends on leaders who tell the  truth, respect the will of the people and the rule of law, and put the  Constitution ahead of their own ambition. And it depends on every  American being involved and holding their elected leaders accountable.

If we do that, if all of us do that, I know that our democracy can  remain strong. We can get through this.

This year, we celebrate 250 years of American democracy. What a  remarkable achievement. There is nothing our country can't do when we  work together. I know that the future of this country and our democracy  is bright, but all of us--every single one of us in this Chamber on  both sides of the aisle--have to remain committed to it.

Mr. President, I know you are, and so many of us are as well.