Alex Padilla


Mr. KELLY. Mr. President, I have to say this week stood out for me  personally with some positive notes and some real downers.

The week didn't start great. We saw the President of the United  States--for the first time, I think, in possibly my lifetime--send  troops without a request from the Governor into a State because people  were protesting.

And, sure, some could make an argument that maybe a few protesters  got over somebody's perceived line, but they were largely peaceful  protests.

What the President did is beyond his authority. It is illegal. And it  was not a good start to the week, I have to say.

I also have to say there was some positive things this week. I got to  meet your grandson. I think he said he was 15 years old. He got to go  to the Air and Space Museum, a place that I love, a place that makes  our country stand out in the best of ways. It shows what we can do when  we work together, when we bring the full force of the United States  behind doing things that are positive.

We sent people to the Moon in the 1960s. Your grandson got to see  some of that hardware over at the Air and Space Museum.

But I also have to say that the end of this week was rather  outrageous and horrific, and it was brought to the American people, I  strongly believe, because of the attitude of this President and his  ability to just work outside of the boundaries of what most Americans  feel are in accordance with our values and our ethics.

What happened today to Senator Padilla was outrageous. It was  violent. It is a scary thing to see happen in the United States of  America.

Alex Padilla is a great guy. He is thoughtful. He is passionate. He  is just trying to serve his constituents in the best way he knows how  by doing the thing that is in our Constitution--freedom of speech,  article I--by exercising his constitutional rights and his rights as a  U.S. Senator to ask some questions of government officials. He was  doing his job.

His job is oversight, oversight of the Department of Homeland  Security. This is in a Federal building, and this didn't happen in  isolation. The Trump administration has arrested a mayor and a Member  of Congress and a labor leader.

The other day, I think, I mentioned the one highlight of this week,  which was your grandkid, and the low light--besides this, at the end of  the week--is what happened at Fort Bragg the other day: the President  of the United States going to a U.S. military base and using soldiers  as political props.

That is not who we are as a country. And I have to say, what I saw  today is leading us down a dangerous path, and we cannot retreat to  partisan corners. Senator Schatz mentioned that, other than the  Presiding Officer, I don't think there are any other Republicans  showing outrage for one of their colleagues on the other side of the  aisle being violently handled by law enforcement.

This is wrong. This is not putting our country first. And I have to  say, I hope we can turn things around here in the coming weeks. But in  my lifetime, and certainly in my time in public office and in my time  serving this country, I have never seen anything like I have seen this  week.