Trump Administration


Mr. KELLY. Will the Senator yield for a question?

Mr. KELLY. Senator Merkley, I appreciate everything you are doing to  highlight the many ways that this President has been undermining the  Constitution and the rule of law.

We have now experienced about 9\1/2\ months of this Presidency, and I  am going to ask you a question about one thing in particular, and it is  about the U.S. military and the leadership of the U.S. military.

But I want to kind of set the stage here a little bit. The United  States has the most lethal military in the history of the world. The  President presiding right now has experienced that as a U.S. Navy SEAL,  I myself as a pilot flying off of an aircraft carrier in the first gulf  war. No nation--at least today--matches the combat capability, the  professionalism, the effectiveness of the U.S. Navy, Air Force, Army,  Marine Corps, and now Space Force. And I will include the Coast Guard,  too, because we like to count the Coast Guard, especially when they  partnered with us on things that really mattered to the United States.

You know, one of those that I would like to discuss, where we should  see more involvement from the Coast Guard, is what we are currently  seeing in the Caribbean with regards to drug trafficking, which is a  problem and presents a clear and present danger to the citizens of this  country, and it is something we need to do more about.

I was on one of the cable shows last night, talking about this  specific issue. So to date, there have been 6 or 7 strikes in the  Caribbean that have killed 32 people, and, you know, some of those were  trafficking drugs.

Those routes, by the way, Senator Merkley, are used generally to  traffic cocaine and marijuana through the Caribbean, to Caribbean  islands and on to Europe. They are not the routes that traffic fentanyl  to the United States.

And over the last 6 weeks or so, we have conducted kinetic strikes  against these boats without what I recognize as the legal authority to  do so. It is not something I have seen in my experience in the U.S.  Navy--I spent 25 years in the U.S. Navy--that I have seen during my  career. I am now retired. But during my career, I never saw a President  command the Department of Defense to do things that I felt were outside  the boundaries of what we would consider illegal action against people.

We have traditionally done this with the U.S. Coast Guard, sometimes  in conjunction with the U.S. Navy. We are in a partnership. They do  what we would call law enforcement. And members of the Coast Guard come  aboard Navy ships. We interdict drugs that are coming through the  Caribbean or, more often, on the pacific side, on the western side of  Mexico, up into California, and we interdict those drugs, and then we  prosecute those individuals.

And, in my view, I think the administration has not made a case to  the U.S. Congress and to the American people as to why this is a legal  action.

A couple of weeks ago, when we were being briefed on this, I felt  that they were pretty much tying themselves into a knot in trying to  inform us on why this is allowed under the law.

Now, here is one of the things I really worry about. I worry about  these young sailors or naval aviators or drone operators that are the  trigger pullers, the guys who are dropping the small-diameter bombs  from airplanes. It could be an F-18 or an F-35 or some other weapons  system or folks that are operating an MQ-9 drone.

If you are the guy that is pulling the trigger in a combat operation,  you typically expect that the people above you have done all the due  diligence necessary to make sure that you are not going to be in some  kind of legal jeopardy. And I really worry about that today.

There might be some young Navy lieutenant out there or Marine Corps  captain or Air Force, for all I know, a MQ-9 operator, that might  someday find out that they have done something that is not consistent  with the law, and they are now in legal jeopardy. And that is a big  problem.

I never saw that during my 25 years in the U.S. Navy. The two ships I  sunk in the Persian Gulf, not for one second did I feel like I was  getting some bad information from the battle group or from anybody  above in the chain of command, whether it was General Schwarzkopf or  Colin Powell or the President of the United States, George Herbert  Walker Bush. It was not a concern of ours. It is a concern today.

And I can tell you, as I watch this from my vantage point on the  Intelligence Committee and on the Armed Services Committee, there are  members of our military that are now in some sort of potential future  legal jeopardy. And it is because we have a President that I believe  doesn't do his homework, doesn't follow norms, and possibly is making  decisions that are not legal.

(Mr. BANKS assumed the Chair.)

We have seen the politicalization of the U.S. military over the last  9 months. That really disturbs me--the speech in Quantico where the  Secretary of Defense dragged in hundreds of our senior leadership from  all over the world, admirals and generals and senior enlisted staff who  have very important jobs, who are working every single day to make sure  that our Nation and our allies are safe and secure and have to make  some really complicated decisions every day about the posture of force,  how to equip them, make sure they are ready to fight--and the Secretary  of Defense, for some reason, decides that he needed to give a TED talk  about gym clothes and PT and other stuff that has no bearing on whether  or not we are a capable military.

I don't know why he feels this way. But in my experience, from the  time I first put on the uniform in 1986 to the time I took it off in  2011 and then beyond since I have been retired from the U.S. Navy, our  effectiveness has never been diminished. Our innovation and our  professionalism and our ability to train well is something that really  makes us stand out.

I have experience with some of our allies, but I also have a little  bit of experience with our adversaries. While I was at NASA flying the  Space Shuttle over a decade--first flight in 2001 to my last in 2011-- every one of my missions I had a lot of interactions with Russian  cosmonauts. Most of these Russian cosmonauts--not all of them but  most--were members of the Russian Air Force, pilots, some of them test  pilots.

I flew with these guys. They weren't the best pilots in the world, I  have to admit. I was shocked the first time I flew with a guy who I  will not share his last name. His first name was Vladimir. But I was  really shocked that this guy who was a MiG-25 pilot could not fly  formation in an airplane, something so fundamental and basic to a  military pilot, that they did not train enough to be capable enough to  do something that was so fundamental to be an effective fighter pilot.

And then after--that was early in my NASA career. Later, as I started  flying to space with these guys, I realized that Russians and the  Russian military, in particular--because that is where my experience  was with these military guys--they were motivated by different things.  It explains a lot of what I see out of Russia today.

Now, as Americans, whether you are in the U.S. Navy, whether you are  a naval aviator or in the Air Force, Army, Marine Corps, Space Force,  even in U.S. industry and in organizations in the United States, and I  don't think this is unique to us, but everybody doesn't share this  value: Americans are  usually most motivated by mission success. We care about the mission  first. We care about the mission before ourselves. We care about the  mission more than anything. I think it is true for American companies,  too, that they have a set of goals, and they have a plan and they are  going to execute the plan.

It is not true of our Russian adversaries. It took me a while to  learn this, but I found that they were motivated primarily by a couple  of things: One was the appearance that they were in charge. That  mattered to them more than anything else, that I look like I am in  charge of whatever this operation is, not mission success. The second  thing would be who could I blame? If things go wrong, where to place  the blame. And the third thing, which was really interesting, was what  can I steal from my employer. That, to me, was three principles I saw  in my Russian cosmonaut colleagues.

They talked about the stealing. I wasn't sure they were actually  stealing anything from the Russian space agency or not, but they talked  about it as something that is fundamental to their system and their  economy.

I bring this up because I often feel that we are unique as a service,  as a fighting force in the world. Our allies--some of them are really,  really good. But there is nothing that I found in my experience in my  career--I am 61 years old--that is as professional as U.S.  servicemembers and as motivated by mission and doing the right thing  and making moral and ethical choices. And that is all at risk.

In Senator Merkley's State, in Portland, they are sending armed  uniformed soldiers to do what we traditionally feel is police work-- intimidating the population, using tear gas against U.S. citizens for  no reason. By the way, National Guard and Active-Duty servicemembers  are not trained for this mission.

In my 25 years in the Navy, I never once did anything that you would  consider to be close to police work. I would know. I am the son of two  cops, so I would get a sense for what that was. It never happened. And  unless you are a military policeman, it doesn't happen for infantrymen,  for special ops or submariners, and certainly not for Active-Duty  infantry.

So at this time in our history, I am really worried about legal  jeopardy that our young servicemembers have been put in. But I am also  worried about, does this fundamentally change the nature of the U.S.  military, which has been, in my view, a force for good around the  world, where we come to the defense of our allies and we do it in a way  that garners a tremendous amount of respect, I think, even from our  adversaries. I think that is all at risk.

So I wanted to ask Senator Merkley: You have been here 16 years now  in the U.S. Senate. You have tremendous experience at this. My  understanding is, you have a very close relationship with the people  you represent in Oregon. How worried are you about the changes that  could happen to the U.S. military?

And also, I am interested in what are you hearing from your  constituents about this. They have been the focus and have been  highlighted by this administration, not just this year but in Donald  Trump's first Presidency as well.

I yield back to the Senator from Oregon.