Weapons Sales


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701715/weapons-sales


Mr. KELLY. Mr. President, later today, we are going to take a vote on  the delivery of bulldozers and 1,000-pound bombs to Israel. First, let  me say that I cannot and will not abandon Israel. Israel is one of our  closest partners. They have a right to defend themselves, and I will  always support Israel's right to exist as a successful and prosperous  nation.

As the Israeli people face the threat of missile and rocket attacks  from Iran and its proxies, that support continues to be important  today. Supporting a partner doesn't mean that we don't ask tough  questions, and it doesn't mean that we always agree.

Our support for our allies must always be about what makes us  stronger and safer, and we can look at what is happening in the region  right now and understand that this is not business as usual, and it is  not making us safer.

The United States and Israel are fighting a war against Iran without  a clear strategy or goal. I have been clear that I oppose this war in  Iran and the reckless decisions being made by Prime Minister Netanyahu  and President Trump.

Under Prime Minister Netanyahu's government, we have seen an expanded  war in Lebanon that is putting innocent Lebanese civilians at risk and  ongoing violence against Palestinians and their homes being demolished  in the West Bank. All of this--all of this--has undermined the path  forward for peace.

That matters when we are making decisions about sending these  weapons, including bulldozers, that could be used to level more homes  and put a two-state solution further at risk.

I flew 39 combat missions in Operation Desert Storm. I have been  trusted with the grave responsibility of using deadly force against our  enemies. It is not something I take lightly. Neither is the  responsibility we have here.

That is the lens I have looked at these two votes through. We are in  a moment where we have to ask ourselves: Does this bring us closer to  peace and security?

So, today, I have decided to vote yes on these resolutions to stop  these transfers. Our partnership matters for Israel and for the United  States. I have been clear about that, and I will continue to be.

Israel must maintain the capabilities and means to protect its  people. I am confident they can do that today and will be able to do so  in the future with our partnership, and I will always support that.

We have to work together toward a future where the Jewish State of  Israel is secure and where there is a durable peace in the region.