Airspace Location and Enhanced Risk Transparency Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701680/airspace-location-and-enhanced-risk-transparency-act-of-2026


Mr. CARSON. Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman Graves, my friend Ranking  Member Larsen, and the wonderful staff for their leadership and their  partnership, which has allowed our committee to mark up our bill, the  ALERT Act, and bring it to the floor today.

The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee worked together in a  bipartisan way with our Armed Services Committee colleagues to  collaborate and produce a comprehensive bill that addresses and  implements all of NTSB's 50 recommendations in the DCA collision  report, not just a few.

The terrible midair collision at DCA on January 29 last year still  haunts all of us. I also want to take a moment to recognize the family  members who lost their loved ones. I continue to mourn the loss of the  67 people who died that day, including Asra Hussain from Carmel,  Indiana.

Family members have turned their pain into great power and advocacy,  and they have helped us to keep working on a bill that is comprehensive  and will make long overdue changes to improve safety.

Today's bill will save lives, and it addresses all of NTSB's  recommendations to fix problems that have been ignored for far too  long. It requires ADS-B In and collision prevention technology with a  hard deadline. It enhances air traffic control training and  procedures, including time-on position limits. It modernizes ATC  facilities and technology. It addresses deficiencies in the safety  cultures at DOT, FAA, and DOD. It strengthens the traffic management  and safety of the national airspace and the DCA area, including  assessing volume, aircraft arrival rates, and regular review of  helicopter routes in the area.

Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join us in passing this  remarkable bill that we have all worked so hard to improve and to bring  to a vote. I would also like to thank the Subcommittee on Aviation  staff, both Democratic and Republican, for their  hard work, late nights, and long weekends to help us bring this to the  floor today. Let's pass this bill.