Designating the House Press Gallery in the United States Capitol As the ``Frederick Douglass Press Gallery''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692225/designating-the-house-press-gallery-in-the-united-states-capitol-as-the-frederick-douglass-press-gallery


Mr. CARSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 137, which was  approved unanimously by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee  in April.

It has been a pleasure to work with my Transportation and  Infrastructure colleague, the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Owens), to help  advance this bill through our markup and to the floor today. We are  both original cosponsors of this resolution from the gentleman from  Florida, Mr. Donalds.

H. Res. 137 will rename the House Press Gallery for an amazing  American, Frederick Douglass.

Many know Douglass as an abolitionist and orator. Formerly enslaved,  he emancipated himself.

Yet many don't know Douglass as a journalist. He first worked with  William Lloyd Garrison's abolitionist newspaper, The Liberator.

Then, he founded and published his own newspaper, The North Star. The  title recognized the way so many former slaves found liberation--by  following the North Star to freedom. After the Civil War, Douglass  published other newspapers, like The New National Era, a Black weekly  newspaper. Douglass and his sons covered Congress for this publication.

Frederick Douglass was the very first Black man to report on Congress  and be allowed into the Capitol press gallery, where he was a member  from 1871 to 1875. He covered the critical debates in Congress during  reconstruction, including developments on the 13th, 14th and 15th  Amendments to the Constitution.

There is a plaque and a painting of Douglass in the Press Gallery.  But it's past time for a permanent recognition of his groundbreaking  and legendary work by renaming the House Press Gallery the Frederick  Douglass Press Gallery.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting  passage of this resolution.