Recognizing the 5th Anniversary of January 2021


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698532/recognizing-the-5th-anniversary-of-january-2021


Mr. CARSON. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in recognition of the 5th  anniversary of a day that shook our Nation--the violent assault on the  United States Capitol. On January 6, 2021, an armed mob stormed the  people's house in an assault on our democracy, the rule of law, and the  peaceful transfer of power.

On January 6, 2021, insurrectionists targeted Congress and our  country's leaders. This included me, when a man drove across the  country to the Capitol and was eventually brought to justice for his  crimes. He was indicted, convicted and imprisoned on 17 gun and  ammunition charges after police found an arsenal of explosive devices,  firearms, and other weapons in his truck, along with a hit list of  targets, which included my name and the notation ``one of two Muslims  in the House of Reps.'' Rioters also targeted my fellow Hoosier, Vice  President Mike Pence, erecting a noose and gallows on Capitol grounds  with calls to ``Hang Mike Pence.''

That hellish day, the Capitol Police and first responders put their  lives on the line to save ours, and they deserve our endless thanks.  Today, my Democratic colleagues and I proudly display a plaque outside  our offices that memorialize those who fought for our capitol and were  injured or lost their lives.

But simply honoring those officers with words is not enough. We must  honor them with our actions--rejecting misinformation, upholding the  integrity of our elections, and ensuring no one is above the law. As  soon as President Trump was sworn in the second time, he took the  unprecedented action of pardoning all January 6 rioters, including the  man who was convicted and imprisoned after targeting me. Since their  release, at least 23 individuals have re-offended and committed crimes  that include plotting the murder of FBI agents, violent assault,  strangulation, possession of child sexual abuse material, and reckless  DUI homicide.

Despite the clear evidence of crimes committed by these individuals-- on January 6, 2021, and after--President Trump continues to defend  insurrectionists but demonize immigrant neighbors who have committed no  violent crimes and are being denied due process. Immigration arrests  under the Trump administration average 30,000 a month--and yet, less  than 5 percent of those individuals have been convicted of a crime.

This sober anniversary is a moment of reflection, especially for  those of us who were working at the Capitol that day. It is also a day  of resolve and rededication--to make sure nothing like this happens  again. We must defend our democracy and our democratic institutions,  protect the rights of due process, and create peace through justice for  every American.