Reintroduction of the Justice for Shireen Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699427/reintroduction-of-the-justice-for-shireen-act


Mr. CARSON. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to reintroduce the Justice for  Shireen Act today. I thank my House Colleagues who joined me in calling  for a report to Congress from the FBI and State Department, in  consultation with the Attorney General, Secretary of Defense and  Director of National Intelligence, on the death of American-Palestinian  Journalist, Shireen Abu Akleh. I send my deep condolences to the Abu  Akleh family for this terrible killing and continue to stand with them  to demand justice and accountability.

Shireen Abu Akleh, an American-Palestinian Journalist, was killed on  May 11, 2022. She was killed while wearing a clearly marked press vest  on assignment, reporting on a military raid that took place in the  Israeli occupied city of Jenin. Shortly after her death, I led a  letter, signed by 58 Members of Congress, to the FBI and State  Department calling for an independent and open investigation led by her  home country, the United States, and 24 Senators have echoed this  request. More than three years later, and we still do not have answers.  It is imperative that Congress receives the information needed to  conduct the necessary oversight. We must ensure no taxpayer dollars  contribute to human rights violations or anyone's death--most  especially an American abroad.

As an American, Ms. Abu Akleh was entitled to the full protections  afforded to U.S. citizens living abroad. As Members of Congress, we  need to uphold the values that our nation was founded on, including  human rights, equality for all, freedom of speech, and freedom of the  press. As Members of Congress, we have a duty to protect Americans  reporting abroad. An Israeli investigation was concluded, finding that  it was indeed an Israel Solider who shot Ms. Abu Akleh in her line of  duty. It is the responsibility of the U.S. to learn all the unanswered  questions leading up to, during and after the fatal shot that killed  Ms. Abu Akleh. Additionally, this bill requires an identification of  any United States defense materials or services that were implicated in  the death of Ms. Abu Akleh. No U.S. weapons or military services by the  U.S. should be used to kill Americans on foreign soil. American  taxpayers should not be paying for any violation of human rights  abroad.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in calling for justice  and accountability for Shireen Abu Akleh.