Reintroduction of the Resolution to Condemn the Ethnic Violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699456/reintroduction-of-the-resolution-to-condemn-the-ethnic-violence-in-the-democratic-republic-of-the-congo


Mr. CARSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to reintroduce my resolution  condemning the ethnic violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo  (DRC). Dr. King famously said, ``injustice anywhere is a threat to  justice everywhere.'' The United States, credible human rights  organizations, and civil society have documented and published reports  and findings that implicate the Democratic Republic of the Congo and  Rwanda in aiding and collaborating with armed groups and militias,  including several that are designated for United Nations sanctions due  to human rights violations.

Militias engage in illicit mining activities to finance and sustain  themselves, often exploiting child labor and engaging in environmental  degradation practices that undermine the DRC's economic interests and  international treaty obligations.

My resolution condemns all acts of violence perpetrated against  ethnic minorities throughout the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It  reaffirms that the United States has held and continues to hold the  governments of the DRC and Rwanda responsible for upholding the rights  of all citizens, regardless of ethnicity, in accordance with  international obligations.

My timely resolution also holds accountable all state security forces  that perpetrate atrocities against the civilian population by  conducting transparent investigations and prosecutions and taking all  additional necessary measures to prevent further atrocities continue  progress toward the disarmament, demobilization, reintegration,  reparation, and resettlement of armed groups in coordination with the  United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic  Republic of Congo, as outlined in United Nations Security Council  Resolution 2666 (2022). Last, it calls on President Donald Trump to  appoint a Special  Envoy to the Great Lakes region of Africa, which will be vital to  addressing the enduring regional security crisis emanating from eastern  DRC.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in condemning the  ethnic violence in the DRC.