Rotorcraft Operations Transparency and Oversight Reform Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700106/rotorcraft-operations-transparency-and-oversight-reform-act


Mr. CARSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak about the terrible midair  collision at DCA on January 29, 2025. I continue to mourn the loss of  67 people who died because of this tragedy, including Asra Hussain,  from Carmel, Indiana. The House needs to pass a comprehensive,  bipartisan solution that will implement all 50 of the NTSB's  recommendations, and which provides a holistic framework for  meaningful, system-wide safety improvements.

I commend my Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman and  Ranking Member, Sam Graves and Rick Larsen. They worked tirelessly to  produce a bill that will implement all 50 safely recommendations from  the NTSB, which just released their final report on January 29th. As  the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, I'm proud to join them  as an original cosponsor of the ALERT Act, with our colleagues from the  Armed Services Committee, Chairman Mike Rogers and Ranking Member Adam  Smith, and many other colleagues.

Mr. Speaker, the House needs to follow regular order. Today's bill  was added to the suspension calendar over the concerns of the Chairs  and Ranking Members of the Committees of Jurisdiction. This bill has  been mysteriously held and stuck at the desk since December--without  being referred to the Transportation Committee or the Armed Services  Committees for consideration, markup, and amendments. Yet, as soon as  our two committees introduced a comprehensive safety bill, the Speaker  green lights the other chamber's bill to fly off the desk and bypass  our committees. That's not regular order, and it's not right. Our  carefully crafted joint Transportation and Armed Services bill should  not be railroaded out of floor consideration because of some backroom  deal. Under regular order, our Committee should be able to bring our  House bill, the ALERT Act, to the House floor before a Senate bill is  pushed ahead of us. Especially when it's an incomplete bill.

Unlike the ALERT Act, which implements every one of NTSB's safety  recommendations, the ROTOR Act addresses just seven of the 50  recommendations. While the ROTOR Act is a good first step, it doesn't  fix the massive systemic problems that resulted in a crash that was 100  percent preventable. Safety is too important to break the rules and  ignore regular order. I urge the Speaker to refer this bill to our  Committee for consideration and markup.