Economic Populism


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, let me just say a thank-you to my colleague  from Pennsylvania, who at his roots understands the plight of working  Americans, middle-class families, working families, and the vulnerable  and stands tall on their behalf and wants to utilize the good offices  of this institution to make sure that it does what the Founding Fathers  intended it to do, and that is to provide opportunity for people in  this Nation. That is what my friend, Congressman Deluzio, is all about.

One thing about this current administration is clear. They are doing  nothing about the cost-of-living crisis in  this Nation, which is getting worse. President Trump said he will fight  for the working class, but instead put Elon Musk and billionaires in  charge of our government.

I applaud, again, Representative Deluzio for hosting this Special  Order about economic patriotism, taking on corporate power, as well as  for all his work supporting the right to organize, creating well-paying  union jobs here in America. High prices are devastating the middle  class, working class, and the vulnerable.

Since my very first day in the Congress, I have been focused on  lowering the cost of living for Americans who struggle to get by, and I  am appalled by how many families are struggling to afford basics while  corporations get bigger, richer, and more influential over our lives  than ever.

President Trump, as I said, campaigned on lowering prices and pledged  to bring food costs down on day one.

Instead, the opposite has happened. Food costs are rising. His own  USDA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, recently reported egg prices  could rise 41 percent over the next year. Since taking office, he has  done nothing to help families struggling at the grocery checkout.

As a result, big corporations are consolidating, creating monopolies,  and making unbelievable profits. Cal-Maine, which controls about one- fifth of the domestic egg market and is the largest producer and  distributor of shell eggs in the United States, has reported that its  profits through the second quarter of the 2025 fiscal year are 342  percent higher than the same period last year.

Instead of doing anything to address this cost-of-living crisis, the  President has stacked his Cabinet with billionaire after billionaire,  empowering them to slash the programs American families rely on with no  oversight and no disclosures about the conflicts of interest. Elon  Musk, the unchecked billionaire leading the efforts to end Social  Security as we know it, owes the success of his company to billions in  Federal contracts and huge factories in China. Yet he refuses to answer  any questions from Congress about his investments.

These issues concern every American. Democrats are standing up for  them. We are standing up against the blatant corruption of this  administration, the giant corporations padding their profits at the  expense of the middle class and the working class. The Republican focus  is to rip away programs like Social Security and Medicaid.

The fact is that American families today are living paycheck to  paycheck. Some of the biggest corporations in the country are taking  advantage of it, all while Americans are paying more for less due to  corporate price gouging and shrinkflation while the CEOs of the  Nation's largest grocery stores and supermarkets rake in record  salaries.

I just came from a congressional hearing of our Democratic Steering  and Policy Committee on food prices and food stamps. I listened to the  stories of working Americans with families who are hard-pressed and  were frightened to death of a $230 billion cut to the Food Stamp  program which would end that lifeline for themselves and for their  families.

Last year, the FTC identified that large grocery store chains  exploited the product shortages due to the pandemic by raising prices  significantly more than needed to cover their added costs, and they  have continued to increase their profits.

What is the Republicans' response to this cost-of-living crisis  driven by corporate consolidation and power?

Why, it is to give out even more corporate tax cuts, of course, $4.5  trillion worth of them to be precise, paid for by slashing Medicaid  which serves nearly one-third of all Americans.

Enough is enough. It is time for this Congress and it is time for  Democrats to act to rein in this habitual price gouging from massive,  massive corporations, rein in the unchecked billionaires enriching  themselves while Americans suffer, and rein in Republican spending  while targeting Social Security and Medicaid.

If the Trump administration continues to prioritize tax cuts for the  rich over price cuts for the middle class, then I will continue to  stand with my colleagues as we call out their broken promises and fight  back against their disastrous policies.

There is another path forward, one which Democrats and Republicans  could take together. It is a path of economic patriotism where we take  on corporate monopolies and the self-serving billionaires who are  squeezing the middle class, the working class, and the vulnerable. It  is a path that listens to the American people and protects programs  like Medicaid and Social Security while lowering the cost of living  through proven policies like the expanded child tax credit which lifted  one-half of our children in this Nation out of poverty, lowered the  hunger rate, and provided a path forward in economic security for  millions of families in the United States.

That is the path that I am taking. It is the path that I know my  colleague, Congressman Deluzio, is taking, and I hope that my  colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join us in this effort.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for organizing this effort.