Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chair, I want to thank all of the Energy and Water  appropriations subcommittee staff for their hard work, in particular  Scott McKee, Anisha Singh, and Adam Wilson.

I am opposed to this bill. Not only will it raise energy costs for  American households and businesses, hurt our competitiveness,  jeopardize our energy independence and weaken our national security, we  are holding this debate weeks before the end of the fiscal year, with  no path forward to prevent a shutdown and Congress's authority being  attacked by unchecked Office of Management and Budget Director Russ  Vought and a lawless Administration.

Since taking office, the Trump Administration has stolen resources,  appropriated by this committee, for programs and services across the  federal government that help to grow the middle class, protect the  working class, support small businesses, and make sure billionaires and  corporations play by the rules and pay their fair share.

The cost-of-living crisis is felt by every American family--middle  class families, working families, rural families, seniors and other  vulnerable Americans. But the president is not laser focused on the  cost of-living crisis.

President Trump has attacked and destroyed programs created by  Congress and funded by the Appropriations Committee that protect our  national security and help increase domestic energy production. They  are substituting Congress' decisions and judgment with their own,  turning Article I of the Constitution on its head.

These cuts are not only felt in Washington, D.C. They affect all of  our constituents.

Just a few months ago, states across New England, including my state  of Connecticut, were ready to begin an ambitious and collaborative  effort to increase energy transmission capacity across our region, to  build resiliency and lower energy bills.

Nearly $400 million was going to be invested through the Department  of Energy's Grid Innovation Program to provide onshore connections for  offshore wind power, improve the electric grid, and install energy  storage through a project called Power Up New England.

But the President's Day One executive order abruptly halted offshore  wind energy projects in their tracks, and the Department of Energy  froze Power Up New England's grant. That project was expected to bring  enough energy online to power about 2 million homes, and reduce energy  costs for customers by up to $1.5 billion per year.

Energy demand is higher than ever and only increasing. Cheap,  reliable energy is key to affordability. The future lies with low-cost  wind and solar, not more expensive oil, gas, and coal. We have to  increase energy supply or costs will continue to rise for the American  people--and we will be dependent on importing energy to meet our goals.

Instead of focusing on ways to help lower energy costs, House  Republicans are using this bill to further gut critical federal  resources and advance their own ideological agenda.

Their cut of nearly half the budget for Energy Efficiency and  Renewable Energy is a direct attack on the programs that lower energy  bills for working families, create good-paying jobs in our communities,  and keep America competitive.

This bill revokes funding that supports hydrogen energy, batten,  recycling, and energy improvements in public schools, as well as  support for public-private clean energy projects.

Their bill undermines the very programs that help us stop the spread  of nuclear weapons, detect nuclear activity, and uphold arms control  efforts that make America and the world safer--and it underfunds  efforts to clean up sites contaminated by our Nation's early atomic  energy program.

All of this after Republicans passed the Big Ugly Bill, a law that  gives massive tax breaks to billionaires and the biggest corporations  while driving up home energy bills for families by as much as 30  percent.

I cannot support this bill, and I urge my colleagues to vote NO.  Instead of working with Democrats to lower prices and invest in  technology that promotes our energy independence, House Republicans are  pushing a bill that raises energy costs for families and businesses,  and eliminates good-paying jobs.