Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chair, I thank the ranking member for yielding. I  thank all of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs  Subcommittee staff on both sides of the aisle for their work, and in  particular Farouk Ophaso and Tyler Coe.

I am opposed to this bill, which will transfer billions of taxpayer  dollars to private hospitals and clinics, leading to longer wait lines,  poorer communication and coordination, a diminished quality of care for  our veterans, and higher costs for taxpayers.

This is a step toward privatization of the Veterans Administration  because if you hollow out the Veterans Administration, if you make it  impossible for people to be able to access their benefits, then they  say: Well, we can't trust the VA. Then they will move in the direction  of privatization, and that is where this administration wants to go.

This bill would worsen the quality of life for servicemembers and  their families while putting veterans' safety at risk.

While our military faces massive recruitment challenges, the bill  underfunds military construction by nearly $1 billion, hurting our  recruitment and retention and undermining our military readiness. By  making it harder to keep guns out of the hands of those legally barred  from holding them, this bill endangers veterans' safety.

The bill leaves military installations, servicemembers, and their  families vulnerable to climate change and worsening natural disasters  by failing to include dedicated funding to strengthen our military  installations against these threats or to help them recover from past  disasters.

Defense leaders, including during President Trump's first term, have  warned of the danger that climate change poses to our military, and the  tens of billions of dollars in damage to military installations from  recent severe weather reinforces their point. Former Secretary James  Mattis warned that climate change threatened American interests and our  defense assets around the world and said climate change is ``a  challenge that requires a broader whole-of-government response.''

This bill attacks women veterans, who are the fastest growing group  served by the Department of Veterans Affairs, with a policy rider that  limits abortion access and prohibits abortion counseling. The women who  volunteer to serve and defend our Nation, to protect Americans' sacred  rights and freedoms, should not come home to find their medical care  and family planning decisions being made by anyone other than  themselves, their families, and their doctors.

These riders do nothing but put us on a path of partisan division  that will make it more difficult to come to an agreement on full-year  bills that can actually become law. Ending fiscal year 2025 with an  unprecedented full-year continuing resolution was a missed opportunity  to invest in our veterans and in our servicemembers. We should be  working toward a bipartisan bill that can actually pass this year.

Finally, the bill undercuts our commitments to our military partners.  The Trump administration has already done a masterful job at alienating  America on the world stage, turning our back on our closest allies.  This bill goes even further. It underfunds NATO, the infrastructure, by  almost $200 million. It undermines the infrastructure projects of our  own troops in Europe that they are relying on. Our credibility as a  national security partner has been trashed by this administration, and  now is not the time to retreat from our alliances even further.

The majority may suggest they are supporting veterans' needs with  this bill alone, but we all know that it does not contain all the  programs the most vulnerable of veterans depend on.

Programs and services from food assistance to education to health  research, which this administration has illegally frozen and  dismantled, and which their budget decimates funding for, support  veterans around the country. Losing that support means abandoning our  responsibilities and our promises to our Nation's veterans.

While I am glad that the Democrats on the Appropriations Committee  were  successful in shaming our colleagues across the aisle into amending  their original bill to include advance funding for the PACT Act, this  bill still fails too many veterans in too many ways, so I cannot  support it, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''