Recognizing the Honorable Steven ``steve'' Dargan, West Haven's 2025 Irish Person of the Year


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, it is with great pleasure that I rise today  to join the West Haven St. Patrick's Day Committee as well as city and  community leaders as they gather to honor our dear friend, Steven  ``Steve'' Dargan, as West Haven's 2025 Irish Person of the Year. This  special award is bestowed annually on a West Haven resident or couple  of Irish descent who personifies service in the city's close-knit Irish  community.

Steve hails from an ancestry whose legacy is woven into the tapestry  of the American story. Like so many of us, his family's story is one of  emigration--of leaving the only home you know to search out a better  life for yourselves and family. In the mid-1800s, Steve's paternal  great-grandparents, Pierce and Ellen Dargan, emigrated from Ireland to  the United States and settled in New Haven. His maternal grandparents,  John Glacken and the former Margaret McGowan, who left County Donegal  and Derry, Northern Island respectively, for America at different times  in the early 1900s. They met and married, first settling in Norwich  before making West Haven their home.

Steve was born in New Haven in 1955 to Margaret and Robert Dargan,  Jr. He and his siblings--Robert Dargan, III, Timothy Dargan and Mary  Margaret Dargan--were raised by their hardworking parents in a  traditional Irish Catholic household on Richards Place in the center of  West Haven. Steve attended public schools and graduated in 1973 from  West Haven High School, where he ran track. He also attended Quinnipiac  College. It was through his parents that Steve learned the importance  of giving back to his community and he took those lessons to heart,  dedicating most of his adult life to public service. In fact, his late  father, Robert, was honored with this same award in 2012, making them  the only father/son recipients its 32-year history.

Steve has represented his community as an appointed or elected leader  since he was 21 years old. He served on the City Council from 1985 to  1991 and the First Fire Taxation District's Board of Fire Commissioners  from 1980 to 2004. As a member of the Connecticut House, Steve  represented West Haven's 115th District from 1991 to 2017. For 20  years, he was a co-chair of the General Assembly's Public Safety and  Security Committee, which oversees all matters related to civil  preparedness, state and municipal police, and the overall safety of  residents. He also served on the Gaming Policy Task Force, the Police  Pursuit Task Force and the Private Security Personnel Task Force as  well as on the Executive and Legislative Nominations Committee and the  Insurance and Real Estate Committee. In January 2017, Steve resigned to  serve on the state Board of Pardons and Paroles, a seat which he still  holds.

In addition to his civil service, Steve has dedicated much of his  time and energy to a myriad of local organizations. He is a former  volunteer for West Haven Hook and Ladder Company 1, a longtime member  of the West Haven Irish American Club, a lifetime member of West  Haven's Elks Lodge 1537, and a former member of the Knights of St.  Patrick in New Haven, Connecticut's oldest continuously run Irish  society.

I would be remiss if I did not also take this opportunity to extend a  personal note of thanks to Steve for his many years of friendship and  support. Steve has always been known for his gregarious nature, ready  smile, and big heart. Elected to our respective seats, myself to  Congress and Steve to the General  Assembly, in the same year, we have developed a special kinship, rooted  in our passion for service and desire to make a difference in the lives  of others. I am so proud to stand today to extend my heartfelt  congratulations to Steve Dargan on this very special occasion. Steve  has dedicated a lifetime of service to the community he calls home, and  I cannot think of a more fitting accolade to recognize his dedication  and commitment.