Senate Amendment to H.R. 4


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, there is another critical point I must make  about the rescissions proposal that the House is now considering. OMB's  defiance of the norms around review of special messages and the law  mandating disclosure of apportionments appears to be designed to evade  review of the rescission proposals by the Congress, Congress's  watchdog, and the public alike.

Unlike in the past, OMB has refused to make the apportionments for  the accounts at issue available to the Government Accountability Office  for their required review under the Impoundment Control Act of 1974. In  its report to Congress on the June 3, 2025, special message proposing  these rescissions, the Government Accountability Office noted that for  ``previous special messages, GAO has reviewed updated apportionment  data to ensure [OMB's] instructions were consistent with the special  message.'' But for these rescissions proposals, OMB flat out refused  ``to provide GAO with updated apportionment data that would permit GAO  to conduct the same analysis for the President's special message of  June 3, 2025.''

This is unacceptable, and it is unlawful. In the FY 2022 and FY 2023  Consolidated Appropriations Acts, when I was chair of the  Appropriations Committee, Congress--on a bipartisan basis--required OMB  to post apportionments publicly. If OMB were obeying this law, then not  only would Congress and the GAO have critical information we needed to  consider the rescissions package before us, but the public would have  had the critical information they needed to share their opinions with  us about the impact of these cuts and any other funds OMB or these  agencies may be withholding in violation of the Impoundment Control  Act. Congress has required OMB to make this information public, and  once again, I urge OMB to comply with the law and do so--now.

And, yes, I know that OMB has made the wrongheaded argument to the  Committees that somehow apportionment decisions on congressionally  passed and duly enacted appropriations are both legally binding as well  as predecisional and deliberative, and that the requirement to post  such information is unconstitutional, but that is not so. OMB and  Director Vought continue to be deeply confused about the Constitution,  the rule of law, and foundational fiscal laws like the Antideficiency  Act and the Impoundment Control Act. The Constitution vested the power  of the purse in the Congress, not the President, and the Congress  assigned the President the responsibility to apportion appropriations  to protect Congress's power, not cede it to the Executive Branch. And  as the constitutional stewards of the power of the purse, Congress  can--through enacted laws--certainly require the apportionment  information to be published to the benefit of both the Congress and the  public, who deserve access to information about the use of taxpayer  dollars.

Finally, I must speak out against the pattern of unlawful impoundment  that is being led by OMB Director Russ Vought, who insists that there  is somehow a loophole in the Impoundment Control Act that permits the  Executive Branch to unilaterally cancel appropriations--that otherwise  expire under current law at the end of the fiscal year--by transmitting  a special message proposing rescissions late in the fiscal year and  withholding the amounts until they can no longer be used. But to quote  the late Justice Scalia, the Congress ``does not, one might say, hide  elephants in mouseholes.'' Indeed, unilateral actions by the Executive  Branch that would impound congressionally passed and duly enacted  appropriations is the very thing the Impoundment Control Act prohibits.

Director Vought refers to his unlawful maneuver as a ``pocket  rescission,'' which is just another name for unlawful impoundment. The  December 2018 Government Accountability Office legal opinion (B- 330330), requested jointly by then House Budget Committee Chairman  Steve Womack and Ranking Member John Yarmuth, is exactly right though  and confirms that the Impoundment Control Act bars this maneuver. The  Government Accountability Office stated unequivocally that ``[t]his  interpretation would, in effect, give the President power to amend or  to repeal previously enacted appropriations merely by calibrating the  timing of the submission of a special message'' and that ``[a]  withholding of this nature would be an aversion both to the  constitutional process for enacting federal law and to Congress's  constitutional power of the purse.'' As part of its analysis, the  Government Accountability Office reasons that ``[t]he plain language of  section 1012(b) provides that absent Congress's completion of action on  a rescission bill rescinding all or part of amounts proposed to be  rescinded within the prescribed 45-day period, such amounts must be  made available for obligation,'' which requires that the ``budget  authority must not be expired.'' And I remain in agreement with Senator  Lindsey Graham and Representative Hal Rogers, as the Senate Chairman  and House Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on State, Foreign  Operations, and Related Programs of the Appropriations Committees, when  they wrote in 2019 to President Trump that ``[w]e supported the budget  deal and did so in good faith. Preventing agencies from obligating such  large sums seems an abdication of this bipartisan agreement, and  Congress thus expressed strong opposition to this precise exercise last  year. Furthermore, the U.S. Government Accountability Office's December  2018 legal opinion concluded that the Congressional Budget and  Impoundment Control Act does not permit the withholding of funds  through their date of expiration and notes the President's  responsibility in ensuring prudent obligation of funds.''

Republicans and Democrats alike should reject this ploy for what it  is: a direct assault to Congress's Article I power. Allowing any  Administration to erase duly enacted funding through procedural delays  that amount to unlawful impoundment would destabilize the  appropriations process and corrode the separation of powers that the  Impoundment Control Act was enacted to defend.

I remind my colleagues that Congress alone holds the power of the  purse. It is right there  in the Constitution. Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 proclaims that  Congress, not the President, determines how the taxpayers' dollars are  spent. I urge my colleagues to reject this rule, which would  automatically adopt the rescissions package pursuant to the June 3,  2025, special message.