Concerns with H. Res. 939


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, impeachment is the most consequential tool  Congress to has protect our Nation from a president or other public  official who has betrayed their oath, abused their power, and committed  high crimes and misdemeanors against the American people. Impeachment  necessitates a deliberate process of investigation and a thorough  documentation of crimes committed  against the American people. I voted present on the motion to table  this impeachment resolution because it does not meet that high  standard.

It is clear that many members of the Trump Administration, including  President Donald Trump himself, are violating the law and the public's  trust in ways that should lead to an investigation on potential high  crimes and misdemeanors by the House Judiciary Committee. But bringing  an impeachment resolution to the floor mere hours after it has been  introduced and without any investigative report--as Congressman Green  is doing for the second time this Congress--sets a harmful precedent.  It undermines the ability of Congress to make a serious and well- documented case for impeachment against this or any future president.

President Trump was impeached twice during his first term, and I  voted to impeach him both times. We conducted a formal inquiry during  the first impeachment, where we subpoenaed witnesses and held public  hearings to demonstrate that the President had abused his power and  obstructed Congress. When President Trump was impeached a second time  for inciting an insurrection, the House Judiciary Committee completed  an investigative report that documented what Members of Congress and  our entire Nation witnessed on January 6, 2021. When the articles of  impeachment were brought to the floor a week later, almost every House  Democrat was a cosponsor. I presided over that vote in the House of  Representatives, with full confidence in the case we were presenting to  the American people.

The House of Representatives is currently controlled by President  Trump's Republican party, and their majority is unwilling to take even  the most basic step to hold Trump or anyone in his cabinet accountable  for illegal and unconstitutional actions. To be clear, the House of  Representatives has a duty to uphold our oath to defend the  Constitution from all enemies foreign and domestic. This obligation  includes the open, transparent process of Congressional hearings,  investigations, and subpoenas into potentially impeachable offenses.  The Republican majority controlling this Congress will not allow that  work to move forward.

In the face of this obstruction, I will continue to work with my  Democratic colleagues to document violations of the law by this  administration, submit briefings to the court to rein in their abuses,  and collect evidence to hold the President of the United States and his  officials accountable.