Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693150/condemning-the-violent-june-2025-riots-in-los-angeles-california


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H. Res.  516, the Condemning the violent June 2025 riots in Los Angeles,  California. It is deeply unfortunate that instead of working with  Democrats on a bipartisan resolution to condemn violence, Republicans  have instead written a partisan resolution designed to attack elected  officials in California. Furthermore, the resolution fails to recognize  the premature and escalatory deployment of the National Guard and  active-duty Marines by President Trump to Los Angeles.

When the House of Representatives passes a resolution regarding  current events, it should do its due diligence to cite the facts.  Unfortunately, it is clear the Republican majority had no interest in  accurately portraying the protests in Los Angeles when they wrote H.  Res. 516. Instead, the resolution perpetuates a false narrative about  Democratic elected officials in California. H. Res. 516 states that  local elected officials did not adequately respond to the bad actors  and trouble-doers. These claims are patently false. Mayor Karen Bass of  Los Angeles implemented a multi-day curfew and surged law enforcement  resources to downtown Los Angeles to maintain control of the situation.  This kept the situation contained to 10 blocks of the downtown area.

But even when the Los Angeles Chief of Police stated that the  demonstrations ``were nowhere near a level'' where the National Guard  was needed, President Trump disregarded his opinion and took the  escalatory action of deploying 2,000 members of the California National  Guard to Los Angeles. Then, on June 10, the President deployed 700  active-duty Marines. Our active-duty military has absolutely no legal  role in domestic law enforcement. Los Angeles County has 17,000 law  enforcement personnel who are well trained in crowd control. There was  no need for the National Guard or the Marines to be deployed by the  President, and his decision sets a dangerous precedent for the future.

Republicans had the opportunity to bring a resolution introduced by  my colleague, Representative Barragan, condemning violence and bad  actors, and thanking local law enforcement for their work. Instead,  Republicans chose to use the unrest in Los Angeles to play partisan  games and attack Democrats in California.

Mr. Speaker, it is our duty as public servants to tell the truth. We  should all stand for condemning violence, de-escalation of force, and  the right to peacefully protest. It is unfortunate that this resolution  walks away from these principles. I cannot support it.