Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699348/department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this bill.

This year, Minnesota has witnessed a state of unbelievable violence,  which has led to chaos and terror at the hands of President Trump and  DHS.

Minnesotans are being racially profiled on a mass scale, assaulted on  our streets, and kidnapped from our communities. Just the other day, a  5-year-old child was used as bait to get members of his household to  come out so masked people in front of this 5-year-old could handcuff  and carry family members away.

Masked Federal agents are seizing parents, yes, in front of terrified  children, and many of these people we are finding had no record and  were here legally.

American citizens and permanent residents are snatched from their  cars, and they are taken to detention centers. I worked on one case  this past weekend. It was cold, and a woman was warming up her car. She  was taken out of her car. She was taken to Whipple. Then she was taken  to Sherburne County and then back to Whipple again. Oh, and in between,  she had to go to the hospital because of a head injury, and her arms,  her wrists, might be suffering permanent damage. This was a citizen, a  citizen, mind you.

This is the worst case of mass civil rights violations by the Federal  Government in recent history.

Mr. Speaker, 2 weeks ago, Minnesota stood up to call out these  illegal abuses by masked Federal agents, and a citizen, a mother of  three in Minneapolis, Renee Good, was shot and killed.

It is happening right here, right now in Minnesota in the United  States of America, and it needs to stop now. Not one penny of our  taxpayer dollars should go to DHS while our constitutional rights are  being violated.

Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, in my last 30 seconds let me just say:  Vote no. Vote for our constitutional rights. Vote for due process. Vote  ``no'' on this bill.