Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698005/disinterment-of-remains-of-fernando-v-cota-from-fort-sam-houston-national-cemetery-texas


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the National  Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026 (NDAA).

The National Defense Authorization Act is an important piece of  annual legislation that governs the policies of the Department of  Defense and authorizes our common defense. It is deeply unfortunate  that Congress considers this year's NDAA amongst a steady stream of  alarming misuses of the U.S. Armed Forces by President Trump. While in  office, the President has issued unlawful orders, directed unlawful  deployments, and has unlawfully misused Congressionally appropriated  funds. President Trump has chronically abused his executive authority  as Commander in Chief, and I do not believe that Members of Congress  can divorce our consideration of this NDAA from the context of his  actions in the Oval Office. Let me provide just a few examples.

First, President Trump has ordered the U.S. military to strike  maritime vessels in the Western Hemisphere that the Trump  administration claims are carrying narcotics. These military activities  in the Caribbean have not been authorized by Congress, and the  administration has deliberately withheld information from Congress on  the nature of these strikes. I believe these to be extrajudicial  killings and they should end immediately. These strikes are occurring  amongst a large-scale military buildup in the Caribbean, the goals of  which have also not been adequately explained to Congress.

Second, the President has circumvented the authority of several state  governors and federalized the National Guard for the purposes of  deploying them in support of domestic law enforcement activities.  Domestic policing is not among the National Guard's core missions, and  the Posse Comitatus Act of 1878 prohibits the President from deploying  the U.S. military for domestic law enforcement missions unless the  Insurrection Act of 1807 has been invoked, which President Trump has  not done. These unlawful deployments are a serious misuse of the  National Guard for political purposes by President Trump and they  should end.

Finally, President Trump's Office of Management and Budget (OMB)  repeatedly violated Article 1 of the Constitution and appropriations  law. OMB has frequently directed the Department of Defense to withhold  funding to authorized programs against Congressional intention and  direction. During the longest federal government shutdown in history,  OMB directed the Department to unlawfully use money appropriated for  national security research and development projects to pay military  personnel. I support paying our troops in the event of a shutdown, but  the way OMB and the Department moved this funding was not legal.

These are just three examples in a very long list, but the fact is  that President Trump has a record of chronic unlawful misuse of our  military and national security assets. This is dangerous to our  national security, the future of our democracy, and this behavior is  directly relevant to whether Congress should endorse an NDAA that, in  my opinion, does not do nearly enough to reign in an Administration  that is increasingly out of control. Let me lay out several of my  concerns with this legislation.

First, this NDAA authorizes $890 billion in funding for the  Department of Defense, National Nuclear Security Agency, and other  national security agencies. This is approximately $8 billion above what  the President requested in his Fiscal Year 2026 Budget for national  security agencies. Additionally, the Trump administration received $156  billion in new mandatory defense funding through the Republican  reconciliation bill. I voted against providing the Administration with  that funding, and I believe it will give them too much flexibility in  supporting a broad range of the Administration's national security  priorities. However, Congress has yet to receive a final spend plan  from the Department that accounts for the full amount of that funding.  Given the broad increase in defense funding provided through  reconciliation, and my previously stated concerns about OMB's unlawful  approach to appropriations law, I do not believe that Congress should  authorize additional defense funding in the NDAA above the budget  request.

Second, I am concerned that this NDAA will enable the Trump  administration's continued misuse of the National Guard and active-duty  military for domestic law enforcement purposes. The bill codifies  portions of several of President Trump's executive orders regarding  U.S. military activity on the Southern Border, including the  administration's establishment of new National Defense Areas. It does  not provide clear statutory limits on the use of lethal military force  on U.S. soil, including narrow definitions of pressing circumstances,  judicial oversight where practical, immediate Congressional  notification, and independent after-action review. This NDAA needed to  provide clear limits on the President's border operations including  sunset provisions and reauthorization requirements. It fails to do so.  The NDAA also provides no restriction on the increasingly routine  federal use of the National Guard and active-duty forces. At the very  least, it should limit any domestic support in policing to requests by  the governors or narrowly tailored, time-limited federal authorizations  with mandatory training and Congressional reporting requirements.

Third, while this NDAA repeals the 1991 and 2002 Authorizations for  Use of Military Force (AUMF) related to U.S. military actions in Iraq,  the bill does not repeal the 2001 AUMF that was passed following the  terrorist attacks September 11, 2001. I have long supported a repeal of  the 2001 AUMF because it was intended to authorize military action  against Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, a mission that has long since ended.  The legal authorities provided in the 2001 AUMF are now being twisted  by the Trump administration to justify military strikes in the Western  Hemisphere on drug traffickers, who are international criminals, but  that the Administration has defined as ``terrorists.'' As I stated  previously, I believe this to be unlawful. These actions are dangerous  mission creep that I fear may lead to another catastrophic war of  regime change in Venezuela. If the Trump administration needs new legal  authorities to conduct strikes on terrorist groups in the Middle East,  then they should seek new authorization from Congress. If they feel  that military action in the Western Hemisphere is a national security  priority, then they should seek authorization from Congress as well and  let the representatives of the people decide as our Constitution  states.

Fourth, this bill continues to embrace the Trump administration's  culture war attacks on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility  programs that undermine recruitment, retention and unit cohesion.  Americans have watched President Trump turn the Defense Department into  an ideological battleground for imposing a right-wing ideology that  politicizes personnel policy and damages the readiness of all our  service members. While this conferenced version of the NDAA does not  include all the culture war related provisions from House version, it  does retain some. That includes a provision prohibiting transgender  Americans from participating in sports at the U.S. service academies,  which is an unnecessary attack on transgender Americans who are already  prevented from serving in the military by President Trump. Republicans  must stop injecting partisan politics into the NDAA because these  provisions promote only division and will continue to discourage  Americans from serving our Nation.

Fifth, this NDAA authorizes expanded military cooperation between the  United States and Israel that, considering the Israeli military  campaign in Gaza that has killed approximately 70,000 Palestinians, I  do not support. To be clear, I have always supported and continue to  support cooperative missile defense programs like Iron Dome because I  believe that no child--Israeli or Palestinian--deserves to have  missiles fall on their heads. However, this NDAA goes beyond support  for missile defense and includes provisions that strengthen the defense  production relationship and technology sharing, including unmanned  systems, between the United States and Israel. As a strong critic of  Prime Minister Netanyahu, I am appalled at the way he has prosecuted  the Israeli military campaign against Hamas terrorists that has led to  catastrophic death and destruct in Gaza. With a fragile ceasefire in  place, we should be focused on ensuring the continuation of a peace  process that ends the war for good, not expanding our military  cooperation with Prime Minister Netanyahu's government.

Finally, this NDAA contains a provision that allows the Department of  Defense and the  Services to move funds between several different accounts of  appropriated funds including the: Military Construction, Operations and  Maintenance, and Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation accounts,  without seeking approval from Congress. I understand that the intent is  to expedite the construction of the new headquarters for U.S. Space  Command, but the authority provided by this provision is broad,  permanent, and will likely be used beyond this one instance. The  Appropriations Committee meticulously considers how funds from these  accounts are to be used, and this authority offers too much room for  abuse by the Administration. Given OMB and the Department's repeated  abuse of appropriations law this year, the idea of providing the  Department with new authority to move funds absent Congressional  approval should be a non-starter for the Appropriations Committee. This  provision must be rescinded in the Defense Appropriations Act.

As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on  Defense, I completely agree that the United States must maintain a  strong military force that can deter wars and win them if necessary. I  appreciate the work that has been done by my Democratic colleagues on  the Armed Services Committee to improve this bill. They have worked  hard and I will have a similarly difficult task in negotiating the  conference agreement for the Fiscal Year 2026 Defense Appropriations  Act. My colleagues have given their best efforts and put forward a  product that attempts major reforms to a clearly broken defense  acquisition process, many of which I support. But America must be both  strong and principled, and the National Defense Authorization Act must  reflect that spirit. We can modernize our forces and protect our  homeland without eroding the Constitutional safeguards that make our  democracy worth defending. It is with deep regret that, in my opinion,  this bill does not do enough to meet that standard.

I oppose this legislation and I urge my colleagues to do the same.