One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693153/one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, the Republican's big ugly, shameful bill  is back on the House floor today.

Congressional Republicans and President Trump are pushing a massive  transfer of wealth from American families in need to the wealthy elite  of this Nation.

This bill will make devastating cuts to our communities in exchange  for massive tax breaks for President Trump, Elon Musk, and their  billionaire buddies.

I will be joining every Democrat in the House and Senate in voting  against this travesty.

My colleagues across the aisle who support this bill are voting to  cut 17 million Americans off from their healthcare--including 173,000  Minnesotans.

What will happen when those Americans delay preventive care and  treatments they can't afford because they have no health care?

The ugly consequences of this bill include tens of thousands of  premature deaths a year.

This bill will also force millions more Americans to pay higher  premiums, higher co-pays, and higher deductibles for the health care  they do receive. Republicans are voting to deliver bigger medical bills  to their constituents while President Trump continues to ignore his  promise to cut costs for everyday Americans.

Because these cuts weren't harsh enough for the Senate, they also  slashed hundreds of billions of dollars in critical support that keep  hospitals and nursing homes open, especially in rural and underserved  communities. Roughly one in four nursing homes and hundreds of  hospitals are at risk of closure without those funds. Do any of my  colleagues really think that their constituents want fewer hospitals  and a shortage of nursing homes in their communities?

Another ugly reality of this bill? It will make the largest cut to  nutrition assistance in American history, jeopardizing access to SNAP  benefits for 40 million Americans, including at least 32,000 of our  neighbors in Minnesota.

Millions of children, seniors, people with disabilities, and veterans  are at risk of going to bed hungry if this bill passes.

The deeper you dig into this bill, the more ugly, cruel, and  completely avoidable consequences you'll find.

It weakens our public school system and makes higher education more  expensive.

It gives sweetheart tax deals to dirty fossil fuel companies and  makes it cheaper for them to extract gas and coal from our public  lands.

It attacks our federal investments in clean energy, which will cost  over 790,000 jobs over the next decade and raise household energy  bills, all while adding to air pollution and worsening our climate  crisis.

And even after all that, it will add $4 trillion dollars to the  national debt with interest costs over the next decade, saddling future  generations with the cost of tax breaks for the wealthy.

Apparently, Republicans are content with continuing to ignore  Americans across the country who have flooded our offices with calls  and taken to the streets to tell them to keep their hands off our  healthcare, our education, and food assistance for our children, our  elders, and our neighbors in need.

They certainly haven't held the townhalls where they would hear that  no one wants them to give $1.3 trillion in tax breaks to the wealthy  elite--the top 1 percent--and pay for it by cutting roughly $1.3  trillion from our healthcare and food assistance.

This is not the direction the American people want our country to go.

Mr. Speaker, I will be voting no on this betrayal of our values and  our constituents, and I will continue to oppose all Republican efforts  to take away food, healthcare, and basic government services that  Minnesotans rely on.