Opposition to Iran War


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701137/opposition-to-iran-war


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to restate my strong opposition to  President Trump's unlawful and unconstitutional decision to order U.S.  military strikes on Iran on February 28, 2026. His actions have entered  our Nation into war without any imminent threat posed by Iran to the  United States and lacking necessary Congressional authorization.

With each day, it becomes more apparent that President Trump's  decision to go to war with Iran was a political choice, not a strategic  necessity. It is also clear that he has no plan to account for the  quickly rising costs for his war of choice.

The President is now reportedly seeking $200 billion in supplemental  funding from Congress for his war--an astounding amount that far  surpasses the costs of the war that have been reported during the past  four weeks. Additionally, Congress is still waiting for the  administration to fully explain where it is spending the additional  $150 billion in funding that the Pentagon received through the  Republicans reconciliation package that cut taxes for billionaires at  the expense of health care and food assistance programs. Congress also  awaits the president's budget request for this year--which is nearly  two months overdue.

Let me be clear--I will not write blank checks to the Department of  Defense.

Here at home, Americans are also paying for this war through higher  prices at the gas pump--prices that continue to rise as attacks expand  to critical energy infrastructure and tankers in the Strait of Hormuz.  The national average price is up by $1 more per gallon since the war  began. When gas prices go up, so does the price of everything else. If  the American people are being asked to pay for this war, then they  deserve clear answers from President Trump on why he chose to attack  Iran, what objectives justify continued military engagement, and what  guardrails are in place to prevent a broader or protracted regional  war.

Unfortunately, the Trump administration's rationale for the strikes  keeps shifting. First, it was about destroying Iran's nuclear program,  despite declaring last June that Iran's nuclear facilities had been  ``totally obliterated''--a claim Trump repeated in February. Then it  was about regime change. Then we heard from Secretary of State Marco  Rubio that the reason to launch the war was because Israel was going to  attack Iran first. When that rationale was retracted, Americans were  told it was about destroying Iran's ballistic missiles and military  industrial base. For America to be engaged in large scale conflict  overseas for nearly a month--with no clarity for Congress or the  American public about why--is shocking, unacceptable, and unprecedented  in our history.

In 2002, I was one of 133 members of the House of Representatives to  vote against the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq  Resolution. While I opposed that war from the beginning, President Bush  did what President Trump has failed to do--follow the law and the  Constitution and explain his rationale, albeit deeply flawed, for  taking our Nation to war. There was a monthslong national debate about  military action in Iraq, and Congress held hearings, debated the  resolution, and voted to approve the operation before President Bush  launched the first strikes on Iraq. With respect to Iran, President  Trump has denied the American public and the Congress this same process  that the Constitution requires.

No one deserves answers more than our U.S. servicemembers and their  families. At least 13 courageous service men and women who volunteered  to serve their country have given their lives in this conflict,  including my constituent, Master Sergeant Nicole Amor of White Bear  Lake, Minnesota. At least 200 others have been injured.

Our U.S. servicemembers are serving with a profound sense of duty to  our country. For this, all Americans should be grateful. For this, all  Americans should be united to support them. The family members and  loved ones of our brave troops are also enduring tremendous sacrifices  that can never be repaid. For the selfless Americans who sacrificed  their lives and bodies in service to our country, we must always  remember them and always fulfill the promises we have made to our  veterans and their families.

By any measure, America's war in Iraq was a strategic and human  tragedy that must not be repeated. As President Trump commits our  Nation to another serious conflict in the Middle East, this time with  Iran, the American people must not be fooled, not be driven by fear,  and not yield to another expensive and painful war of choice. While I  have clearly stated my disagreement with this war in Iran, I strongly  believe that we must stand united in supporting U.S. servicemembers and  their families. We pray that they complete their orders and return home  safely and soon.