Opposition to Permitting Bills


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698075/opposition-to-permitting-bills


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the slate of  permitting bills that the Republican majority has brought to the House  Floor this week. These bills roll back vital protections that ensure  our constituents have access to clean air and water, and can weigh in  on projects that will affect the health of their selves, their  families, and their community.

Make no mistake, the six bills before the House this week are not a  commonsense, bipartisan permitting package. They are the latest attempt  for President Trump and Congressional Republicans to roll back  protections for our environment so that their big oil and gas friends  can ``drill, baby, drill'' without consequence or punishment.

Republicans claim that H.R. 3893, the PERMIT Act, just cuts  unnecessary bureaucratic red tape. That is false. In reality, the  PERMIT Act is a partisan package of over a dozen bills that roll back  the Clean Water Act, further weakening protections on our rivers,  lakes, streams, and wetlands. This bill protects polluters from  responsibility for treating toxic pollution in their waste stream like  lead, mercury, selenium, PFAS, and arsenic. If enacted, the PERMIT Act  will lead to an increase in the unregulated discharge of these harmful  chemicals into local bodies of water.

In addition to the PERMIT Act, House Republicans have brought five  additional bills forward that will raise prices for consumers and  prioritize polluters over the American people. Let me tell you just how  bad these bills are:

H.R. 3668 would strip states of their ability to enforce their own  clean water laws concerning natural gas pipelines.

H.R. 3628 would force states to show arbitrary preference for fossil  fuels over clean, cheap energy.

H.R. 3638 would require the Department of Energy (DOE) to issue a  supply chain report, asking DOE to do more with less after Elon Musk  and DOGE forced out 3,500 DOE employees and put the agency's capacity  to write such a report in doubt. If Republicans are concerned about  energy supply chains, they should start by repealing the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act, which attacked tax credits and programs designed to  strengthen our supply chains.

H.R. 3616 would grant the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)  unprecedented power to veto or demand changes to any federal agency  action, including environmental rules.

H.R. 3632 would force old, expensive power plants to stay online for  up to five years after their scheduled retirement date, sending  already-high electricity bills through the roof.

Mr. Speaker, these bills do not exist in a vacuum. We are considering  these bills in the wake of Trump Administration actions to cancel and  stall clean energy projects. In October, President Trump canceled over  $7.5 billion in grants for 223 clean energy projects. President Trump  canceled over $714 million in funding for Minnesota. These grants would  have funded battery storage for a more stable grid, modernized  transmission lines, and funded a battery recycling education program at  Macalester College.

My Republican colleagues want to talk about permitting reform? Let's  talk about how President Trump is weaponizing the existing permitting  process to freeze the approval of permits for onshore wind and solar  projects, leaving thousands of megawatts of clean power in limbo at a  time when demand for electricity is sky rocking. If Republicans succeed  in passing these bills and gutting protections for our communities and  environment, it will mean that oil and gas companies have an easier  pathway to polluting the land, air, and water we all rely on.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose all six of these bills. I  once again urge the Republican House Majority to stop bringing these  harmful bills that fast-track fossil fuel projects, restrict  communities' ability to challenge harmful development, and work to  undermine clean energy development. This is not the way to improve  Americans' lives.