Opposition to H.R. H.R. and H.R. 2096


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, last week the Republican Majority in the  House of Representatives decided that they know better than the  residents of the District of Columbia what their local government  needs.

All Members of Congress are sent here by our constituents to  represent their interests, and to vote on matters of federal  importance. We aren't sent here to rule on specific local ordinances or  funding decisions made by the cities and counties in any of our  districts. Yet Republicans have brought three bills to the floor--H.R.  884, H.R. 2056, and H.R. 2096--to do exactly that. They want to tell  the District of Columbia's 700,000 residents that the laws and policies  they have voted for, and that were crafted by their local elected  officials, are null and void.

Mr. Speaker, none of us ran for or were elected to serve as D.C.  Council members. I've been a city council member. It's a very different  job, with a direct line of responsibility to the residents who elect  you to deal with everything from potholes to public safety. That local  representation and local responsiveness is a key part of our democracy,  and Republicans are proposing to strip that local self-governance away  from the residents of the District of Columbia.

If Republicans want to take steps to address an issue with national  importance, they can bring forward a bill that enforces it nationally.  I will not vote for these attempts to decide those issues for a single  district at the local level, whether in the District of Columbia or in  the districts of any Member here.

One of the bills before us last week, H.R. 884, would repeal D.C.'s  local law that allows  noncitizens to vote in local elections. I have serious concerns with  allowing noncitizens who do not hold a green card to vote in local  elections, but this is the wrong way to go about addressing that. I  voted present because I can't support repealing a local D.C. law, but I  do support having a conversation about how we define voter eligibility  nationwide.

I voted No on H.R. 2096, the Protecting Our Nation's Capital  Emergency Act, because it would repeal part of a local D.C. law to give  the police department increased authority to address incidents of  serious misconduct and discipline officers. I voted No on H.R. 2056  because we shouldn't be nullifying a local law to tell an individual  police department where they must divert their resources and how they  can best serve their community, including residents who are immigrants.

Mr. Speaker, I respect the will of D.C. residents to shape their  local government through their local elections, and that is why I do  not support H.R. 2096, H.R. 2056 or H.R. 884.