Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me the  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this legislation, which risks  polluting the Boundary Waters Canoe Area, as has been stated, our  Nation's most visited wilderness.

If this resolution passes and the mineral withdrawal is overturned,  toxic sulfide-ore copper mining will contaminate the water and the  habitat in this priceless wilderness.

The BWCA is a huge reserve of the most pristine water in the United  States, so clean you can directly drink from its lakes or streams. This  water is under threat once again.

In 2017, the Obama administration applied for a mineral withdrawal of  the Rainy River Watershed--the watershed is up here--which is the  headwaters that flows into the Boundary Waters Wilderness and Voyageurs  National Park. It started a 2-year environmental study, which included  extensive public input and scientific review.

While the Rainy River Watershed was being studied, Paradise Valley in  Montana and Methow Valley in Washington State were going through the  same exact process. All three of those watersheds were threatened by  sulfide-ore mining.

In Montana and Washington, those studies were able to be completed,  and their mineral withdrawals happened in 2018, protecting their  waters, but the Rainy River Watershed was left unfinished.

When President Trump took office, his administration initially  promised to complete the study. Instead, President Trump honored his  promise from a campaign rally and did not protect the watershed. His  administration canceled the study for Minnesota's watershed without  releasing any of the scientific findings.

This is what we received in the committee instead, and it is an  entirely redacted study--no information, nothing scientific in it,  nothing, all blank. Now, I serve on the Defense Committee. If we needed  to go in a SCIF, I would have been happy to go in the SCIF and get this  if it was so classified  it had to be redacted. The protection of the headwaters of the BWCA was  abandoned.

The Biden administration decided to finish the study, and they  followed the scientific recommendations and the public input. In 2022,  a comprehensive environmental assessment was finally completed. The  Forest Service recommended a mineral withdrawal to protect the Boundary  Waters of Minnesota, just as it had for the waters in Montana and  Washington.

Currently, we have 17 years left of a 20-year mineral withdrawal that  is protecting and preserving this water, but today Republicans want to  overturn those protections using, in my opinion, a legislative stunt.

In January 2023, almost 3 years ago, the mineral withdrawal was  completed. It was noticed under the Federal Land Policy and Management  Act. The law was followed. The Department of the Interior notified the  Congress of the withdrawal on January 26, 2023, and as my colleague,  the ranking member from the committee, just pointed out, we all  received those letters. I received one. Mr. Stauber received one. The  chair of the committee received one. Everybody got a letter.

Then Congress had 90 days to adopt a resolution of disapproval.  Republicans have tried to disapprove of the withdrawal, but they  weren't able to bring it to the floor. Congress didn't ask, and the  window of disapproval closed.

Now they are trying to use the Congressional Review Act to get a do- over. The CRA wasn't created to overturn a public land order,  especially one that is nearly 3 years old. CRA resolutions are for  rules, which public land orders are not, and they are to be used within  60 days of the congressional notice, not 3 years later.

Let me point out another, in my opinion, falsehood about this  legislation. I am the ranking member of the Defense Appropriations  Subcommittee. There is no immediate national security interest that  would be advanced by mining in this watershed.

How do we know this? We know this because Antofagasta, as has been  pointed out, is a Chilean mining company who owns Twin Metals. It is  lobbying to undo the current mineral withdrawal and restore their  leases to extract the copper. Here is what Antofagasta does with the  extracted copper, and we can't say this enough: They send it to China  where it is smelted and then it is sold on the open market or it is  used for its own defense weapons.

This resolution is not about national security. This is about water,  the world's most critical natural resource, and it must be protected  not only for today but for future generations. We have a responsibility  to future generations to have water available.

Also, in my opinion, some places are just too precious to mine. I  urge my colleagues to oppose the resolution.

Mr. Speaker, before I do that, I would like to enter the following  documents into the Congressional Record: The January 2023 notification  to Congress, the letter we all received; the redacted environmental  assessment; and the complete environmental assessment. The links are as  follows:

The combined letter notification to Congress can be found at:  mccollum. house.gov/sites/evo-subsites/mccollum. house.gov/files/evo- media-document/blm-correspondence_rep-westerman_ rainy-river- withdrawal-combined.pdf.

The redacted environmental assessment can be found at: Mccollum.  house.gov/sites/evo-subsites/mccollum. house.gov/files/evo-media- document/sept-2018_fs-ea_fully-redacted.pdf.

The complete environmental assessment can be found at:  mccollum.house. gov/sites/evo-subsites/mccollum.house. gov/files/evo- media-document/02-rainy-river-withdrawal-ea.pdf.

Mr. Speaker, I also include two letters. The first letter is a letter  dated January 16, 2026, from a group of hunters and anglers opposing  this legislation; and the second letter is a letter dated January 20,  2026, from a group of environmental organizations opposing this  legislation.                                                  January 16, 2026.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson, Leader Jeffries, and Members of the       House of Representatives: On behalf of the 80 undersigned       organizations and their millions of members, we respectfully       urge you to vote NO on House Joint Resolution 140, which       would revoke critical protections for the watershed of the       Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness--one of the nation's       most visited and expansive wilderness areas.

The Boundary Waters and downstream Voyageurs National Park       are currently protected by Public Land Order 7917, the 20-      year mineral withdrawal banning copper mining on federal       public lands in the headwaters of these beloved wild lands.       This mineral withdrawal was based on the U.S. Forest       Service's comprehensive Environmental Assessment, which       concluded that sulfide-ore copper mining near the Boundary       Waters would cause irreversible harm to the ecosystem and       downstream Voyageurs National Park. The analysis completed by       the Forest Service in 2022 included 675,000 public comments,       over 95% of which favored protecting the Boundary Waters and       Voyageurs from sulfide-ore copper mining.

In early January, this Public Land Order (7917) was       challenged under the Congressional Review Act (CRA), despite       Public Land Orders having never been deemed a rule subject to       the law. Instead, statutory requirements for Public Land       Orders have always been dictated by the Federal Land       Management and Policy Act of 1976. Using the CRA to attack       these protections also creates a reckless precedent that       would allow Congress to retroactively target virtually any       public land action as a `rule.'

Beyond setting a dangerous precedent, removing Boundary       Waters protections by passing this CRA would blatantly ignore       the voices of the American people and prioritize the profits       of a foreign mining company--Chilean conglomerate       Antofagasta--over the interest of this nation's citizenry and       beloved public lands. Once compromised, the Boundary Waters       cannot be restored. This region is much more than a beautiful       place. It embodies the best of our public lands: clean water,       expansive habitat, world-class recreation, and a strong,       sustainable local economy. Generations of Midwesterners and       Americans from across the country have formed deep       connections to nature through hunting, fishing, camping,       canoeing, and hiking in the Boundary Waters.

Allowing copper mining to proceed by overturning the       mineral withdrawal puts at risk not only the environment but       also the regional economy. The outdoor recreation economy in       northeastern Minnesota supports over 17,000 jobs and       contributes more than $1 billion in annual sales. Studies       consistently show that protecting the Boundary Waters       generates stronger and more sustainable economic benefits       than short term and toxic sulfide-ore copper mining.

We urge you to vote no on H.J.R. 140. Do not sell out our       wilderness and public lands against the will of Americans who       want these special places preserved.            Sincerely,

Alaska Wilderness League; Allegheny-Blue Ridge Alliance       (ABRA); American Bird Conservancy; American Hunters &       Anglers; Big Mountain Dreams; BlueGreen Generation; Bolder       Options; Californians for Western Wilderness; Cascade Forest       Conservancy; Center for Biological Diversity; Change the       Chamber; Clean Water Action Minnesota; Colorado Mountain       Club; Colorado Wild Public Lands; Conservation Colorado;       Conservation Lands Foundation; Conservation Minnesota;       Conservation Northwest; Conservatives for Responsible       Stewardship; Crow River Trail Guards.

CURE; Earthjustice Action; Earthworks; EcoFtight; Elders       Climate Action; Endangered Species Coalition; Environment       America; Environment Minnesota; Environmental Action;       Environmental Law & Policy Center; Environmental Law & Policy       Center; Friends of the Boundary Waters Wilderness; Giniw       Collective; Great Old Broads for Wilderness; Healthy Ocean       Coalition; Inland Ocean Coalition; Izaak Walton League of       America; John Muir Project; League of Conservation Voters;       Living Rivers Colorado Riverkeeper; Lutefisk Technologies,       Inc.

MN Center for Environmental Advocacy; mtn bio; National       Parks Conservation Association; Natural Resources Defense       Council; Nebraska Division IWLA; New Mexico Wild; New York       State Division IWLA; Next 100 Coalition; Nimiipuu Protecting       the Environment; Ocean Defense Initiative; Ohio Division       IWLA; One Mississippi; Outdoor Alliance; Presbyterians for       Earth Care; Quiet Use Coalition; Rivers Without Borders;       Rocky Mountain Wild; San Juan Citizens Alliance; Sanitas       Sales Group; Save Lake Superior Association; Save Our Sky       Blue Waters.

Save the Boundary Waters; Sheep Mountain Alliance; Sierra       Club; Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance; Standing Trees;       Student Public Interest Research Groups; The Conservation       Alliance; The Wilderness Society; Vet Voice Foundation;       Voyageurs Conservancy; Washington Wild; WaterLegacy; West       Virginia Division IWLA; Western Slope Conservation Center;       Western Watersheds Project; Wild Montana; Wilderness Watch;       Wilderness Workshop; Wisconsin Division IWLA.                                          ____                                                  January 20, 2026.

Dear Members of Congress: On behalf of the undersigned       hunting and fishing conservation organizations representing       hundreds of thousands of members and supporters, we write to       share our concern regarding H.J. Res. 140, a Congressional       Review Act (CRA) resolution which would revoke critical       protections for the watershed of the Boundary Waters Canoe       Area Wilderness, a world-class fishing and hunting       destination averaging over 150,000 visitors annually, and       overturn existing precedent for the management of our       nation's public lands.

The Boundary Waters and downstream Voyageurs National Park       are currently protected by Public Land Order 7917, the 20-      year mineral withdrawal placed in 2023, banning sulfide-ore       copper mining on over 225,000 acres of federal public lands       in the Rainy River Watershed of Northeast Minnesota. This       mineral withdrawal was based on the U.S. Forest Service's       comprehensive Environmental Assessment, which concluded that       sulfide-ore copper mining near the Boundary Waters would       cause irreversible harm to this sensitive ecosystem. The       Forest Service's 2022 analysis included 675,000 public       comments, over 95% of which favored protecting the withdrawal       area from non-ferrous mining.

At nearly 1.1 million acres, the Boundary Waters spreads       across the northeastern tip of Minnesota, containing over       1,100 lakes, 2,000 designated campsites, hundreds of miles of       rivers and streams, and the largest contiguous areas of uncut       forest remaining in the eastern United States. The three-      million-acre Superior National Forest, which includes the       Boundary Waters, contains 20 percent of all the fresh water       in the entire National Forest System.

The Boundary Waters offers unparalleled opportunities for       fishing, hunting, camping, and paddling. It's a haven for       hunters and anglers who come to the region to pursue walleye.       smallmouth bass, northern pike, whitetail deer, grouse, black       bear, and one of the largest selfsustaining populations of       native lake trout in America. The potential loss of these       unique recreational opportunities is a stark reminder of the       stakes involved in protecting this irreplaceable natural       resource.

H.J. Res. 140 would overturn the 20-year mineral       withdrawal, which complied fully with the Federal Land Policy       and Management Act (FLPMA), including extensive public review       and comment. Mineral withdrawals have never been considered       ``rules'' eligible to be overturned by the CRA, which is why       Public Land Orders such as this have never been submitted to       Congress.

This CRA resolution is an entirely unprecedented maneuver       that ignores the foundation of our public lands management       system and threatens not only the future of the Boundary       Waters, but how all federal public lands are managed going       forward. Attempting to revoke this mineral withdrawal through       this unprecedented manner completely sidelines the       environmental analysis and public process required under       FLPMA to amend or rescind mineral withdrawals.

Further, the CRA is a blunt legislative tool that has       historically been used only in rare instances. In the first       twenty years after enactment, the CRA was used to overturn a       federal rulemaking only once. Again, public land orders have       historically not been submitted to Congress under the CRA--      setting this precedent could open the door for overturning       any public land order since 1996.

Further, this would open the door for Twin Metals MN, a       subsidiary of the Chilean mining company Antofagasta, to       permit the Twin Metals MN copper-nickel mine less than a mile       upstream from the Boundary Waters. More importantly,       Antofagasta plans to ship its metal concentrates from the       Twin Metals project to China for processing and sale, and       already has contracts in place with Chinese smelters. This       mine will not directly supply critical minerals domestically,       as the minerals will be funneled to a strategic adversary of       the United States.

Notably, the Boundary Waters withdrawal area includes only       four out of eighteen known mineral deposits in the Duluth       Complex, the mineral rich formation found in northern       Minnesota. Neither does the withdrawal affect other mineral       deposits in the region, such as the Tamarack Intrusion, where       the electric vehicle manufacturer Tesla committed to       purchasing 75,000 metric tonnes of nickel from Talon Metals's       Tamarack Nickel Project. Furthermore, recent research from       the Colorado School of Mines, By-product recovery from US       metal mines could reduce import reliance far critical       minerals, concluded that 90% recovery of these minerals/      metals as by-products at active U.S. mines now could meet       nearly all our critical mineral needs as a nation. In other       words. we don't need to put the Boundary Waters at risk to       meet domestic critical mineral demands.

Overturning the Boundary Waters watershed mineral       withdrawal jeopardizes not only the environment but also the       regional economy. The outdoor recreation economy in       northeastern Minnesota supports over 17,000 jobs and       contributes more than $1 billion in annual sales. Studies       consistently show that protecting the Boundary Waters yields       stronger, more sustainable economic benefits than short-term,       toxic sulfide-ore copper mining.

As hunters, anglers, and outdoor enthusiasts who rely on       places like the Boundary Waters, we find this legislation       troubling. Removing existing safeguards by passing H.J. Res.       140 would ignore the voices of the overwhelming majority of       the American sporting community, prioritize the profits of a       foreign mining company, and set a dangerous precedent for       similar protections across the country.

We respectfully request that you uphold protections for the       Boundary Waters that ensure generations of incredible       hunting, fishing, and paddling opportunities. Our sporting       heritage and the outdoor economy of Northeast Minnesota rely       on an intact and water-rich backcountry habitat that millions       of Americans have visited. Please oppose H.J. Res 140 and any       similar actions taken in the Senate.

Sincerely,

American Fisheries Society; American Fly Fishing Trade       Association; Angler Action Foundation; Backcountry Hunters &       Anglers; Bass Anglers Sportsman Society (B.A.S.S.); Fly       Fishers International; Izaak Walton League of America;       Minnesota Trout Unlimited; Minnesota Wildlife Federation;       National Deer Association; National Wildlife Federation;       North American Falconers Association; North American Grouse       Partnership; Pheasants Forever; Quail Forever; Sportsmen for       the Boundary Waters; Theodore Roosevelt Conservation       Partnership; Trout Unlimited; Whitetails Unlimited; Wildlife       Management Institute.