Supporting of H. Con. Res. 61 and H. Con. Res. 64


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698418/supporting-of-h-con-res-61-and-h-con-res-64


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 61 and  H. Con. Res. 64, War Powers resolutions that direct President Trump to  remove the U.S. military from hostilities in the Caribbean and against  Venezuela unless explicitly authorized by Congress.

Since September 2, 2025, the Trump administration has conducted 25  military strikes on vessels in the Western Hemisphere, which they state  to be carrying narcotics. At least 95 people have been killed in these  strikes. Not one of these strikes has been authorized by Congress and I  have publicly called for them to cease because I believe them to be  unlawful extrajudicial killings.

The footage of the strike on September 2, 2025, which I have viewed  in a classified setting, is deeply alarming and calls into question the  Trump administration's respect for the laws of armed conflict. I have  called on Secretary Hegseth and Secretary Rubio to immediately release  the strike video in its entirety, so that the American public  understands what President Trump has ordered in the Caribbean without  any authorization from Congress. Congress has a responsibility to fully  investigate not only the September 2, 2025, strike but the Trump  administration's entire operation in the Caribbean and should take  testimony from Secretary Hegseth, U.S. Special Operations  Commander Admiral Frank Bradley, and retired U.S. Southern Commander  Admiral Alvin Holsey.

Beyond these strikes, the Trump administration has spent months  conducting a large-scale military buildup in the Caribbean but has  completely failed to explain the rationale to Congress. A military  posture that includes a carrier strike group is wildly disproportionate  to the goal of prosecuting counter-narcotics missions. The financial  costs of Operation Southern Spear are significant and will likely run  into billions of dollars. Keeping a carrier strike group on station  longer than planned will result in additional maintenance costs, as  well as unforeseen accidents, as we just saw with the USS Harry  Truman's high operational tempo while deployed in the Middle East. It  is unfortunate that the Department of Defense has failed to provide the  Appropriations Committee with a full account of operational costs in  SOUTHCOM and a projection of what future costs may be incurred.  Military units supporting Operation Southern Spear are incurring a  different type of cost, lost time training for missions that they would  have undertaken had they not been diverted to the President's  unauthorized activities in SOUTHCOM.

President Trump has also made several public comments about the  potential for U.S. military forces to be used to remove Nicolas Maduro  from power in Venezuela. President Trump has even directed the seizure  of oil tankers in the region to apply pressure in Venezuela. As a  Member of Congress who voted against authorizing the disastrous Iraq  War, I believe that a war to enact regime change in Venezuela would be  a catastrophic decision. That is why these two war powers resolutions  are so critically important,

President Trump and his administration are out of control. The  Constitution grants Congress the power to declare war and authorize  military action. Because Congress has not done so in this case, the  military activities directed by President Trump in SOUTHCOM are  unlawful. Congress must prevent President Trump from dragging the  United States into another disastrous regime change war that the  American people do not support.

It is time for every Member of Congress to go on record and stand  with the Constitution instead of President Trump's executive overreach.  I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of these two war power  resolutions.