Supporting H.R. 7006


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699388/supporting-hr-7006


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the FY2026 Financial  Services and General Government and National Security, Department of  State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act.

Due to the perseverance of my colleagues, Ranking Members DeLauro,  Hoyer, and Frankel, the legislation before us protects funding for  Democratic priorities, reasserts Congress's power of the purse, and  rejects Republicans' poison pill riders.

The fiscal year 2026 National Security, Department of State, and  Related Programs Appropriations bill upholds U.S. leadership abroad and  invests into vital programs that support humanitarian aid, development,  and democracy building. This bill, while imperfect, rebukes President  Trump's attacks on foreign aid by allocating $5.5 billion for  humanitarian assistance, $9.4 billion to support the State Department's  Diplomatic Programs, and $3.5 billion for global health programs that  support maternal and child health and fighting infectious diseases. All  of these areas were cut significantly in the President's budget and the  House Republican appropriations bill. In addition to the improvements  made to humanitarian assistance programs, this bill also makes strides  in international conservation  and environmental programs. The conferenced agreement removes  Republican policy riders that would have prohibited any funding to the  Green Climate Fund, the Clean Technology Fund, and implementation of  the Paris Climate Agreement, and saved the Global Environment Facility  from elimination.

The fiscal year 2026 Financial Services and General Government bill  provides critical assistance to small businesses in the Twin Cities by  rejecting cuts to Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI)  Fund. The CDFI Fund promotes economic development in distressed urban,  rural, and tribal communities. CDFIs leverage capital from the CDFI  Fund to catalyze investment in the Twin Cities that grows our small  businesses, develops housing units, increases access to financial  services, and creates jobs. Over the past year, President Trump has  proposed eliminating the CDFI Fund, has fired CDFI Fund staff, and  withheld funding that Congress appropriated intended for our small  businesses. As Trump administration and ICE are terrorizing our  community and small businesses, it is more important than ever that the  CDFI Fund remain fully funded to assist small business owners as our  community rebuilds after this crisis.

While these bills were not ideal, I urge my colleagues to support  this bipartisan agreement.