H. Con. Res. 14


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689540/h-con-res-14


Mr. WARNOCK. Mr. President, I rise tonight in strong opposition to  this awful, and, frankly, immoral budget. Recently, I was appointed to  the Finance Committee of the U.S. Senate, and the reason why I wanted  to serve on that committee is because I wanted to get a chance to shape  the Nation's budget.

As I thought about all of the things that I have fought for long  before I came to the Senate, access to healthcare, access to learning  and early education for all of our children, ensuring that people could  retire with dignity--as I thought about the things that I cared about,  I wanted to serve in a place where I might have an impact on our  Nation's budget.

And that is because, for me, a budget is not just a fiscal document,  it is a moral document. It is not just numbers and figures. It is not  just dollars and cents.

Show me your budget, and I will show you who you think counts and who  doesn't. Show me your budget, and I will show you what you think  matters and what doesn't. Show me your budget, and I will show you your  priorities.

Jesus said:

Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.

And I have to say that if this budget that is being proposed were an  EKG, it would suggest that the U.S. Congress has a heart problem and is  in need of moral surgery. Why else would you propose, among other  things, to cut up to $880 billion from Medicaid?

I could talk about many aspects of this budget tonight, but I will  just stick with Medicaid, programs that provide healthcare to the most  vulnerable citizens, the children, to the severely disabled, to seniors  in nursing homes. In fact, 71 percent of all Medicaid enrollees in  Georgia are children--71 percent. And I think it is important to  underscore that because sometimes when we use these terms ``Medicaid,''  there may be folks at home wondering, well, who are we talking about?  Who are these people? Well, 71 percent of them are your children.

And so this budget is dangerous. It is cynical. It is wrong-headed. I  believe in addressing waste and fraud and abuse, and I would sign up  quickly to deal with that in our government.

But there isn't enough waste, fraud, and abuse to cut $880 billion  out of Medicaid. And that is not just me saying that. The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office said that the proposed GOP budget would  require cuts to the Medicaid people rely on. So don't be fooled. Don't  be tricked by the funny math, by the games to cover up what is really  happening here. And if I were them, I would be ashamed of it and trying  to hide it too.

But they can't hide from the fact that they are about to take  healthcare away from children. It is really that simple. And so why?  Why are we cutting access to healthcare? A human  right to 1.3 million children in Georgia, quarter of a million Georgian  seniors, over 37 million kids nationwide, 9.3 million seniors  nationwide--why should they go to bed tonight wondering if the Congress  is getting ready to pull the rug out from under them?

Well, the answer is, sadly, very simple: to pay for tax cuts to the  richest of the rich, all while adding $5 trillion to the Nation's debt.  Think about that. A plan that would cut healthcare to our most  vulnerable citizens, including children living in the dawn of life and  elders living in the twilight of life, while adding $5 trillion to the  Nation's debt, $37 trillion potentially over 30 years, and so we are  taking healthcare for children and then burdening them with the  consequences of this terrible decision.

And so I rise tonight just to say that America is better than this.  This is not who we are at our core. And the data demonstrates that the  people--the people at home, ordinary folks don't want this. This is  symptomatic of the ways in which the people's voices have been squeezed  out of their democracy and the folks who are sent here to represent  them are representing other interests.

And that is why every Sunday I return to my pulpit at Ebenezer  Baptist Church. I am blessed to stand there. I am the preacher, but it  is good to be in that atmosphere. It reminds me what ordinary people  look like and their concerns and their needs. And sometimes, when I  stand in that pulpit, I am reminded that Martin Luther King, Jr., who  was copastor, said that of all the injustices, inequality in healthcare  is the most shocking and the most inhumane.

It is the honor of my life to be able to stand there and preach every  Sunday. The Gospel tells us about a man who healed the sick, even those  with preexisting conditions, and never billed them for his services.  And that is why I am a Matthew 25 Christian. My work is informed by the  words of that Gospel.

For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and       you gave me something to drink, I was a stranger and you       welcomed me, I was naked and you gave me clothing, I was sick       and you took care of me, I was in prison and you visited me.

And some asked the Master, when were You hungry? Lord, when were You  thirsty? When were You a stranger? When were You sick?

And the answer came:

Truly, I tell you, just as you did it to one of the least       of these who are members of my family, you did it also unto       me.

This is not for me simply a policy argument; it is a moral  discussion. It is about who we are fundamentally. What is the character  of our Nation? To center the 41 percent of Georgia children who rely on  Medicaid, I think that is what keeping the faith looks like; to center  the exhausted mom who is working multiple, unpredictable jobs but still  needs Medicaid to get the healthcare she needs--many of the folks who  need Medicaid go to work every day.

In Georgia, 600,000 folks who are in the Medicaid gap, all of this  talk about work requirements, the overwhelming majority of those folks  go to work every day or they are in school or they are taking care of a  disabled person.

Keeping the faith means centering the Georgia seniors who rely on  Medicaid to cover the cost of living in a nursing home. That is why in  2017, years before I knew I would even run for political office, let  alone serve in the Senate, I came to this building, but I came as a  faith leader. I came with other faith leaders across various  religious traditions and people who claim no particular faith tradition  but people of moral courage. And we gathered in the Rotunda, and they  were discussing, back then another reconciliation bill. And, once  again, that bill would cut the social safety net programs like Medicaid  and food assistance.

And so we came here to bear witness to who we are at our best as a  nation. And as we gathered in the Rotunda, the Capitol Police gathered,  and we were singing, and we were praying. And they said: Sorry, you  can't sing, and you can't pray in the Rotunda.

I thought to myself somebody needed to pray.

And they said:

Respectfully, we will give you three warnings, and if you       don't move, we will have to arrest you.

What they didn't understand was that I had already been arrested. My  mind and my imagination had been arrested by the words of Dr. King who  taught us that the true measure of a person is not where he or she  stands in moments of comfort and convenience but in moments of  challenge and controversy. We are tied in a single garment of destiny,  caught up in an inescapable network of mutuality, and whatever affects  one affects all indirectly. My mind had already been arrested. My moral  imagination had been arrested. And so that felt like a small price to  pay.

And so I call on the people who are at home to call your Senator,  call your Congress person, tell them that this is not right, it is not  fair, it is not true to our highest values.

There are some 2,000 verses in the Scripture that tell us how to  treat people who are in need, how to treat the poor; and maybe that is  why faith leaders all across the State of Georgia have been reaching  out to me in advance of this debate.

Atlanta Bishop Jack Lumanog from the Anglican Diocese of St. Ignatius  Loyola reached out to me earlier this month, and here are some excerpts  from the letter he sent to me. He said:

I am grateful to be one of your constituents in Georgia and       to write to a fellow pastor whose voice carries both moral       authority and legislative power in this defining moment for       our nation. However, I write to you today with a heavy heart,       deeply troubled by the state of our nation.

As a faith leader, I am increasingly concerned for the most       vulnerable among us--those who rely on Medicaid, Medicare,       and Social Security. These vital programs appear to be next       in line for cuts by DOGE that could threaten the well-being       of millions. Scripture--

He says--       reminds us that ``whatever you did for one of the least of       these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me.''

It is our moral duty to advocate for the dignity and       security of those who depend on these essential safety nets.       We cannot allow them to be dismissed amid political and       economic maneuvering by unelected bureaucrats like Elon Musk,       who have placated the legislature and judiciary while       wielding outsized influence over public policy, all while       bypassing democratic accountability.

Please be assured of my prayers for you and your leadership       during this critical moment in our nation's history. May you       find strength in your faith and courage in your convictions       as you continue to fight for justice and righteousness.

Thank you, Bishop Lumanog. You are not alone in your witness. Earlier  in the year, the three largest Catholic organizations in the country-- the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, the Catholic Health  Association, and Catholic Charities USA--urged lawmakers to protect and  strengthen Medicaid as a matter of faith.

They wrote:

The Catholic Church teaches that human life is sacred, and       all people have inherent dignity and worth. As Catholic       bishops and organizations that provide health care and social       services on behalf of the church, we firmly believe that all       people have the right to those necessities needed to live,       found a family and flourish. As you address reconciliation       priorities, we urge you to prioritize those most in need and       working families and protect the Medicaid program.

We are hearing from a range of faith leaders because they understand  that the acid test of someone's faith is the depth of their commitment  to the most marginalized members of the human family.

Nearly 2 million people in Georgia are enrolled in Medicaid; that is  one in five Georgians. And 1.3 million children in Georgia are enrolled  in Medicaid; that is over 40 percent of every Georgia child, two in  every five children. A quarter of a million Georgia seniors rely on  Medicaid, including those living in nursing homes, that is around one  in seven Georgia seniors. And they are united in opposition to cuts to  Medicaid. I hear their stories all the time. I want to just share a  couple of them with you.

Bristeria was excited to learn that she would be expecting her first  child, but her initial excitement quickly gave way to fear and anxiety  as her pregnancy proved to be most difficult.

During the pregnancy, doctors needed to perform an emergency  operation, followed by an unexpected C-section delivery. And at the  time of her pregnancy, Bristeria was working a part-time job that did  not offer health benefits.

Through family, friends, and coworkers, she discovered that she was  eligible for Medicaid, which ultimately provided critical assistance in  covering  the cost of the care she needed through delivery.

She was both relieved and grateful that a difficult pregnancy ended  in the birth of a healthy baby boy. Now she is the proud mother of two.  She works full time as a deputy county clerk. She is now enrolled in an  employer-provided health plan. But she remains forever grateful that  Medicaid was there for her when she needed it.

It provided a temporary safety net amid a challenging pregnancy, and  now her life is much better because of it.

Naomi enrolled in Medicaid after she lost her job when pregnant with  her son Noah. Noah was born prematurely at just 26 weeks and lives with  chronic and medically complex conditions that require round-the-clock  care. Noah's Medicaid coverage is provided through a combination of  innovative programs, including Georgia's Right from the Start  initiative for comprehensive health services and the Katie Beckett  waiver program for children with complex medical needs.

All over our country, there are children like Noah. His mom says:

If we didn't have Medicaid, we would be in dire straits.

Elisabeth from Ellijay, GA, says:

Our lives depend on prescription medications [and]       accessibilities. . . . Please, help us. Losing Medicaid would       hurt disabled people or even potentially kill us without       access to our medication. . . . When it comes to politics or       access to healthcare, disabled people are often left out and       no one thinks of the consequences of taking away the things       that help us. We live in forced poverty already and Medicaid       is essential. Please think of us and be a voice for those who       can't speak out.

Finally, when Cindy was 17 years old--Cindy from Atlanta--she was a  star athlete and a great student preparing to go to college and enroll  in ROTC. Her parents, who are refugees from Vietnam, moved to the  United States to give her a better life, and she wanted to make them  proud.

But when she started feeling exhausted all the time and noticed  swelling in her lymph nodes, she knew something was wrong. And after  several visits to various doctors and the hospital, she was diagnosed  with stage II non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Obviously, that was devastating  news for her and for her family, but they were at least grateful that  Medicaid would cover all the treatment Cindy needed to survive.

And just after Thanksgiving, her senior year in high school, Cindy  started chemotherapy. Each session lasted 3\1/2\ hours, and she had to  do them every other week for 6 months. She went to classes as much as  she could, took the SAT, and continued her plans to go to college. She  went to her senior prom, even though it was just 2 days after her  chemotherapy.

But now Cindy is 30 years old. She is cancer free. She is fascinated  by all things aerospace, and she formed a group at her school to  advocate for a new major in the field. She says:

When I was 17, I was diagnosed with Stage 2 non-Hodgkin       lymphoma. Because of Medicaid, I was able to catch my cancer       early, and today, I'm cancer-free. I'm following my dreams of       becoming an aerospace engineer, and I'm living proof that       Medicaid saves lives.

That is really the heart of it: Medicaid saves lives.

And so I wanted to share these stories tonight because these are the  stories of ordinary people. These are the stories of the folks who will  not be able to stand on the Senate floor, but they need a voice. These  are their stories. But in a real sense, these are our stories because,  as Dr. King said: We are ``tied in a single garment of destiny.  Whatever affects one . . . affects all indirectly.''

We got to know this very well over the last few years, during the  COVID-19 pandemic. A deadly airborne disease meant that if my neighbor  was sick, I was potentially imperiled. That doesn't make my neighbor my  enemy. That simply means I had an investment in my neighbor's health.  My neighbor's healthcare was good for my health.

And so that is the spirit with which we ought to be addressing  something as sacred as crafting a nation's budget. I need other  people's children to be OK for my children to be OK. I need people with  disabilities to be OK for my children to be OK. I need seniors at  nursing homes to be OK for all of us to be OK. I need children with  cerebral palsy to be OK for my children to be OK.

We need to look into each other's eyes and into the eyes of other  people's children, and see our own.

So over the next few days, this body will be voting on a budget, and  I submit that the budget says a whole lot about the body. It is a moral  EKG, and the question is: Are we well or do we have a heart condition?

I submit that, for all of our challenges, we suffer not from a  poverty of resources but a poverty of moral imagination. We are bigger,  better, and stronger when our reach is wide and when we dare to build a  nation that embraces all of our children. God gives us strength, grace,  and moral courage to get it right.