Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700469/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. WARNOCK. Mr. President, I have listened very carefully to the  President of the United States, to the Secretary of State, to the  Secretary of Defense--or War, as he likes to call it. I have listened  to other members of the administration, over the last several days,  both in their public statements and in our private briefing.

And what is clear to me is that they don't seem to know why they have  dragged the United States into war.

Furthermore, they have no plan how to get out--no clear rationale, no  clear objectives, no plan for the day after decapitating the brutal  leadership of an awful regime.

Make no mistake, we have the most powerful military force on the  planet and in human history. There is no question that we could go all  around the globe and take out leaders we don't like.

The day after, that is the hard part. That is what we are facing  right now. We have no idea who will step into this power vacuum created  over the last few days, no plan for getting Americans who are in the  region to safety right now. They are being told in so many ways: You  are on your own.

No clear vision of what victory actually looks like, no exit plan.

We pray for the families of the six brave Americans who have already  paid the ultimate sacrifice, our servicemembers who are indeed the best  among us, who go no matter who the President is. They follow orders,  they are the embodiment of courage and patriotism, and that is why they  deserve better than this. And so do the American people.

After nearly 25 years of misadventures, Americans have grown weary of  endless wars in the Middle East. And we know from recent history--not  ancient history--that it is easy to get in, not so easy to get out.

``Mission accomplished.'' Remember that? And yet, years after that  declaration, American soldiers were sent on deployment after deployment  after deployment, carrying in their bodies the visible and invisible  wounds of war; moreover, the body bags kept coming home.

I promised the people of Georgia that I would walk with them even as  I work for them. I have stood at Dover Air Force Base to receive the  bodies of Georgia servicemembers. I have looked into the grief-stricken  eyes of their family members as they gazed at a flag-draped coffin,  dealing with unbearable grief.

There is no worse pain, and there is no more solemn duty for a  Commander in Chief than to send our servicemembers into battle.

Yet I sat and I watched and I listened to the President the other  day, and I was struck by the cavalier way in which he said: People die.  That happens in war. No sense that he feels deep in his soul the  awesome responsibility that he carries. He has entered into this  adventure without much thought about the human cost or the security of  the United States or the stability of the region.

The declaration of war is not a power that the President of the  United States has. The Constitution makes it clear the declaration of  war is the authority and the responsibility of Congress. Presidents of  both parties, yes, they have engaged in military operations, but the  declaration of war belongs to this body.

Well, to me, this looks like a war; it feels like a war. Those six  families are dealing with the consequences of war, and Donald Trump has  said there will be more. Moreover, Donald Trump has said this is war.  Well, I take him at his word. He has called it a war, and yet he  refuses to come before the Congress as the Constitution demands and  make his case for war.

And after yesterday's briefing, I think I know why. Aside from his  own ego and hubris, his authoritarian tendencies, Donald Trump has  refused to come before the Congress and make his case because he has  none. It is exceedingly difficult to explain your rationale when it is  not clear in your own head, when it changes every day.

Is it regime change? Well, they have no idea who will follow. And as  my colleague from Connecticut laid out, history suggests that we may  well end up with somebody worse. We have seen the perils of regime  change.

And then we heard another explanation. Is it to disarm Iran of its  nuclear capabilities? I thought the President said he had obliterated  that a few months ago. Now, he says the regime was an imminent nuclear  threat.

Which is it? The American people deserve to know, and the families of  those six servicemembers who have already died deserve to know.

Is it to destroy their ballistic missile capabilities? Well, what  changed in their capabilities that demanded this action right now as we  are 4 days into this conflict and already this war is spreading?

The American people deserve better than this: No rationale, no  explanation, no strategy, no exit plan.

We must stop this madness because the American people have made it  clear that they want us focused on the healthcare, their everyday  costs, their children, their families. Are they concerned about their  safety? Yes. But while Khamenei was clearly a brutal dictator--and  there are many of them around the world--whether we are actually safer  today than we were last week, given the increased instability that we  are witnessing in the region in real time, is an open question.

And still getting this body to have a real debate on something so  grave, so deeply consequential, is almost impossible, but we must  demand that it happen.

Donald Trump has attacked seven countries in the first year of his  Presidency, more than any President in the modern era. He is out of  control. We must put guardrails on this President. Otherwise, who can  and who will?

My colleagues, our servicemembers are living up to their oath. Let's  live up to ours. Let's put guardrails on this President, stop this  madness, and get focused on the American people.