Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688025/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. VALADAO. Madam Chair, I thank the gentleman from Arizona for  yielding. I also thank Leader Scalise for his time today.

We have a historic opportunity to advance the key priorities of this  administration with a one-bill solution, and I fully agree we need to  move forward in a way that reflects the needs of the American people.

This budget resolution unlocks the next step in the reconciliation  process to deliver on our priorities. That includes extending key  provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, like doubling the standard  deduction, expanding the child tax credit, and maintaining the death  tax exemption. These policies make a real difference for working  families, farmers, and small business owners, and allow them to keep  more of their hard-earned money.

We also need to fulfill our commitment of securing our border,  strengthening our economy, and rooting out fraud, waste, and abuse.

It is my understanding that after this resolution passes, House  leadership will be working with the Senate to come to an agreement on  reconciliation language so that the committees can begin drafting  specific policies to achieve the administration's agenda.

There has been a lot of political rhetoric about what this upcoming  budget resolution does and does not do, and I want to be clear about  where I stand.

As a Representative of one of the most agriculturally rich districts  in  the country, it is my constituents who are responsible for putting food  on everyone's table. My district also has one of the highest Medicaid  populations in the Nation.

I have heard from countless constituents who tell me the only way  they can afford healthcare is through programs like Medicaid, and I  will not support a final reconciliation bill that risks leaving them  behind.

Medicaid cuts are deeply unpopular with the American families who  sent us here to deliver on President Trump's agenda. I understand  Medicaid is not explicitly named in this bill, but achieving $880  billion in budget cuts within E&C's jurisdiction is not an easy task.

I also ask that leadership remain committed to working with my  colleagues and me to produce a final product that strengthens critical  programs like Medicaid and SNAP and ensures our constituents are not  left behind.