Foreign Emissions and Nonattainment Clarification for Economic Stability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701728/foreign-emissions-and-nonattainment-clarification-for-economic-stability-act


Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge support for the FENCES  Act, a commonsense bill that brings fairness and clarity to how we  evaluate air quality in the United States.

In California, our communities are already working hard to meet some  of the most stringent environmental standards in the country. Yet, too  often, they are penalized for factors completely outside of their  control, like pollution or wildfire smoke that comes from outside our  borders.

The FENCES Act clarifies that emissions coming from other countries,  whether caused by human activity or natural events, cannot be used to  determine whether a State is meeting Federal air quality standards. The  bill also strengthens existing law under the Clean Air Act by allowing  States to account for foreign emissions earlier in the process rather  than waiting until final stages of their State implementation plans.  For California, wherein nonattainment designations can have serious  economic consequences, reliability is important.

Right now, businesses across Central Valley and across our State face  significant permitting delays and regulatory uncertainty. I hear from  small businesses all the time who want to invest and hire in our  region, but they are stuck navigating a system that doesn't reflect  today's global realities.

In some cases, these challenges actually push investment overseas to  countries with much weaker environmental standards, which ultimately  undermines the very goal that we are trying to achieve here in the  United States. I think we can all agree that we want our communities to  be healthy while also providing opportunities for economic investment.

The FENCES Act helps to provide a level playing field by providing  regulatory clarity, streamlining the permitting process, and giving  States like California a fair shot at compliance, while still  maintaining our commitment to clean air.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, which  strikes the balance between reasonable environmental standards and  allowing industry to invest in America to help build our economy and  create jobs.