Recognizing the Atsma Family


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698674/recognizing-the-atsma-family


Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the Atsma Family, who  have been named the 2025 Dairy Family of the Year by the Tulare Chamber  of Commerce.

The Atsma family's story is a remarkable example of hard work,  perseverance, and dedication to agriculture. George Atsma's father  initially immigrated from the Netherlands to Canada in 1953 at just 20  years old. After meeting his wife and welcoming their first child, they  moved his young family to Southern California. There, he worked for  local dairymen and eventually entered the dairy business himself-- continuing the family tradition dating back to the 1600s.

In 1994, George Atsma began his own dairy legacy when he started  building his own herd in Tipton, California. A few years later, he  purchased property just east of Tulare, and by 2007 had completed  renovations and moved his herd to the new site. Today, he operates both  a successful dairy and a calf ranch with his wife, Tina, and their six  children: Joshua, Danielle, Tavis, Annika, Georgiana, and Roman.

In 2005, Mr. Atsma launched a custom calf raising business--another  example of the family's commitment to innovation in dairy production.  What began with 450 milking cows has  grown to a herd of 1,550, including 1,400 milking cows. That kind of  growth doesn't happen without a deep respect and knowledge of the land  and livestock.

This June, during the Annual Salute to Dairy and Dairy Princess  Coronation hosted by the Tulare Chamber of Commerce, the Atsma Family  was recognized for their leadership, stewardship, and contributions to  both the dairy industry and our local community.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating the  Atsma Family on this well-deserved honor. Their work represents the  very best of the Central Valley's agricultural heritage, and their  impact will be felt for generations to come.