Recognizing Sherry Bryant


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700607/recognizing-sherry-bryant


Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the extraordinary  career and contributions of Sherry Bryant, a committee reporter from  the Clerk's Office of Official Reporters.

As the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on  Legislative Branch, I have gained firsthand knowledge of the numerous  offices across the Capitol complex whose staff ensure the seamless,  high-quality operation of the House of Representatives as it performs  its legislative duties. These offices include the Office of the Clerk,  and specifically, its Office of Official Reporters, where Sherry has  faithfully served for the past decade.

Sherry began her career as a freelance deposition reporter in  Pennsylvania and has been a court reporter since 1981. From 1998 to  2012, she reported the annual Pennsylvania Senate Budget Hearing. She  later served with the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  New York from 2013 to 2016. Over the course of her career, she has  reported countless significant proceedings, including the 42nd  President of the United States' remarks at the National Governors  Association's annual conference in 2000.

In 2016, Sherry joined the Office of Official Reporters, where she  has since covered several historic and high-profile committee and  subcommittee hearings, field hearings across the country, transcribed  interviews, and depositions. Her dedicated work has helped preserve the  official record of this institution at some of its most consequential  moments.

In 2025, Sherry won the National Court Reporters Association Speed  Competition for the third time, solidifying her status as the fastest  court reporter in the Nation. She previously claimed this honor in 2012  and 2018. She is also a Registered Merit Reporter (RMR) and a Certified  Realtime Reporter (CRR), achieving measured speeds ranging from 180 to  260 words per minute with a minimum accuracy of 95 percent--an  extraordinary testament to her skill and discipline. Her colleagues  describe her as dedicated, hardworking, conscientious, and unfailingly  positive. The Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives described her  as ``the nicest person--nice and talented.''

It has been a true privilege for the House of Representatives to  benefit from the service of the fastest court reporter in the country  for all these years. As Sherry prepares to retire, I ask my colleagues  to join me in celebrating her remarkable career and thanking her for  her tireless service to this institution and to our Nation.