Save Our Sequoias Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700705/save-our-sequoias-act


Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Speaker, that was a really good tour. I think it was  about 4 years ago. As a dairy farmer, it is always interesting for us  to learn the different parts of growing plants and animals and the  impact they have.

Mr. Westerman's expertise on this piece of legislation specifically  really shown through on those days when we were driving around and  spending a lot of time with then-Speaker McCarthy and a bipartisan  group of Members. We learned a lot.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge support for the Save Our Sequoias  Act. For generations, the giant sequoias have stood as one of the most  recognizable symbols of California. These trees are remarkably  resilient to fire and were once considered virtually indestructible.

Today, they face a crisis of our own making. More than a century of  fire suppression and forest mismanagement has allowed dangerous levels  of fuel to build up around these groves, turning natural fires into  catastrophic, high-severity wildfires.

Since 2015, these fires have caused unprecedented destruction. In  just the last few years, nearly one-fifth of all giant sequoias have  been lost. Without urgent action, we risk losing countless more. That  is why I am proud to cosponsor the Save Our Sequoias Act.

This bill provides land managers with the emergency tools and  resources they need to protect the remaining groves by strengthening  coordination among Federal, State, Tribal, and local partners. It  establishes a comprehensive assessment to prioritize wildfire risk  reduction. It also streamlines reviews so critical forest management  can move forward quickly, while maintaining strong scientific  standards.

The Save Our Sequoias Act also encourages private partnerships to  support restoration and establishes a comprehensive reforestation  strategy to regenerate groves lost to recent wildfires.

Mr. Speaker, protecting the giant sequoias is about safeguarding a  natural legacy for future generations. I urge all my colleagues to  support this legislation, and I thank the chairman for his efforts on  this legislation over the last few years.