-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695292/9999


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentlewoman from  Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), the top Democrat on the Appropriations  Committee, for yielding and for her strong leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Motion to  Instruct. From the very beginning of this Congress, Democrats have made  clear that  we are willing to work with anyone in this town who is committed to  lowering the high cost of living.

America is too expensive. Far too many people in this country are  working hard and playing by the rules, but they are unable to get ahead  and can barely get by.

Yet, what we have seen from this Congress is that our colleagues on  the other side of the aisle have consistently made life harder for  everyday Americans. That is what the one big, ugly bill was all about.  It was to hurt everyday Americans in order, Mr. Speaker, to reward  billionaire donors with massive tax breaks.

Why was this done? The one big, ugly bill rips healthcare away from  millions of Americans. Hospitals, nursing homes, and community-based  health clinics will close. The American people are now confronting  dramatic increases in healthcare premiums, copays, and deductibles.  America is already too expensive. President Trump and House Republicans  are making things worse.

Democrats are prepared, under the leadership of Rosa DeLauro, to sit  down anytime and anyplace to negotiate a bipartisan spending agreement  that meets the needs of the American people in terms of their health,  public safety, and economic well-being.

What Democrats will not do, Mr. Speaker, is support partisan spending  legislation put forth by Republicans that continues to gut the  healthcare of the American people.

Enough is enough. We need to reverse the damage that has been done,  not do more.

The big, ugly bill steals food from the mouths of hungry children,  seniors, and veterans. Why? Once again, it is to pay for massive tax  breaks to Republican billionaire donors. This is unacceptable and  unconscionable.

This motion to instruct will help ensure that in a conference between  the House and Senate, between Democrats and Republicans, we are  actually protecting women, infants, and children here in the United  States of America, all over, in urban America, rural America, small- town America, suburban America, exurban America, and the heartland of  America.

The assault on the social safety net that Republicans have engineered  this Congress, Mr. Speaker, has been completely and totally  unacceptable, hurting everyday Americans and exploding the debt and the  deficit at the same period of time.

Nothing has been done by this Republican-led Congress to lower the  high cost of living. Donald Trump promised that costs would go down on  day one. Costs have not gone down. They are going up. Inflation is on  the way up. Life has gotten more expensive. Electricity bills are  skyrocketing and out of control. Now, healthcare premiums are on the  verge of increasing by thousands of dollars a year for 20 million  Americans unless Republicans choose to join us and act with respect to  the tax credits that will expire at the end of this year connected to  the Affordable Care Act.

There is much work that needs to be done. Again, Democrats are ready  to sit down anytime and anyplace to work out a spending bill on a  bipartisan basis that actually makes life better for the American  people, but we will not allow this administration and the Republican  Congress to continue to hurt everyday Americans.

That is why I strongly support this motion to instruct. That is why  we have made clear that under no circumstances will we support a  partisan Republican spending bill that continues to rip away healthcare  from the American people.

Vote ``yes'' on this motion to instruct.