Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696738/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentlewoman, the  top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, for yielding and  for her steadfast leadership on behalf of working families and  hardworking American taxpayers in the great State of Connecticut, and  all across America.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to this woefully  inadequate spending bill that fails to decisively address the  Republican healthcare crisis and fails to extend the Affordable Care  Act tax credits for tens of millions of Americans.

Mr. Speaker, before I say anything further, let me thank our men and  women in uniform, our Active-Duty troops, our hardworking Federal  employees, our civil servants, our TSA agents, our Capitol Police, our  staff here in the House of Representatives, and our air traffic  controllers for their service, their sacrifice, and for the work that  they do on behalf of the American people each and every day. It is our  promise to all of them that we will continue to work hard to make sure  they are treated with the dignity and respect that they deserve in a  year in which the Trump administration has gone after hardworking  Federal employees relentlessly, including firing more than 200,000  Federal employees prior to the start of the Trump Republican shutdown.

Republicans control the House, the Senate, and the Presidency. Donald  Trump and Republicans made the decision to shut the government down,  the longest shutdown in American history. They would rather do that  than provide healthcare that is affordable to working-class Americans,  middle-class Americans, and hardworking American taxpayers.

All across the country, I am certain that there are people in America  asking the question: Where do we go from here?

House Democrats have a simple answer. We will continue to fight to  lower the high cost of living. House Democrats will continue to fight  to address the healthcare crisis that Republicans have created, and  House Democrats will continue to fight to extend the Affordable Care  Act tax credits for tens of millions of Americans.

This fight is not over. We are just getting started. We will fight  today. We will fight tomorrow. We will fight this week. We will fight  next week. We will fight this month. We will fight next month. We will  fight until we win this battle for the American people. That is our  commitment as House Democrats.

There are only two ways that this fight will end. There are only two  ways, Mr. Speaker, that this fight will end: Either Republicans finally  decide to extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits this year or the  American people will throw Republicans out of their jobs next year and  end the speakership of Donald J. Trump once and for all. That is how  this fight ends.

Mr. Speaker, during this painful Trump Republican shutdown, what we  have seen is two different philosophies in terms of how to govern for  the American people. The Democratic Party philosophy is clear. We are  ready, willing, and able to find bipartisan, common ground, anytime,  anyplace, to enact spending agreements that actually make life better  for the American people.

However, in order to do that, we need to have partners on the other  side of the aisle who are actually willing to find the bipartisan path  forward. What we have seen from Republicans from the very beginning  of this Presidency is a my-way-or-the-highway approach. That has been  the Republican philosophy. Jam your extremism down the throats of the  American people. That is what we have seen from day one of this  Presidency. That is the reason why the government has been shut down by  Republicans and Donald Trump for the longest period of time in American  history.

What have we seen from Donald Trump and Republicans during this  shutdown? A consistent unwillingness to actually find common ground in  order to make life better for the American people. Donald Trump, during  the shutdown, found the time to play golf week after week after week.  Donald Trump found the time to pardon serial fraudsters like George  Santos and Rudolph Giuliani. Donald Trump found the time to meet with  the Chinese Communist Party. Donald Trump found the time to destroy the  east wing of the White House. Donald Trump found the time to extort  $230 million from the Department of Justice so he could line his  pockets. Donald Trump found the time to bail out Argentina with $40  billion. Donald Trump found the time to rip away SNAP benefits from 42  million Americans.

Mr. Speaker, these extremists are not like us. They are not like us.  They have zero interest in fighting hard to make life better for the  American people. Their philosophy: My way or the highway. Our response:  Get lost.

We are going to continue to fight hard on behalf of the American  people in the midst of a healthcare crisis and a cost-of-living crisis  that is very real, despite what Donald Trump, the leader of the  Republican Party, has to say. He claims there is no affordability  crisis in the United States of America.

However, why would anyone believe anything that Donald Trump or  Republicans have to say on this issue? Throughout 2024, before the  election, Republicans in the House and the Senate and Donald Trump on  the campaign trail spent all of their time saying that costs were going  to go down on day one.

Mr. Speaker, costs haven't gone down. Republicans haven't done a damn  thing to lower the high cost of living. Costs haven't gone down in this  country. Costs have gone up. Inflation is on the way up. Housing costs  are out of control. Grocery costs are out of control. Electricity bills  are out of control. Healthcare costs are skyrocketing and out of  control.

In the midst of this affordability crisis, seeing this, Democrats  said we have got to fight to make sure we extend Affordable Care Act  tax credits so that tens of millions of people--working-class folks,  middle-class folks, people in rural America, working-class America,  small-town America, the heartland of America, Black and Brown  communities all throughout America--don't experience premium increases  that in some cases will go up by $1,000 or $2,000 per year.

In many cases, month after month after month, it will go up $1,000 or  $2,000 per month. That is tens of thousands of dollars per year. It is  unacceptable in this country, the wealthiest country in the history of  the world. This is in the midst of a Republican healthcare crisis.

Republicans enacted the largest cut to Medicaid in American history.  They ripped health insurance away from 14 million Americans. As a  result of Republican policies, hospitals, nursing homes, and community- based health centers are closing all across America including in rural  parts of this great country of ours.

Now because of the Republican refusal to extend the Affordable Care  Act tax credits, tens of millions of Americans are at risk of being  unable to afford to see a doctor when they need one. It is happening in  this country, the wealthiest country in the history of the world.

It can't be the case that healthcare is simply a privilege for the  wealthy, the well-off, and the well-connected. Mr. Speaker, that is the  Republican perspective.

As Democrats, we believe that healthcare has to be a right and a  right that is affordable and available to every single American in the  United States. That is what this fight is all about, and that is what  the fight will continue to be about as we move forward.

Many of my Republican colleagues have suggested that they want to  deal with the healthcare affordability issue. They want to address the  Republican healthcare crisis that is devastating people all across this  country. We have an opportunity for them to do so.

There is a discharge petition connected to legislation that House  Democrats have introduced to extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits  for 3 years. We believe that working-class Americans, middle-class  Americans, and everyday Americans deserve the same level of certainty  that Republicans always provide to the wealthy, the well-off, and the  well-connected donors. Working-class Americans deserve that level of  certainty.

We ask our Republican colleagues to join us in extending the  Affordable Care Act tax credits. It is not too late. We are in the  midst of open enrollment. The tax credits expire on December 31. We  will stay on this issue until we get this issue resolved for everyday  Americans.

Mr. Speaker, as I close, I have had the opportunity, as many of us  do, to serve in the United States Congress with legendary figures, too  numerous to mention. Some of those legendary Members include, of  course, Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, the great  Jim  Clyburn, Maxine Waters, Elijah Cummings, and Charlie Rangel.

Our own Marcy Kaptur is the longest serving woman in the history of  the United States House of Representatives. We have all had the  opportunity to serve with legendary Members like John Dingell. As I  said, they are too numerous to mention.

Mr. Speaker, one can't call that roll without calling the name of the  great John Lewis. I had the distinct honor of serving with John Lewis  for several terms. Many of us here in the House of Representatives did.

I will never forget on my first day in Congress that I had the  opportunity to meet John Lewis for the first time in person. He called  me over to see him on the House floor. He just asked me a simple  question. He said: Are you the new guy?

I said: Yes, sir, Mr. Lewis, I am.

He said: Well, we are colleagues now. You don't have to call me Mr.  Lewis. You can call me John.

I said: Yes, sir, Mr. Lewis, I understand.

Then he said to me: You are from Brooklyn, right?

Mr. Speaker, I have to be honest. I was tempted to say that Brooklyn  is always in the House. Instead, since my mother, Laneda Jeffries,  raised me with some sense, I said: Yes, sir, I am from Brooklyn.

Then he said something to me that I have never forgotten. He said:  Well, I hear some positive things about you from your predecessor, but  Washington, D.C., young man, can be a rough place. I don't want you to  get into any trouble unless it is good trouble.

Mr. Speaker, I wanted to stop by on the House floor to make sure it  is clear to the American people that the spirit of John Lewis lives  amongst House Democrats. We will continue to get into good trouble to  make their lives better. That is our commitment to every single  American all across this country, from this day and for every day,  moving forward.

It was John Lewis who said to us that ours is not the struggle of one  day, one week, or one year. Ours is the struggle of a lifetime and  maybe even many lifetimes. Each one of us in every generation must do  our part.

Mr. Speaker, we love Mr. Lewis. We were blessed by our opportunity to  serve with him. House Democrats are here to do our part. We are in this  fight until we win this fight for the American people.