Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700501/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, the distinguished  gentleman from Queens and the great State of New York, the once and  future chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Meeks, for his  leadership and for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the American people,  in support of our men and women in uniform, in support of the United  States Constitution, and in support of this War Powers Resolution.

As we gather here today on the floor of the House of Representatives,  there are mothers and fathers across this country who are in mourning,  confronting the heartbreaking loss of their loved ones in uniform.

My prayers are with the families of the six American servicemembers  who have been killed overseas in Donald Trump's war of choice. We are  thankful for their heroism, their bravery, and their patriotism. May  their memories always be a blessing.

Mr. Speaker, every Member who serves in this Chamber has sworn an  oath of office. It seems as though many of my Republican colleagues  have forgotten that. Let me remind them, in part, as to what it says:  ``I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution  of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic . . . so  help me God.''

In this remarkable country, the greatest Nation in the history of the  world, we don't swear an oath to a king, to a political party, or to a  man bent on desecrating the Oval Office. In the Congress, in the  courts, and in the military, we swear an oath to the United States  Constitution.

Mr. Speaker, when the Framers drafted that glorious document, they  feared the rise of a monarch, a demagogue, a tyrant. Today, we are here  on the House floor because the Constitution, the binding document that  makes us all Americans, is being trampled on by a wannabe king.

As Members of the House of Representatives, the branch of government  that the Framers decided would be the closest to the American people,  to reflect the hopes, the dreams, the aspirations, the fears, the  concerns, the anxieties, the life experiences, and the passions of the  American people, we have a solemn obligation.

Democrats and Republicans alike, we are all guardians of the American  people and of the Constitution. We swore an oath that compels us to  ensure that this President's modern-day injuries and abuses come to an  end.

We are at war now in the Middle East, spending billions of dollars to  bomb Iran, when Republicans refused to find a dime to make healthcare  affordable for the American people and to make sure that everyday  Americans can go see a doctor when they need one.

This war has not been authorized by the people's Representatives here  in this glorious House. Article I of the Constitution explicitly  provides Congress with the sole authority to declare war. There is  nothing ambiguous about that.

The Framers made that decision because they were concerned about  kings who, throughout time, plunged their people into unnecessary wars,  impoverishing them, or imperiling their lives by sending them off to a  foreign conflict, often to pillage the resources of others for the  benefit of a tyrant and his family. Sound familiar?

That is why the power to declare war was given explicitly to the  House and to the Senate. It was given to the people's Representatives.

Abraham Lincoln, as a Member of this House in 1848, once profoundly  observed: ``The provision of the Constitution giving the warmaking  power to Congress, was dictated, as I understand it, by the following  reasons--Kings had always been involving and impoverishing their people  in wars, pretending generally, if not always, that the good of the  people was the object. This, our convention understood to be the most  oppressive of all kingly oppressions; and they resolved to so frame the  Constitution that no one man should hold the power of bringing this  oppression upon us.''

That is from then Republican Congressman Abraham Lincoln, 1848.

That is why we have advanced this War Powers Resolution today. Donald  Trump intentionally refused to get authorization from Congress for this  war of choice, a war that has now exploded to more than 10 countries  across the Middle East.

Mr. Speaker, the President has not even bothered to offer a coherent  answer to the most basic questions that any Commander in Chief should  address when making the solemn decision to take us to war: Why are we  doing this? What are our objectives? How will this all end?

Mr. Speaker, if this military action, this war, is so principled, why  is the President unwilling or unable to make his case directly to the  American people?

If the tremendous cost to American taxpayers in terms of sacred human  lives and our Nation's precious resources is so justified, why does the  President's rationale and the administration's rationale change every  single day?

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake. Iran is a bad actor. They must be  confronted for their nuclear aspirations, painful human rights abuses,  and repression of its own people, including the slaughter of thousands  of civilians during the recent protests.

It is the leading state sponsor of terrorism. It is a brutal regime  that presents a serious threat to our allies in the Middle East,  including Israel, Jordan, and the Gulf states. Yet, the President has a  responsibility to justify plunging America into another war that will  cost more American lives and billions of dollars, if not trillions of  dollars, in taxpayer resources. That is the President's obligation, and  he has fallen woefully short of that responsibility.

Mr. Speaker, the Trump administration has offered at least five  different reasons to justify the war, all of which are built on  deception and misdirection.

First, Donald Trump claimed that the U.S. would attack Iran to  protect the demonstrators who were risking their lives to demand  democratic change. He even urged them weeks ago to rise up and seize  state institutions. As the regime cracked down brutally, killing tens  of thousands of their own citizens, the President did nothing.

Even as Donald Trump urged ordinary Iranians to take greater risks,  there was never a viable military option for defending unarmed  protesters against a brutal police state without sending hundreds of  thousands of American troops into Iran. It was an empty pledge to the  Iranian people that the current bombing campaign does nothing to undo.

Second, Donald Trump and his advisers claimed that Iran's  unwillingness to negotiate away its nuclear program left no choice but  for us to attack.

Mr. Speaker, this is the very same person who told the country last  summer that Iran's nuclear program was completely and totally  obliterated. This is the same administration whose Department of  Defense has said that the Iranian nuclear program was set back several  years and whose State Department has said that Iran isn't even  enriching uranium today.

Mr. Speaker, was the Commander in Chief confused in June, or is he  confused right now?

It was not long ago when America could be sure that we were  preventing Iran from pursuing a nuclear weapon. The Iran nuclear  agreement successfully did that until Donald Trump recklessly decided  to pull the plug because he suffers from Obama derangement syndrome.

The President has spent much of the past year trying and failing to  restore the same negotiated safeguards that he abandoned for partisan  political reasons, and because of his failure to negotiate the  guardrails that he destroyed, he has now taken us to war.

Third, President Trump claims that Iran poses an imminent threat to  the United States through its development of intercontinental ballistic  missiles that could perhaps someday reach our shores. If Iran is  actually on the verge of having that capability, the President should  provide the evidence, but no such evidence has been presented to this  Congress or to the American people. We could only assume that it does  not exist.

Fourth, Donald Trump said that he wanted to achieve regime change.  Donald Trump is an individual who promised Americans on the campaign  trail that launching regime-change wars in the Middle East has been one  of the most foolish and costly things that the United States has ever  done. Those are Donald Trump's words on the campaign trail.

Candidate Trump said that, if elected, he would never get our country  into an endless regime war. President Trump has now done the exact  opposite.

Regime-change wars are among the most expensive things that we can  undertake. And yes, Secretary Hegseth, for decades, they have failed to  accomplish their objective.

Vietnam was a regime-change war. Afghanistan was a regime-change war.  Iraq was a regime-change war. Despite the incredible bravery of our  heroes and patriots, due to failed policy decisions, they didn't work  out.

Even if the Iranian regime were to fall, we have no way to control  what comes next, which most experts believe would be the Iranian  Revolutionary Guard-led government rising up and being just as  repressive and antagonistic as the current theocracy and perhaps even  more committed to the acquisition of nuclear weapons.

Fifth and most recently, Donald Trump said: I ``had a feeling'' Iran  would attack first, as some sort of rationale for going to war. Donald  Trump had a feeling that Iran would attack.

The United States Government has initiated a war and put American  lives at risk. Six patriots have already been killed. Thousands of  American citizens are stranded in the Middle East, and he has plunged  the entire Middle East into a war and chaos over a feeling.

It is outrageous. It is unacceptable. It shocks the conscience.

In the last few days, six servicemembers have died, and the Trump  administration has acknowledged that more of our heroes are going to be  killed. We have no concrete justification for why we are putting  American troops in harm's way and spending billions of dollars on a  foreign war while the affordability crisis rages here at home--a crisis  Donald Trump said he would fix on day one but, instead, Republican  policies have made worse.

Taxpayer dollars should be used to drop grocery prices, drop housing  costs, and drop health insurance premiums. Instead, Donald Trump is  spending billions of taxpayer dollars to drop bombs in the Middle East.

Mr. Speaker, the President's war is unwise. It is unpopular,  unauthorized, unlawful, and unconstitutional. In the United States, we  serve the rule of law, not the rule of man.

James Madison once wrote in 1788: ``The accumulation of all powers,  legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the same hands . . . may  justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny.''

Our Constitution requires the President get approval from Congress  before launching a war. That has not happened, and that is why this  bipartisan resolution, led by Democrats, is on the floor of the House  of Representatives today.

In their wisdom, the Framers believed that they had made it  impossible for a President to do what Donald Trump has just done and  that no other President has done before: launched a major war in the  Middle East without the approval of Congress.

That is what Donald Trump's time in office has been all about:  failure after failure, betrayal after betrayal, disaster after  disaster.

In his return to the Presidency, Mr. Speaker, Donald Trump has left  America less prosperous, less safe, and less free. He has hurt us again  and again, failed us again and again, and now, by launching this  unauthorized war of choice, he is setting fire to our Constitution.

The American people deserve better. Democrats are committed to  continuing to fight to use American taxpayer dollars to lower the high  costs of living, to fix our broken healthcare system, and to clean up  corruption.

I stand on the floor here today to make sure that those taxpayer  dollars are being used in ways that are designed to make life better  for the American people, not launching another endless war in the  Middle East that is destined to cost more American lives and waste  billions, if not trillions, in taxpayer dollars.

Democrats are here to stand up for the American people. Democrats are  here to stand up for our men and women in uniform. Democrats are here  to stand up for the rule of law and the United States Constitution.  Democrats will not rest until this national nightmare has ended and  America can continue to march toward a more perfect Union.

Vote ``yes'' on this War Powers Resolution.