Expressing Support for Tax Policies That Support Working Families


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701802/expressing-support-for-tax-policies-that-support-working-families


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend and colleague, the  distinguished gentleman from the great State of California,  Representative   Mike Thompson, for yielding and for his leadership.

We are here on the House floor debating this resolution that  Republicans have introduced on tax day to celebrate themselves. This is  an extraordinary thing. I have seen a lot during my time here in the  United States Congress for more than 10 years. I have never seen a  resolution introduced by Members of Congress, let alone a party, the  Republican Party, to celebrate themselves for a bill that has damaged  the American people.

However, if you are around this town long enough, I guess you see it  all.

I am confused with H. Res. 1156 because the first clause says:  Whereas, on July 4, 2025, the President signed Public Law 119-21,  commonly known as the ``Working Families Tax Cuts.'' It is commonly  known to whom?

Let's be clear with the American people: Republicans have made up  that name. Why? It is because the bill, the actual name of the bill in  Public Law 119-21 is the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. It is deeply  unpopular with the American people, who know it has been a disaster.

Now, I have respect for the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.  He recently just called it the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. I am not  sure he is allowed to do that because Donald Trump has made clear: Walk  away from that name that he gave to the bill himself. Why? It is  because the American people understand it has been a disaster.

The American people know that this resolution is not worth the paper  that it is written on. It does nothing. It doesn't have the force of  law and does nothing to keep the promises that Donald Trump made to the  American people that on day one of his Presidency, he was going to  lower costs.

However, here in America, Mr. Speaker, costs haven't gone down, costs  have gone up because of decisions that Donald Trump and Republicans  have made to hurt the American people.

The Trump tariffs have cost everyday Americans thousands of dollars  in additional expense per year. That is an affirmative decision to hurt  the American people.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans have refused to extend the Affordable Care  Act tax credits. As a result of that very decision, more than 20  million Americans are experiencing dramatically increased health  insurance premiums, in some cases costs having increased by over $1,000  per month. That is an affirmative decision that Republicans have made  to increase costs.

Now, there is a reckless war of choice that has been raging in the  Middle East. More than a dozen brave American heroes have already lost  their lives. Hundreds have been seriously injured. Billions of taxpayer  dollars are being spent per day to drop bombs in the Middle East, and  yet Republicans are unwilling to spend a dime to make life more  affordable for the American people.

In fact, this reckless war of choice, this Trump Republican war over  in the Middle East has skyrocketed gas prices. All across America, more  than $4 a gallon, largest increase in gas prices on a monthly basis in  more than 60 years. Republicans have done that to the American people.

In the face of such policy failure and the one big, ugly bill being  such a disaster, we have this resolution in front of us, not worth the  paper that it is written on. It doesn't even reference the name of the  bill that was passed. Why is that? Because Republicans are trying to  hide what has been done to the American people.

Let me just briefly talk about five different things that are in the  one big, ugly bill that have caused real harm. One, the one big, ugly  bill contained the largest cut to Medicaid in American history, almost  a trillion dollar cut to Medicaid. As a result of that, almost 14  million Americans are at risk of losing their health insurance because  of the bill that Republicans are celebrating on the floor here today.

As a result of that Medicaid cut, the largest in history, hospitals,  nursing homes, and community-based health centers are at a risk of  closing all across the country, including in rural America, as a result  of the legislation that Republicans are celebrating here on the floor  today, though they are running away from the name of the bill because  it is such a disaster.

The second problem with the legislation that Republicans are  celebrating on the floor today is in that one big, ugly bill, they cut  $186 billion, Mr. Speaker, Republicans cut $186 billion in nutritional  assistance, the largest cut to SNAP in American history, literally  ripping food from the mouths of hungry children, seniors, and veterans  in this one big, ugly bill. Now my Republican colleagues have the nerve  to come on the floor today with this resolution and celebrate that?

The third problem with the bill, amongst many, is that after cutting  Medicaid, ripping healthcare away from the American people, stealing  food from the mouths of hungry children, seniors, and veterans, $75  billion in taxpayer money was set aside in a slush fund so that ICE can  brutalize and in some cases kill American citizens. There is a $75  billion slush fund for ICE in this one big, ugly bill that Republicans  are on the floor celebrating today, with active harm being done to the  American people, including resulting in the deaths, the cold-blooded  killing of two American citizens, Renee Nicole Good and Alex Pretti.

The fourth problem with this bill on tax day is who the beneficiaries  of this legislation include. Every economist who has studied this  legislation knows that it overwhelmingly and disproportionately  benefits the wealthy, the well-off, and the well-connected. In  fact, the American people know it, which is why this resolution doesn't  even make mention of the official name of the bill, because Republicans  are running away from it.

The bottom line is, Medicaid was cut. Nutritional assistance was cut.  ICE was given this slush fund of $75 billion; and billionaire donors to  the Republican Party were given massive tax breaks that they did not  need and do not deserve in an environment where working families,  everyday Americans, middle-class Americans, working-class Americans are  struggling to make ends meet, can't thrive, and can barely survive.

Yet, what was done in this one big, ugly bill that Republicans are  celebrating on the floor today? Massive tax breaks to Republican  billionaire donors, not making life more affordable to the American  people, because the American people know that life has become more  expensive, not less under Donald Trump's Presidency and failed  Republican policies.

The fifth problem, amongst many, is that for years Republicans have  portrayed themselves, Mr. Speaker, as the party of fiscal  responsibility. This is one of the most fiscally irresponsible bills  being celebrated on the floor today by Republicans ever to pass the  United States Congress, going all the way back to 1789.

It is legislation that increased the debt by more than $4 trillion to  give ICE a $75 billion slush fund to cut Medicaid, to rip food from the  mouths of children, and to subsidize the life-styles of the rich and  shameless. This is nothing to celebrate here on the floor today.

I am thankful to   Mike Thompson, my colleague, and distinguished  members of the Ways and Means Committee for communicating to the  American people the truth. We will be opposing this resolution, a  resolution not worth the paper that it is written on, something that  doesn't even have the force of law, because as Democrats we are  committed to actually solving problems for the American people, for  making life more affordable for the American people, for ending this  reckless war of choice in the Middle East that has skyrocketed gas  prices, to fix our broken healthcare system, reverse these Medicaid  cuts that are part of this one big, ugly bill. Extend the Affordable  Care Act tax credits and actually commit to doing things, legislating-- not pontificating--legislating in ways that make life better for the  American people.