Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, let me first thank Richard Neal, the once  and future chairman of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, as well  as Frank Pallone,  Bobby Scott, all my colleagues in government on the  Democratic side, and the Republicans who have joined us now to make  sure that we extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits which are  scheduled to expire at the end of this month.

For months now, Democrats have made clear that we have a broken  healthcare system that Republicans continue to destroy. They have  exacerbated our healthcare crisis month after month after month,  including with the one big, ugly bill, with the largest cut to Medicaid  in American history, ripping healthcare away from 14 million Americans.

Hospitals, nursing homes, and community-based health centers are  closing all across the country, including in rural America because of  the Republican healthcare crisis.

Republicans, Mr. Speaker, continue to attack the National Institutes  of Health, the Centers for Disease Control, the FDA, and vaccine  availability.

Republicans have launched an all-out assault on the healthcare of the  American people, and it continues today with this toxic piece of  legislation that will rip healthcare away from an additional 4 million  people and jam junk health insurance plans down the throats of the  American people.

Democrats are strongly opposed to this legislation, and the American  people know Republicans have zero credibility on fighting to protect  their healthcare.

In this great country of ours, the wealthiest country in the history  of the world, it should be the case, we believe, that access to high- quality healthcare should not simply be a privilege available only to  the wealthy, the well-off, and the well-connected. Access to high- quality healthcare should be a right available to every single  American. That is what House Democrats are continuing to fight hard to  achieve.

One of the ways we can make sure that we strive to achieve that  principle is to extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits, which are  scheduled to expire in 15 days. That means that tens of millions of  Americans, working-class Americans, middle-class Americans, people in  urban America, rural America, small-town America, suburban America, the  heartland of America, Black and Brown communities all throughout  America, tens of millions of people, Americans of every stripe, in  every region, are about to experience their health insurance premiums  increase in some instances by $1,000 or $2,000 per month. That is  unacceptable.

Now, we have a bipartisan coalition here in the House of  Representatives, at least 218 votes, to extend the Affordable Care Act  tax credits for 3 years, to provide everyday Americans with the  certainty they deserve in terms of being able to afford to go see a  doctor when they need one.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans need to bring the Affordable Care Act tax  credit extension bill to the floor today. Under no circumstances should  we leave this Capitol this week before voting on an extension of the  Affordable Care Act tax credit bill that we know will pass, that the  votes exist, in a bipartisan way, to protect the healthcare of everyday  Americans.

House Democrats have made clear we are in this fight until we win  this fight, to cancel the cuts, lower the costs, save healthcare, and  extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits.