Marking 15 Years Since Tucson Shooting


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698770/marking-15-years-since-tucson-shooting


Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, Madam Speaker Emerita, Senator Mark  Kelly, the Arizona delegation, and to all of my colleagues who are  present here today, I rise on the 15th anniversary of the tragic mass  shooting in Tucson, Arizona, that took 6 lives and injured 13 others,  including our former colleague, our good friend, Congresswoman Gabby  Giffords, an extraordinary American leader who I am pleased to say is  here with us in the Chamber today.

At 10:10 a.m. mountain standard time, in Tucson, Arizona, during a  Congress on Your Corner event being held by Representative Gabby  Giffords to serve her constituents, a gunman opened fire on this  peaceful gathering.

We mourn for those whose lives were lost on that fateful day: John  Roll, a Federal judge and public servant; Gabe Zimmerman, a dedicated  congressional staffer; a precious 9-year-old girl named Christina- Taylor Green; and beloved community members Dorothy ``Dot'' Morris,  Phyllis Schneck, and Dorwan Stoddard.

At the same time, we are thankful to God for the survival, the  resilience, the courage, the strength, the persistence of Congresswoman  Giffords and all those who survived on that fateful day.

Prior to this assassination attempt, Congresswoman Giffords served  this body and the people of Arizona's Eighth District with great  distinction, dedication, and determination. Her policy interests were  diverse, spanning from immigration reform, economic opportunity, and  promoting solar and clean energy.

After experiencing firsthand, in the most horrific fashion possible,  the horror of a mass shooting, she refocused her efforts on ending the  gun violence epidemic in America once and for all. We honor her and  celebrate her for the transformational work that she has done in the  years that have followed.

House Democrats stand with Gabby and with all Americans who say  enough is enough.

Enough with the gun violence epidemic being the leading cause of  death for the children in this country.

Enough with mass shootings being as frequent as the common cold.

Enough with the text messages to parents saying ``I love you''  because there is another active school shooter.

Enough with the mass-casualty incidents at concerts, grocery stores,  movie theatres, nightclubs, churches, mosques, synagogues, and other  gathering places.

Enough with weapons of war flooding our communities, while merchants  of death rake in record profits.

Enough unnecessary loss of life due to preventable, senseless gun  violence.

This is the cause to which Congresswoman Giffords has now dedicated  her life, and we all join her in proclaiming enough is enough.

It is time to end the gun violence epidemic in America once and for  all.

While the challenges to address this crisis may feel insurmountable  at times, we cannot and will not give up hope, inspired by the  perseverance of our dear leader, Congresswoman Giffords.

I am heartened by the work that has been done despite the  considerable forces that have been arrayed against us.

That progress includes, under the leadership of then-Speaker Nancy  Pelosi, passage of the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act in 2022, which  represented the strongest new Federal gun safety legislation in 30  years.

Our job, of course, as Gabby makes clear, is far from finished. Every  day an average of 327 people are shot in this country, including 23  children shot on average every day. Over 65 million Americans say at  least one person in their family has been fatally shot, their lives  extinguished by gun violence in this country. There are 393 million  guns in the United States of America, more guns than people, and law  enforcement can't tell you where a majority of those guns are because  of barriers that have been erected keeping criminals protected.

It does not have to be this way. We know there are commonsense  solutions to stop the gun violence and keep the American people safe.

We can start by closing the gun background loophole that allows  dangerous people to buy firearms without background checks.

We need to ban assault weapons in the United States of America to  prevent these weapons of war from continuing to destroy the lives of  everyday Americans.

Led by our distinguished appropriators like Rosa DeLauro, we are  continuing to fight for robust funding for community violence  intervention programs and appropriate funding for the ATF and gun  violence research. Breaking the devastating cycle of gun violence that  has a choke hold on this country is one of our Caucus' highest  priorities and will be a high-priority issue when we take back control  of the majority after the November election.

Democrats are continuing to maintain our commitment to keep everyday  Americans safe from the scourge of gun violence, and we will not stop  fighting for proven policies that we know will reduce gun violence in  every community throughout our Nation.

I encourage my colleagues to support the resolution introduced by  Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz to commemorate the tragic event  that occurred on January 8, 2011.

I once again thank our colleague, our fearless leader, our  distinguished champion, Congresswoman Giffords, for her presence here  today on this solemn anniversary and for her tireless, matchless,  incredible advocacy to end the scourge of gun violence in the United  States of America once and for all.

I now ask everyone in the Chamber to stand, and for everyone  throughout the campus to join us in a moment of silence to commemorate  the lives lost and the lives forever changed by the tragic shooting  that occurred on January 8, 2011.