Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699898/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentleman who is  my friend from the great State of Colorado, Representative Neguse, for  yielding time and for his leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to this rule, another  reckless effort by the Republican majority to stop this House from  doing something to stop the reckless Trump tariffs.

Mr. Speaker, the House of Representatives, part of this Congress, is  a separate and coequal branch of government. We don't work for Donald  Trump. We don't work for J.D. Vance, and we don't work for Republican  billionaire donors. We work for the American people.

The Constitution, Mr. Speaker, gives this House the explicit  authority with respect to tariffs. Yet because apparently my Republican  colleagues have been ordered by the current President not to allow an  up-or-down vote on whether his tariffs are harmful to the American  people, once again, we find ourselves discussing a rule to limit the  ability of this Congress to act on behalf of the American people.

This is consistent with what we have seen from the Republican  majority, Mr. Speaker, from the very beginning of this Congress, which,  unfortunately, continues to act like nothing more than a reckless  rubberstamp for Donald Trump's extreme agenda, an agenda that is not  helping the American people. It is hurting the American people.

Yes, we have a cost-of-living crisis in this country, and I know the  President doesn't want to talk about it. He thinks it is a Democratic  hoax.

No, the affordability crisis in this country is not a hoax. It is  very real. Working-class Americans, middle-class Americans, and  everyday Americans are suffering because of the failed Trump Republican  economy.

Donald Trump, his words, promised to lower the high cost of living on  day one. More than 1 year later in the United States of America, Mr.  Speaker, costs haven't gone down. Costs have gone up. Housing costs are  out of control. Healthcare costs are out of control. Childcare costs  are out of control. Electricity bills are out of control, and the price  of groceries and everyday goods are completely out of control.

One of the reasons why the cost of living continues to crush the  American people is because of the Trump tariffs which have imposed  thousands of dollars in additional costs on everyday Americans, making  life even more expensive than it had been when this Presidency began.

Why is it so complicated for Donald Trump to keep his promise to the  American people to lower costs and to focus on making life more  affordable?

Instead, he has gone the opposite direction, imposing tariffs on our  allies in Canada and Mexico, in Europe and across the world, without  any clear strategy, having an adverse effect on the pocketbook of  everyday Americans.

This Congress is charged constitutionally with the ability to say yes  or no as it relates to tariffs that have been imposed. In fact, the  President should have sought our authorization.

Instead, he is using a fake emergency authority that hopefully the  Supreme Court will make clear he does not have, and we certainly await  that decision. However, we don't need to wait for that decision. We  don't work for the Supreme Court either.

The House is the Article I branch of government, the institution that  the Framers decided should be the part of government that is closest to  the American people, that reflects the hopes, the dreams, the  aspirations, the fears, the concerns, the anxieties, the passions, and  the life experiences of the American people, who are suffering right  now in this failed Trump Republican economy.

That is not just my simple observation. FOX News, the President's  favorite news source, in a recent public opinion survey concluded that  more than 70 percent of the American people believe, correctly, the  economy is a disaster under this President.

One of the reasons why it is a disaster is because of the reckless  Trump tariffs. The Republican majority, Mr. Speaker, won't even allow  an up-or-down vote. That is what this rule is about--silencing debate  and the will of the people's Representatives to do something meaningful  to make life more affordable for the American people.

I asked some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who know  that this so-called mandate that Republicans apparently believe they  had in the aftermath of the November 2024 elections--parenthetically,  by the way, what mandate do they really think they have in this House  when they have the narrowest majority that any party has had since 1930  during the Great Depression?

In fact, we also know they wouldn't even be in the majority right now  had they not stolen three seats from the people of North Carolina with  mid-decade gerrymandering in 2024. Therefore, we don't want to hear  anything about mandate.

The only mandate we have collectively is to make life more affordable  for everyday Americans, to drive down the high cost of living, to stop  burying your head in the sand, to stop being a reckless rubberstamp for  Donald Trump's extreme agenda, to stand up to him every now and then as  part of a separate and coequal branch of government.

Stop the cult-like behavior, Mr. Speaker. It is hurting your very  constituents.

We have an opportunity, if we vote down this rule, to actually take  up for consideration the resolution put forward by Congressman Meeks  that would wipe out the unnecessary tariff imposed on our ally to the  north in Canada. It is a step that should have been taken a long time  ago, but Republicans have been blocking this vote.

I just hope that a handful of Republicans will join every single  House Democrat in opposing this rule so we can get to a debate on the  actual substantive effort to stop the reckless, dangerous, and harmful  Trump tariffs as part of our commitment as Democrats to do what is  necessary to lower the high cost of living and to make sure that every  single American in this country, when they work hard, when they play by  the rules, they should be able to live an affordable life, a  comfortable life, and live the good life.

It is not too much to ask for in the wealthiest country, America, in  the history of the world. Work hard. Play by the rules. Live the good  life. Good-paying job, good housing, good healthcare, good education  for the children, and a good retirement--which means backing off  extreme attacks on Social Security and Medicare--that is a Democratic  commitment.

In order to help bring about that good life, Mr. Speaker, one of the  most meaningful things that we can do as a body is to stop the harmful  Trump tariffs. Vote ``no'' against this rule.