Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701512/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank my distinguished colleague, the  top Democrat on the Rules Committee,  Jim McGovern, for yielding and  for his leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to this partisan  political stunt that Republicans have brought to the floor masquerading  as legitimate legislation.

There is a bipartisan bill that, if brought to the floor today, can  end the 42-day Trump-Republican shutdown of the Department of Homeland  Security,  but Republicans have concluded that they would rather continue to force  TSA agents to work without pay, inconvenience millions of Americans all  across the country, and create chaos at airports.

Why is this happening? It is because Republicans have chosen to  continue to authorize spending billions of taxpayer dollars to  brutalize or kill American citizens, like Renee Nicole Good or Alex  Pretti, or to violently target law-abiding immigrant families.

Mr. Speaker, we believe that immigration enforcement in this country  should be fair, just, and humane. That is not what is happening right  now. ICE is out of control. The American people know it, which is why  changes need to be made that are bold, meaningful, dramatic,  transformational, and common sense at the same period of time.

Instead, Republicans have chosen to double and triple down on their  extremism, on their brutality, and on their violence that has been  unleashed on everyday Americans all across the country.

There is a bipartisan bill sent over from the Senate. Every single  Senate Democrat and every single Senate Republican supported that  legislation. It would reopen the TSA, reopen FEMA, reopen the Coast  Guard, and reopen the ability for our cybersecurity professionals to do  their job while at the same time allowing for discussions, tough  negotiations, to continue.

On one side of those negotiations are my Republican colleagues who  want to continue to spend taxpayer dollars to brutalize and kill  American citizens; unleashing masked, untrained ICE agents, in some  cases storming homes of everyday Americans, ripping them out of their  beds in the middle of the night, ripping children away from their  families, detaining people in inhumane conditions, and refusing to  allow State and local authorities to investigate ICE's violence and  brutality in ways that will be designed to bring about accountability.

This debate, at the end of the day, is really all about: Do you want  to compel ICE to conduct themselves like every other cop, police  officer, or law enforcement agency in the country, or do you want to  continue to spend billions of taxpayer dollars to violently  target American citizens and law-abiding immigrant families?

We choose the American way: fair, just, and humane.

Mr. Speaker, many of my Republican colleagues have come to the floor  to suggest that this legislation is about defunding ICE. That is a  stone-cold lie because we know that the Republican one big, ugly bill  ripped away Medicaid from 14 million Americans, the largest cut--almost  $1 trillion--to Medicaid in American history. At the same period of  time, extremist Republicans in their one big, ugly bill enacted a $186  billion cut to nutritional assistance, literally ripped food from the  mouths of hungry children, seniors, and veterans.

Why did Republicans do that in their one big, ugly bill? In part, it  was to provide their billionaire donors with massive tax breaks that  they did not need and did not deserve and, at the same period of time,  gave the Department of Homeland Security $191 billion--watch this--$75  billion in a slush fund to ICE.

Is that defunding? No. The one big, ugly bill defunded Medicaid. It  defunded nutritional assistance for everyday Americans. It defunded  some affordable housing programs. It defunded the ability for everyday  Americans who are struggling under Republican policies to actually  afford their utility bills. That was the defunding that has taken place  in this Chamber during this Congress.

Defunding ICE--how do you stand up here as Republicans and say that  to the American people with a straight face when you gave ICE a $75  billion slush fund and then turned around and gave CBP a $65 billion  slush fund in the same one big, ugly bill?

The reality is that we can end this shutdown--this 42-day, extreme  Trump-Republican shutdown--today. If Republicans had the courage and  the patriotism to actually bring a bipartisan Senate-passed bill to the  floor, it would pass this Chamber with Democratic and Republican votes.  Maybe not the extremists, but it would pass with Democratic and  Republican votes.     Mike Johnson has chosen to say ``no'' to a bipartisan bill so that  he can say ``yes'' to continuing to force TSA agents to work without  pay.     Mike Johnson has said ``no'' to a bipartisan bill so that he could  say ``yes'' to continuing to inconvenience millions of the American  people across the country.     Mike Johnson has said ``no'' to a bipartisan bill so that House  Republicans could say ``yes'' to chaos at airports all across the  country.     Mike Johnson has said ``no'' to a bipartisan bill so that House  Republicans could continue to say ``yes'' to ICE brutality.       Mike Johnson has said no to a bipartisan Senate-passed bill so  House Republicans could continue to say yes to ICE violence.     Mike Johnson has said no to a bipartisan Senate-passed bill so  House Republicans could continue to say yes to the corruption that we  have seen at the Department of Homeland Security.     Mike Johnson has said no to a bipartisan Senate-passed bill that  would reopen the Department of Homeland Security so House Republicans  could say yes to the Freedom Caucus, which is clearly driving the train  here.

It was amazing to me that at the Rules Committee, you had some  Republican Members trying to lecture America about Article I and  separate and coequal branches of government. Really, you want to talk  about the House and the Senate? I am not interested in that debate.

Let's talk about the difference between Article I and Article II,  because the Framers of this Constitution designed the Article I branch,  the Congress, to be the first amongst equals.

That is not how House Republicans have been acting from the very  beginning of this Congress. Instead, House Republicans are running  around this town acting like nothing more than a reckless rubberstamp  to Donald Trump's extreme agenda. That is what is happening right now.  What House Republicans want to do is to continue to fund Donald Trump's  violent, extreme, mass deportation machine that has resulted in the  death of at least three American citizens.

Lecture us about Article I and Article II, you have got to be  kidding.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to continue to speak truth to power on this  floor as a duly-elected Member, and the more you stand, the longer I  will speak.

So our view is very clear. We can reopen this government today if you  bring to the House floor a bipartisan, Senate-passed bill. As  Democrats, we believe that immigration enforcement in this country  should be fair, it should be just, and it should be humane.

Donald Trump promised to target violent felons who are here  illegally. That is what Republicans promised.

You have broken your word. It is American citizens and law-abiding  immigrant families who are being targeted violently by untrained and  masked ICE agents.

Our position is pretty clear: Let's pay TSA. Let's fund FEMA. Let's  fund the Coast Guard. Let's fund our cybersecurity professionals. Stop  holding the American people hostage to an extreme rightwing agenda.

Taxpayer dollars should be spent to make life more affordable for the  American people. That is what Democrats will continue to focus on, in  an environment where life has become more expensive under the extreme  policies that President Trump and House Republicans continue to jam  down the throats of the American people: the Trump tariffs, increasing  costs on everyday Americans by millions of dollars in totality,  thousands of dollars per year for everyday Americans as a family.

House Republicans have refused, Senate Republicans have refused, and  Donald Trump has refused to do anything to make life more affordable.  Housing costs are out of control. Healthcare costs are out of control.  Grocery bills are out of control. Gas prices are out of control because  Republicans have decided to get us into a reckless war of choice in the  Middle East, spending billions of dollars to drop bombs in Iran.

Mr. Speaker, we are here dealing with a partisan spending bill that  the Senate has already indicated is dead on arrival. Republicans have  taken the decision to own this shutdown decisively. There is no doubt.  As Ranking Member  Jim McGovern stated earlier, there is no doubt as to  why we are still facing  a shutdown that is inflicting pain, chaos, and uncertainty on the  American people.

I rise in strong opposition to this so-called spending bill that is  dead on arrival, that will do nothing, accomplish nothing, other than  continuing the shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security and the  chaos that Republicans have unleashed in airports all across America.

House Democrats are going to continue to fight for what is right. We  are going to continue to fight to lower the high cost of living, fix  our broken healthcare system, clean up corruption, stop this reckless  war of choice in the Middle East, get ICE under control, pay TSA, end  the chaos at these airports, and end this national nightmare that  Donald Trump and Republicans are inflicting upon the American people.

Vote ``no'' against this partisan political stunt.

Let's say ``yes'' instead to a bipartisan bill that would reopen the  Department of Homeland Security, end the chaos at airports, and stop  the inconvenience of the American people.