Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692530/rescissions-act-of-2025


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished gentlewoman from  the great State of Connecticut for yielding and for her tremendous  leadership in pushing back against this reckless Republican rescissions  package.

It is extraordinary to me that, once again, we are on the floor of  the House of Representatives not debating legislation that Republicans  bring forward, Mr. Speaker, that is designed to lower the high cost of  living in the United States of America, a promise that Republicans  repeatedly made last year to the American people and now have  repeatedly broken.

Throughout this Congress, not a single bill has been brought to the  House floor by my Republican colleagues that addresses the high cost of  living in the United States of America--not a single bill.

House Republicans and President Trump promised that costs were going  to go down in the United States of America. In fact, the majority has  said that costs were going to go down on day one. Yet, we know that  costs haven't gone down in this great country, Mr. Speaker. Costs have  gone up.

America is too expensive. Housing costs are too high. Grocery costs  are too high. Utility costs are too high. Childcare costs are too high.  Insurance costs are too high. America is too expensive.

Republicans have decided that, in the face of this affordability  crisis in the United States of America, the majority is going to  undermine America's ability to protect our national security through  the exercise of soft power and addressing in a bipartisan way the HIV  and AIDS epidemic, a program that was first put into place by President  George W. Bush and has saved the lives of millions of people across the  world and, of course, people here at home by fighting against this  epidemic.

America is made safer when we are able to invest in diplomacy,  development, and democracy across the world, particularly in the face  of aggressive efforts by China, Russia, and other malignant actors to  move the world in a different place.

Mr. Speaker, this reckless Republican rescissions package will  undermine America's national security and undermine public health here  in this country and across the world. It actually represents an attack  on children.

This is extraordinary to me. We are on the floor of the House of  Representatives not debating legislation that is designed to make this  country and our economy more affordable but actually debating  legislation that targets Elmo, Big Bird, Daniel Tiger, and ``Sesame  Street.'' That is what we are doing by going after public broadcasting  in the United States of America.

``Sesame Street'' has a letter of the day. I believe the letter of  the day today is C. How appropriate because this Republican bill is  cruel, and it cuts children's programming all across the country.

How can this be that Republicans' priority right now does nothing on  the economy, nothing to make life more affordable, and nothing to  address the high cost of living? Instead, Republicans are attacking  Elmo, ``Sesame Street,'' Big Bird, and Daniel Tiger. Republicans'  priorities are all wrong.

This is on top of a GOP tax scam, Mr. Speaker, where Republicans are  trying to visit on the American people the largest cuts to healthcare  in American history, targeting Medicaid, Medicare, the Affordable Care  Act, the Children's Health Insurance Program, and women's health by  trying to defund Planned Parenthood. That is what Republicans in this  Congress are trying to do through the GOP tax scam, this disgusting  abomination, the one big, ugly bill.

My Republican colleagues are going after school lunch programs for  children, supplemental nutrition assistance for children, and now  children's programming.

That doesn't suggest to me that my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle are actually trying to strengthen families. This legislation  would weaken families. It would weaken our ability to lead throughout  the free world and weaken public health and safety for everyday  Americans and people all across this country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote.

Also, I am hopeful that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  will at some point actually decide to focus on the issues that matter,  to lift children up, not target them; to lift families up, not target  them; to lift older Americans up, not target them; to lift veterans up,  not target them; and to lift healthcare for everyday Americans up, not  target them. That is what House Democrats will continue to do on behalf  of the American people. It is high time that our Republican colleagues  join us.

Vote ``no'' against this reckless Republican rescissions package.