Solving Problems for the American People


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688227/solving-problems-for-the-american-people


Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address one issue of  concern to the American people and then an incredibly important issue  related to the district that I am privileged to represent back home in  Brooklyn.

The American people elected us to solve problems on their behalf and  to address the issues that matter, like the high cost of living, to  lower housing costs, to lower grocery costs, to lower childcare costs,  to lower insurance costs, and lower utility costs. America is too  expensive.

We need to build an affordable economy for hardworking American  taxpayers at home in Brooklyn and all across America. That is what we  were elected to do, to solve problems, not to make things worse.

The Republicans have decided to proceed with a budget resolution that  sets in motion the largest cut to Medicaid in American history up to,  if not beyond, $880 billion in Medicaid cuts. Children will be  devastated, families will be devastated, everyday Americans with  disabilities will be devastated, seniors will be devastated, hospitals  will be devastated, and nursing homes will be devastated.

Democrats are going to stand on the side of the American people, and  that is why each and every Democrat opposed these out-of-control,  harmful, potential cuts to Medicaid that were part of the Republican  budget resolution.

We will continue to stand on the side of the American people to solve  problems for hardworking American taxpayers to make life more  affordable and to ensure that in America, Mr. Speaker, when you work  hard and play by the rules, you should be able to provide a comfortable  living for yourself and for your family. You should be able to educate  your children, purchase a home, one day retire with grace and dignity,  go on vacation every now and then, and, of course, have access to high- quality affordable healthcare, not to take healthcare away from the  American people.                       Congratulating Mo Better Jaguars

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the 2024 Pop Warner  Football National Champions for 9 and under, and to welcome them to the  House Chamber. The Mo Better Jaguars straight out of Brownsville,  ``Never Ran, Never Will.''

Throughout the season, the Mo Better Jaguars team displayed  incredible skill, resilience, courage, intellect, and determination on  the field and off.

In a year when our local NFL teams went a combined 8-26--it is rough  to be a Jets and Giants fan at this moment--the Jaguars did their thing  and put together a remarkable 12-0 undefeated season, not giving up a  single touchdown before the Super Bowl.

During their championship run, people from all walks of life,  including the owner of the iconic Junior's Restaurant came together to  support the Jaguars to make sure they could travel to Florida,  participate in the Pop Warner Super Bowl, and bring the trophy home to  Brooklyn.

What a show they put on. Running back Ron Rollock made the play of  the game with an incredible one-handed catch on fourth down to seal the  victory for the Jaguars.

It was an incredible team effort.

I thank the dedicated coaches, loving parents and families, and the  entire Brooklyn community for supporting these amazing young men.

I welcome the Jaguars to the House Chamber and congratulate the Mo  Better Jaguars on their Super Bowl victory.