Facility for Runway Operations and Safe Transportation Act


Mr. BARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3423) to amend title 49, United States Code, to include  aircraft deicing storage facilities in the definition of airport  development, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3423

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Facility for Runway       Operations and Safe Transportation Act'' or the ``FROST       Act''.       SEC. 2. DEICING EQUIPMENT PROTECTION.

Section 47102(3)(B)(v) of title 49, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``and storage facilities for the       equipment and fluids''.

Mr. BARRETT.  3423, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in support of H.R. 3423, the Facility  for Runway Operations and Safe Transportation Act, which will allow  storage facilities for aircraft deicing fluids and equipment to be  acquired through the Airport Improvement Program, AIP, funds.

Under the current structure, AIP funds can be used to acquire  aircraft deicing equipment, and when it comes to the storage facilities  that house that very same equipment, airports are forced to utilize  alternative and less reliable funding mechanisms. If you can use AIP  funds to purchase the equipment, you should be able to use those same  funding mechanisms to acquire the necessary facilities to house and  protect the equipment.

I thank Mr. Wied for his leadership on this commonsense piece of  legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, aircraft deicing equipment is critical, as we all know,  for ensuring safe aircraft operations and the ability to maintain  aircraft performance during colder months and during inclement  circumstances.

The Airport Improvement Program was established to fund essential  airport infrastructure projects that enhance safety and mitigate issues  that cold weather can bring.

H.R. 3423 is simple yet effective. It ensures storage facilities for  aircraft deicing fluids and equipment can be acquired with the Airport  Improvement Program funds.

I took a tour of an airport in my district not long ago, and this  very issue came up as a frustration they were facing. As such, I am  proud to support this commonsense piece of legislation, and I urge  support of this bill.