Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions Review Act


Mr. BARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3428) to require the Comptroller General of the United  States to conduct a review of the Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions,  and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3428

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Mid-Atlantic River Basin       Commissions Review Act''.       SEC. 2. MID-ATLANTIC RIVER BASIN COMMISSIONS.

(a) GAO Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall initiate a review of the Mid-Atlantic River       Basin Commissions.

(2) Requirements.--In conducting the review under paragraph       (1), the Comptroller General shall--

(A) review the ethics policies and practices of each Mid-      Atlantic River Basin Commission;

(B) review the practices each Mid-Atlantic River Basin       Commission uses to communicate with the general public;

(C) review current Federal responsibilities at each Mid-      Atlantic River Basin Commission, including the types of       actions taken by relevant Federal agencies in carrying out       such responsibilities;

(D) describe the level and sources of Federal and State       funding received by each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission;

(E) identify duties and responsibilities of each Mid-      Atlantic River Basin Commission that may be duplicative of,       or overlap with, other Federal authorities; and

(F) review policies and best practices of each Mid-Atlantic       River Basin Commission for reporting activities of the       Commission.

(3) Report.--Upon completion of the review conducted under       paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and       Public Works of the Senate a report containing--

(A) the findings of such review; and

(B) any recommendations, including any recommendations for       statutory or administrative changes or changes to ethics       policies and practices, to increase the transparency or       congressional oversight of the Mid-Atlantic River Basin       Commissions.

(b) Plan for Compliance.--Not later than 90 days after the       Comptroller General submits the report required under       subsection (a)(3), and annually thereafter for five years,       each Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission shall submit to the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and       Public Works of the Senate a plan detailing actions such       Commission has taken to comply with the recommendations       contained in such report.

(c) Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission Defined.--In this       section, the term ``Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commission''       means--

(1) the Susquehanna River Basin Commission created by the       Susquehanna River Basin Compact to which consent was given by       Public Law 91-575 (84 Stat. 1509);

(2) the Delaware River Basin Commission created by the       Delaware River Basin Compact to which consent was given by       Public Law 87-328 (75 Stat. 688); and

(3) the Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin       created by the Potomac River Basin Compact to which consent       was given by Public Law 91-407 (84 Stat. 856).

Mr. BARRETT.  3428.

Mr. Speaker, I commend my colleague, the gentleman from Pennsylvania  (Mr. Bresnahan), for his hard work on this bill.

Mr. Speaker, the Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions, for the  Susquehanna, Delaware, and Potomac Rivers, came into existence before  the creation of the EPA and mandated Federal involvement in the  commissions.

H.R. 3428 is a good government bill that directs the GAO to review  the ethics, practices, funding, and Federal responsibilities of the  commissions.

Congress has a duty to conduct oversight of these commissions, and I  thank Mr. Bresnahan for ensuring that we fulfill that role.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3428, the Mid-Atlantic River Basin Commissions  Review Act, is legislation that will ensure important rivers in our  communities have proper oversight and utilize taxpayer resources to  carry out their missions responsibly.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill and yield back the balance  of my time.