Transitioning Retiring and New Service Members to Port Ocean Rail and Truck Jobs Act


Mr. BARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3055) to direct the Secretary of Transportation to develop  an action plan on members of the Armed Forces eligible for  preseparation counseling and veterans becoming supply chain employees,  and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3055

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Transitioning Retiring And       New Service Members to Port Ocean Rail and Truck Jobs Act''       or the ``TRANSPORT Jobs Act''.       SEC. 2. VETERAN TO SUPPLY CHAIN EMPLOYEE ACTION PLAN.

(a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation, in       consultation with the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of       Veterans Affairs, and Secretary of Labor, shall develop and       make public an action plan to be known as the ``Veteran to       Supply Chain Employee Action Plan''.

(b) Contents.--In developing the Veteran to Supply Chain       Action Plan, the Secretary of Transportation shall--

(1) identify--

(A) barriers members of the Armed Forces eligible for       preseparation counseling under section 1142 of title 10,       United States Code, and veterans face when searching for       employment, during the hiring process, or in training to       become supply chain employees;

(B) challenges supply chain employers face when recruiting,       hiring, or retaining members of the Armed Forces eligible for       preseparation counseling under section 1142 of title 10,       United States Code, and veterans;

(C) regulatory burdens employers face in the hiring of       supply chain employees, especially for employees that are       members of the Armed Forces eligible for preseparation       counseling under section 1142 of title 10, United States       Code, or veterans;

(D) regions of the United States which have the greatest       workforce need for supply chain employees; and

(E) barriers and industry trends that directly or       indirectly discourage members of the Armed Forces eligible       for preseparation counseling under section 1142 of title 10,       United States Code, and veterans from pursuing, attaining,       and remaining in supply chain careers;

(2) highlight--

(A) the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities members       of the Armed Forces eligible for preseparation counseling       under section 1142 of title 10, United States Code, and       veterans possess that are critical for supply chain careers       and any competency gaps that should be addressed;

(B) opportunities to expand or enhance existing initiatives       for members of the Armed Forces eligible for preseparation       counseling under section 1142 of title 10, United States       Code, or veterans to become supply chain employees; and

(C) ways to improve supply chain employer outreach programs       and enhance existing training, mentorship, education, and       advancement programs that would increase the participation       and engagement of members of the Armed Forces eligible for       preseparation counseling under section 1142 of title 10,       United States Code, and veterans in the supply chain       workforce;

(3) recommend specific short- and long-term actions the       Department of Transportation, the Department of Defense, the       Department of Veterans Affairs, or the Department of Labor       can take to help members of the Armed Forces eligible for       preseparation counseling under section 1142 of title 10,       United States Code, and veterans become supply chain       employees; and

(4) consult with the transportation supply chain industry,       modal transportation supply chain employers, and       organizations representing modal transportation supply chain       employees.

(c) Supply Chain Employee Defined.--In this section, the       term ``supply chain employee'' means an individual directly       employed in the facilitation of the movement of goods.

Mr. BARRETT.  3055, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support my bill, H.R. 3055, the TRANSPORT  Jobs Act.

This bill was introduced to address common barriers that veterans and  members of the Armed Forces often face when transitioning to civilian  occupations.

The bill requires the creation of a veteran to supply chain employee  action plan, which will identify and match the skills, knowledge, and  abilities of veterans and members of the Armed Forces with supply chain  jobs.

We have all seen issues within the supply chain of unfilled jobs that  are critical for the delivery of the ever-important goods and services  moving throughout our economy and veterans who move home after their  service looking for employment opportunities.

The Secretary of Transportation will develop the action plan in  consultation with the Secretaries of Defense, Veterans Affairs, and  Labor.

This bill provides veterans and those soon-to-be-discharged from the  armed services with the support that they deserve and addresses the  continued labor shortages in our Nation's critical supply chains.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.                                           House of Representatives,                                   Committee on Veterans Affairs,                                  Washington, DC, September 3, 2025.      Hon. Sam Graves,      Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,           Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Graves: I am writing to you concerning H.R       3055, the ``Transitioning Retiring and New Service Members to       Port Ocean Rail and Truck Jobs Act'' or the ``TRANSPORT Jobs       Act.'' As you know, there are provisions in this legislation       that fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee on       Veterans' Affairs.

In the interest of permitting your committee to proceed       expeditiously to floor consideration of this legislation, I       am willing to waive consideration of the bill by my       Committee. I do so with the understanding that by waiving       consideration of the bill, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs       does not waive any future jurisdictional claim over the       subject matters contained in the bill. I also request that       you urge the Speaker to name members of this committee to any       conference committee that may be established to consider such       provisions.

Please place this letter in the committee report on H.R.       3055 and in the Congressional Record during consideration of       this legislation on the House floor.            Sincerely,                                                         Mike Bost,                                                          Chairman.                                          ____                                          House of Representatives,                                      Committee on Transportation                                             and Infrastructure,                                  Washington, DC, September 4, 2025.      Hon. Mike Bost,      Chairman, Committee on Veterans' Affairs,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Bost: I write regarding H.R. 3055, the       Transitioning Retiring And New Service Members to Port Ocean       Rail and Truck Jobs Act or the TRANSPORT Jobs Act. The       legislation was primarily referred to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure, with additional referrals       to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on       Veterans' Affairs.

Thank you for agreeing to waive consideration of the bill       at the Committee of Veterans' Affairs, to allow it to proceed       expeditiously to floor consideration. I agree that by waiving       consideration, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained in       this legislation. Further, I am pleased to support your       request to name members of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs       to any conference committee that may be established to       consider such provisions.

I will place a copy of this letter exchange in the       Committee bill report for H.R. 3055, as well as enter them       into the Congressional Record during consideration of this       legislation on the House floor.            Sincerely,                                                        Sam Graves,      Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                     Committee on Armed Services,                                   Washington DC, September 8, 2025.      Hon. Sam Graves,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Graves: I write concerning H.R. 3055, the       TRANSPORT Jobs Act. As a result of your having consulted with       us on provisions within H.R. 3055 that fall within the Rule X       jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services, I agree to       forego any further consideration of this resolution so that       it may proceed expeditiously to the House floor for       consideration.

The Committee on Armed Services takes this action with our       mutual understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R.       3055 at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction over       subject matter contained in this or similar legislation and       that our committee will be appropriately consulted and       involved as this resolution or similar legislation moves       forward so that we may address any remaining issues in our       jurisdiction. This legislation contains provisions that may       require further modification prior to final consideration to       ensure the support of the House Committee on Armed Services.

Finally, I ask that a copy of our exchange of letters on       this matter be included by House Committee on Transportation       and Infrastructure in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration, to memorialize our understanding. Thank you       for the cooperative spirit in which you have worked regarding       this matter and others between our respective committees.            Sincerely,                                                 Michael D. Rogers,      Chairman, House Committee on Armed Services.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                  Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,                                  Washington, DC, Septmeber 8, 2025.      Hon. Michael D. Rogers,      Chairman, House Committee on Armed Services, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Rogers: Thank you for your correspondence       regarding H.R. 3055, the TRANSPORT Jobs Act, and for your       Committee's willingness to forego formal consideration of the       legislation in order to allow it to proceed to the House       floor in a timely manner.

I appreciate your recognition that the Committee on Armed       Services does not waive any future jurisdiction over subject       matter contained in this or similar legislation. I also fully       affirm our mutual understanding that your Committee will       continue to be consulted and appropriately involved as this       legislation advances through the legislative process,       particularly with respect to provisions falling within the       jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services.

As requested, I will ensure that a copy of our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of H.R. 3055, to reflect our understanding and       ongoing collaboration. I am grateful for the cooperative       working relationship between our committees and look forward       to continuing our productive engagement on this and other       matters of shared interest.            Sincerely,                                                        Sam Graves,          Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Ms. Scholten, for introducing this  legislation with me in support of our Nation's servicemen and -women.

I was glad the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure  favorably reported this measure and look forward to the House passing  this legislation.

H.R. 3055 is one small step that we can take to ensure we provide our  servicemembers with the resources they need as they transition back to  the civilian workforce, many of whom have never worked in the civilian  workforce before joining the military.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.