Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, thank you for the recognition. 

  Let me begin today by commending the efforts of Senators Murkowski  and Manchin for working across the aisle to bring an energy bill to the  floor. 

  This bill has positive initiatives--promoting energy efficiency,  modernizing the electric grid, and research funding for clean energy-- but the full Senate deserves a chance to be heard on the important  issues at stake with this bill; namely, energy. 

  Most importantly, we must take real action on climate change and  address a problematic provision in this bill to limit environmental  reviews of massive and potentially toxic mining projects. 

  Everywhere we look, we are experiencing the devastating effects of  climate change--whether they are hurricanes along the southeastern  coasts, flooding in the Midwest, drought in the Southwest, or out-of- control wildfires in California--and we are careening too close to  climate change tipping points that scientists warn will doom the  planet. 

  The bill before us does not set targets to reduce greenhouse gas  emissions to the levels required to meet global targets or transition  us to a clean energy economy, which is where we need to head, and we  need to be heading there fast. A few things would dramatically improve  this bill's climate impact. 

  First, we need to add clean energy tax incentives. Clean energy tax  incentives are one of the most effective tools we have in our toolbox  to increase renewable power sources like wind and solar and the energy  storage technology that enables them to work as a baseload power. 

  Second, we should put commonsense limits on one of the worst  greenhouse gases--methane. The U.S. oil and gas boom means that we are  emitting 13 million metric tons of methane every year. That is 60  percent more than EPA estimates. Methane is 84 times more powerful than  CO2 as a greenhouse gas in the short term. 

  Industry says they want to control methane pollution. They were  prepared to live with limits on public lands in a 2016 rule from the  Bureau of Land Management. In 2017, the Senate rejected an attempt to  repeal that rule on a bipartisan basis. But the Trump administration  eliminated the rule due to lobbying by the worst polluters in the  industry. We should restore that rule, and I have filed an amendment to  do so immediately. 

  We should also act to phase out HFCs and include a strong energy  efficiency program for buildings. Then this bill could make a small but  meaningful contribution to the climate change fight. 

  Within the confines of this bill, there is a problematic and anti- environmental section that deserves serious scrutiny. I am talking  about the controversial American Mineral Security Act--a bill that saw  significant opposition in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources  Committee. Including this bill in this package is problematic because  it would ``streamline'' the Federal permitting process for hard rock  mining. Streamlining the approval process means arbitrary deadlines and  reducing public input on massive mining projects that could cause  further environmental destruction on public lands. 

  Mining is a messy business. Surface mining ravages the earth. Heap  leach mining produces what is called acid mine drainage that spews a  mix of acidic water and heavy metals into streams and contaminates  groundwater. An astounding 40 percent of western headwaters are  contaminated by mine runoff. Those headwaters are where we get our  drinking water. 

  There are two controversial mine proposals in New Mexico right now-- the Terrero Mine in the Pecos and the Copper Flat Mine near Hillsboro,  NM. Both of these mines are of significant concern to local farmers,  ranchers, Tribes, and residents who are worried about water pollution. 

  Under this provision, almost anything could be labeled a ``critical  mineral.'' Mining permits will get pushed through, while limiting local  community input. I am strongly supporting an amendment from Senator  Stabenow to strike this provision. 

  The proponents of this critical minerals bill have some valid points.  Of course we need certain metals for our  economy, including a clean energy economy, but we cannot forget that  the mining industry has gotten one of the biggest free rides on the  back of the taxpayer in American history, all the while leaving the  taxpayer holding the bag for their toxic legacy. 

  Hard rock mining on Federal lands is governed by the General Mining  Act of 1872--that is right, 1872--a 148-year-old law. President Ulysses  S. Grant signed it to help settle the West and to spur economic  development. Still in effect today, the act allows mining companies to  mine gold, silver, copper, uranium, and other precious metals on  Federal lands without paying one dime in royalties--not one dime. That  is in sharp contrast to coal and oil and gas companies that pay  billions in royalties every year for the right to extract resources-- resources owned by the public and which are coming off public  lands. The current rate paid by coal, oil, and gas is 12.5 percent.  These same mining companies often pay royalties of similar payments  when they operate overseas but not here in the United States.  

  Since 1872, mining companies have taken $300 billion--that is billion  with a ``b''--from public lands. The U.S. Government Accountability  Office estimated that in 2010 alone hardrock mining earned $6.4 billion  from public lands. That would have yielded $800 million per year for  the American taxpayer if mining were treated the same as coal, oil, and  gas. 

  The shocking fact is, foreign-owned companies are often the  beneficiaries. For example, 83 percent of the companies that mine or  explore for uranium in the United States are foreign owned; 64 percent  of the companies that produce gold are foreign owned. 

  The out-of-date mining law not only shortchanges taxpayers; it  shortchanges the environment. The same industry that seeks permitting  relief from Congress today does nothing to pay for cleanup at the tens  of thousands of abandoned mines scarring our public lands. The GAO  estimates that there are 33,000 abandoned mines across the West that  are degrading the environment. One study found that 20,000 gallons per  day of toxic water from 43 abandoned mine sites are polluting streams,  ponds, and groundwater. 

  What is wrong with these numbers? The American taxpayer is stuck with  the bill, and the local and regional communities are stuck with the  devastating environmental and public health impacts. 

  Now, witness this: the Gold King Mine that gushed 3 million gallons-- 3 million gallons--of this toxic yellow stew into the Animas and San  Juan Rivers and across my home State of New Mexico, Colorado, Utah,  Arizona, and the Navajo Nation. It has been 4 years since this spill,  and the States, Tribes, and local communities have still not been fully  reimbursed. This was a normal river in the West that looked clean and  pristine. Here it is, this toxic stew--this yellowish, toxic stew--that  ran for a number of days. 

  The right to mine on Federal lands royalty-free maybe made sense 150  years ago. A free ride makes no sense now. It is a sweetheart deal for  the mining companies that can't be justified by today's fiscal or  environmental realities. The old joke in the West is that the mining  company gets the gold, and the American people get the shaft--and that  is literally true. 

  My amendment to reform the 1872 mining law that Senators Heinrich and  Bennet are cosponsoring ends this free ride by doing two simple things:  It sets a royalty rate between 5 and 8 percent on mining on Federal  lands, the public lands, and provides for cleanup of abandoned mines  paid for by royalties and an abandoned mine reclamation fee of 1 to 3  percent. 

  The House Committee on Natural Resources approved broad mining reform  legislation last year. This bill could be coming to the House floor  soon and is probably headed in our direction over here at the Senate.  Mining reform is decades and decades overdue. It is only fair to  address this injustice before we give mining companies new perks, even  if they can be justified, and enacting a royalty and reclamation fee is  a healthy start on that process. 

  I thank, again, Senators Murkowski and Manchin for their work. I hope  we can return to the regular order, to the idea that we are going to  have a bill on the floor and that we can have amendments and have the  process work as it normally does and improve the bill on these  important points. If we cannot, I think the path for this bill becomes  much harder. 

  Now, on another subject before I conclude, I want to voice my support  for the remarks Senator Grassley gave earlier today on the oil and gas  royalties. We filed an amendment together, based on our bill, to update  those royalties and other leasing items for the first time in 100  years. It is a long overdue topic, and I hope to see increasing  bipartisan support in the near future. 

  We have a historic oil boom in this country, much of which is using  public lands, and the public has a right to see a fair value for those  resources. 

  We also have a large and growing budget deficit and a major climate  change problem. Bringing oil and gas royalties into the 21st century  would be a bipartisan win on all of those fronts. 

   I see my good friend, the Senator from Tennessee,  is here. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT