CNN "Erin Burnett Outfront" - Transcript: Sen. Tom Udall (D-NM) Reacts To Iranian General's Death


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

BURNETT: All right, Barbara, thank you. And I want to go now to Democratic senator from New Mexico, Tom Udall. He is on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and was one of the authors of a bipartisan amendment to prevent an unauthorized war with Iran. And I appreciate your time.

Senator, let me let me ask you here.

SEN. TOM UDALL (D-NM): Thank you, Erin.

BURNETT: The President said moments ago that Soleimani was planning a very major attack on the United States. Pompeo classifies it as imminent.

Iran's top official in the United States rejected that and says that's absolutely untrue. He says the strike was planned for quite some time.

Do you know was there an imminent attack? Was it very major? Is all of that what you understand from briefings? UDALL: I don't believe there was an imminent attack based on what I'd

been briefed on today. My staff was briefed by a number of people representing a variety of the agencies in the United States government and they came away with no feeling that there was evidence of an imminent attack.

[19:20:12]

UDALL: If there is, we should disclose it, and the President should disclose it publicly, so that we know what's going on. I'm very suspicious here.

BURNETT: Wow. It's important that you say that because they've been obviously, you know, quite loud about that and quite categorical about it. The Iranian Ambassador --

UDALL: Well, they're going come to the Hill, I hope and let us know what the evidence is, if not disclose it.

BURNETT: So when the Iranian Ambassador Rivanchi tells me that he considers this strike an act of war. Do you consider the killing of Iran's top general, the second most powerful person in their entire country an act of war?

UDALL: Well, I think if you looked at it with the shoe on the other foot, let's say for example, we had our Secretary of Defense in the country in the Middle East, and the Iranians assassinated our Secretary of Defense, I think we would consider that an act of war. And I think we would declare it as a serious national security threat and we would take very, very strong action.

So I think we're in an area that the War Powers Act calls for hostilities, I believe we should bring a War Powers Resolution to the floor of the Senate. It's privileged and so we can get a vote.

As you know, Senator McConnell hasn't let us have very many votes, but I think that's what we ought to be doing, and I would urge all of our presidential candidates to speak up and say that the AUMFs that might be used here do not apply and that we need to have a vote on whether or not we should get into a war in this case --

BURNETT: You mean, the authorization for the President to use for by saying Soleimani was a terrorist, is that what you're referring to?

UDALL: Yes. I think the war with Iran is a matter for Congress, not the President. So that's why he is pulling this imminent. He is trying to say imminent, because he is making it sound like it goes around what the law is where there's been no proof of that. There's been no evidence at this point.

If they want to get into war with Iran, they should disclose why to the American public.

BURNETT: So the Iranian Ambassador describes this as a military war that Trump is starting and then was very explicit that a military action would be met with a military action. He was not clear, though as to whether that would involve proxies or

where or anything like that. But what do you think that means? They are very clear that they are going to respond militarily.

UDALL: Well, I don't have any doubt that this is going to be an escalation. I think this has been going on for months. They do something, we do something. By now taking out this key general, we are escalating this to the very point of war and we should expect some very terrible consequences.

I don't want to see it happen, but I think that's the position that the President has gotten us into, very, very perilous ground that we're on.

BURNETT: I want to play something for you that Donald Trump said and he was then just Donald Trump, the business person about President Obama. This is in November of 2011.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Our President will start a war with Iran because he has absolutely no ability to negotiate. I believe that he will attack Iran sometime prior to the election because he thinks that's the only way he can get elected. Isn't it pathetic?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BURNETT: Some Democrats are now accusing President Trump of doing what he said Obama would do. But yet senator, every Democrat has begun their statement by saying Soleimani did a lot of terrible things, and they are glad that he is dead.

So is it fair to say -- even though it's unbelievable to have that soundbite -- is it fair to say that Trump is doing this just to distract from impeachment or to win an election?

UDALL: I think it's very hard to question the actual motivation, and that's why I believe the President of the United States should come forward, lay out the evidence and tell us specifically why he has done what he has done here.

And I think he has really pushed us to the point where the Iranians with this maximum pressure campaign with us violating the JCPOA and saying that we're going to force Iran into a corner.

We've given them no choice, but to carry out some very terrible things and I am very fearful that this is not going to have a good end.

BURNETT: Senator, I appreciate your time. Thank you very much.

UDALL: Thank you. Thank you very much, Erin. Appreciate your coverage.

BURNETT: Senator Tom Udall. And next, cities across the nation on high alert tonight. Are Americans in danger because of the President's strike? The former Director of National Intelligence Jim Clapper and the

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT