Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I begin by saying that my prayers are with  our Armed Forces and their families. They stand watch despite the  threat of danger, and they rely on their leaders to make wise  decisions. I am grateful that there were no casualties during last  night's missile attack. 

  For well over a year, I have been sounding the alarm that this  President could bring us to war with Iran through mistake, misjudgment,  or miscalculation. I have urged this body to assert our constitutional  authority and pass our bipartisan bill to prevent a war with Iran. 

  In 2018 and 2019, I introduced the Prevention of Unconstitutional War  with Iran Act. In June of last year, my amendment to prevent  unauthorized war earned bipartisan majority support in the Senate, and  it passed in the House of Representatives. It may not have become law,  but the Constitution has not changed. Now, on the brink of war with  Iran, it is long past time for Congress to step up to its  constitutional responsibilities and stop the march to an unauthorized  war. 

  Americans oppose another war in the Middle East. Despite the  President's claim to the contrary, war with Iran would certainly not  ``go very quickly.'' That is what the President has said--``go very  quickly.'' Any war with Iran would be prolonged, bloody, and costly.  Yet, even if you support a war with Iran, we all swore an oath to  uphold the Constitution, and Congress--and Congress alone--has the  authority, under article I of the Constitution, to declare war. 

  Any country would consider the President's strike on one of Iran's  highest ranking military commanders--someone whom many consider to be  the second most powerful person in Iran's Government--to be an act of  war. Now, predictably, Iran has  responded. So Congress must no longer hide from its constitutional  responsibility. 

  If Congress does not stop the military conflict with Iran, this  President will continue to take a wrecking ball through the Middle  East, making one impulsive decision after another while having no long- term plan or strategic goal in sight. The President's speech made it  clear he has no strategy to defuse the situation or to achieve a  diplomatic result. He will continue the provocative warpath we are on. 

  While we may now be in a period of relative calm, the position we are  in is untenable, and it is because the President abandoned diplomacy  and created this crisis. The administration did not consult Congress  before carrying out the strike, which is something that, typically, an  administration would do before carrying out a strike like this; it  would have a true consultation with the top leaders in the Congress.  The administration did not consult our allies or try to form a  coalition around what is clearly a highly provocative action that has  ramifications for international security. 

  This is kind of a reminder of the run-up to Iraq. What did that look  like, the run-up to the Iraq war? Sketchy evidence, bad intelligence,  outright misrepresentations, and a call for vengeance against Saddam  Hussein are what got us into the war in Iraq. This is where we are  today in our conflict with Iran. The administration's vague assertions  of an imminent threat, without its having concrete evidence, and its  ever-changing story are too reminiscent of the origins of the war in  Iraq. The echoes of Iraq are chilling. 

  Congress, step up. Do your constitutional duty. Rein in this reckless  course we are on. 

  Let me say this, not just to those of us in this body who are  speaking up but also to the thousands across the country who are  marching against a rush to war: To speak out against a war with Iran is  a patriotic activity, a patriotic duty. It is the right action to take,  and it is the right thing to do. We are speaking up to stop this Nation  from repeating the grave mistakes of the Iraq war. We are speaking up  because we love this country, because we do not want to see another  military family mourn a loved one who loses his life in a war that does  not need to be fought and that we have the power to stop and to avoid. 

  President Trump set this disastrous course in motion in May of 2018  when he unilaterally withdrew from the Iran nuclear agreement. This was  a deal the international community stood firmly behind. It reminded  everyone--European countries, Russia, and China--that we were all a  part of this deal. That agreement took the single greatest threat to  the U.S. and international security--that being Iran--off the table. It  prevented Iran from developing nuclear weapons. According to the  International Atomic Energy Agency and President Trump's military and  national security experts, Iran was complying with the agreement when  the President withdrew. 

  The nuclear agreement did not solve all of the problems with Iran,  but it is clear that the diplomatic effort reduced tensions with a  longstanding adversary and reduced the threat of hostilities. Yet,  instead of working to build on this progress, the President  precipitously withdrew from the agreement and began his maximum  pressure campaign to force Iran to capitulate to a long list of  impossible demands. The President promised he would get us a ``better  deal.'' That is what he said--get us a ``better deal.'' He has not.  There is no better deal in sight. 

  I call on the President and his administration to use all of their  diplomatic tools to deescalate this threatening situation--a situation  that risks American lives. I call on them to work with our allies to  find a path back to the nuclear limits the international community  agreed to, to develop channels for productive communication and  diplomacy, and to work toward stabilizing an unstable Middle East. 

  Leader McConnell and the Republican leadership must bring this debate  to the Senate floor. Senator Kaine's recently filed War Powers  Resolution is one step in that direction. Senator Paul and I have  called upon all Senators to support our Prevention of Unconstitutional  War with Iran Act. We must keep up this fight and block funds for any  war with Iran in the absence of congressional authorization, and we  must repeal the outdated authorizations of force that are being  abused--the one from 2001 and the one from 2002. 

  I strongly support our oath to defend our Nation and the Constitution  from any enemies, foreign and domestic, including against a President  who would take us to war without his having constitutional authority.  If we do not act now to preserve our constitutional structure and to  assert our constitutional authority, we fail the men and women in  uniform whose lives we put at risk; we fail our oath to defend and  protect the Constitution; and we fail the American people, who sent us  here to represent them on the most consequential decision our country  can make. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT