Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I come before this body ith a deep sadness  that this institution has failed the Constitution and failed the  American people. 

  We have reached a low point in our history. We have failed to hold a  fair and honest impeachment trial, and we are nearing a vote wherein we  will fail to hold the President accountable for his abuse of power and  a coverup. Thanks to the Senate's Republican majority, this body is  complicit in that coverup in its refusing to call witnesses and obtain  documents to get the full truth. How can we turn a blind eye to the  truth as we cast one of the most important votes we will ever take? 

  Yes, we are approaching a sad day for this body and for this country,  but to those across the country who feel profoundly angry and saddened  by this miscarriage of justice, my message is this: Do not give up. Do  not stop fighting to save our democracy because America is worth the  fight. America is worth the fight. 

  Make no mistake--try as they might to cover it up, the full truth  will come out. And the facts that have already been revealed are  damning. 

  The President's handpicked Ambassador, Gordon Sondland, testified,  ``Everyone was in the loop.'' The more we find out, the more revealing  his testimony becomes. 

  Not only is the President implicated, so is the Vice President and  the Secretary of State and the Attorney General and the President's  acting Chief of Staff and his former Energy Secretary and even the  White House Counsel, the lead lawyer in this very proceeding. 

  This is a pandora's box the Republican Party is fighting to keep  shut, but it will not stay shut. The President's misdeeds and his wide  circle of accomplices will go down as one of the ugliest episodes in  American history. 

  Even now, the evidence gathered by the House--that the President  abused his office and taxpayer funds for personal gain--is staggering.  Ambassador Sondland didn't sugarcoat the truth. ``Was there a quid pro  quo? The answer is yes.'' That was his quote. Using official power for  personal gain--that is the very essence of abuse of power, and that is  precisely what this President did. That is hardly even in dispute. The  evidence is overwhelming. 

  The President first withheld a coveted meeting until the Ukrainian  President would announce investigations into the Bidens and the  debunked conspiracy theory that Ukraine, not Russia, interfered in our  2016 election. The President next withheld congressionally appropriated  military aid illegally to try to force the Ukrainian President into  making the announcement of the investigations. 

  The independent Government Accountability Office confirmed that the  President acted illegally. 

  The President threatened our national security, the security of an  ally, and the integrity of our next Presidential election. How much  more could be at stake? 

  Ukrainian officials began asking about the aid only hours after the  President's now-infamous July 25 call with President Zelensky. That is  according to Laura Cooper, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense  for Russia, Ukraine, and Eurasia. A former Deputy Foreign Minister in  Ukraine reports Ukraine knew of the freeze in July, and the whole world  knew once the story broke the news on August 28. 

  Fortunately, the President got caught and was forced to release the  aid. He got caught red-handed and immediately commenced a scorched- earth blockade in Congress and the courts to cover up his grave  misdeeds. 

  Again, the facts are not in dispute. 

  So knowing that these are some of the most serious and solemn words I  will ever say or utter on this floor, I will vote to convict the  President on both Articles of Impeachment. He is guilty by any  standard. If he is allowed to act with impunity, he will be a  continuing threat to the sanctity of our democracy. He is patently  unfit to hold the highest office in our land. 

  While the Senate may vote to acquit him, he will not be exonerated-- not by this sham trial. While the Senate may vote to acquit the  President, history will not. 

  Now, Senators on the other side of the aisle are publicly and not so  publicly admitting that they believe the President is guilty, that the  House managers proved their case. But these same Senators did not vote  to hear witnesses and get documents. They will fail to hold the  President accountable for the wrongdoing they now say he is guilty of. 

  This is one of the worst abuses of Presidential power in our Nation's  history. This is as bad as or worse than President Nixon's. Nixon tried  to corrupt the 1972 election and cover it up, but he didn't try to  extort an ally or invite foreign interference into our election. 

  At that time, members of his party with courage refused to turn a  blind eye. The Republican Party of today bears no resemblance to the  party of Howard Baker, who insisted on getting to the truth. Howard  asked: What did the President know and when did he know it? It bears no  resemblance to the party of Barry Goldwater, John Rhodes, and Hugh  Scott, who went to Nixon to tell him the Republican Party could no  longer protect him from impeachment and removal. 

  I am grateful to the honorable officials who had the courage to act  this time around, who defied the President's order not to come  forward--Ambassador Yovanovitch, Lieutenant Colonel Vindman, Ambassador  Taylor, Mr. Kent, and the others. They risked their careers and even  their personal safety. We should at least--at least--show the same  courage because the consequences of failing to hold this President to  account could not be graver. 

  The guardrails have been taken off. The President invited Russian  interference in the 2016 election and invited Chinese interference in  the upcoming 2020 election. He said on national television he would  probably take foreign interference again. He is unapologetic and  unrepentant. What is he going to do next once the Senate Republicans  let him get away with this abuse, once we show that we are no longer a  coequal branch? 

  We have never ceded so much power to the Executive. You can rest  assured that this President of all Presidents will use that power and  abuse it. Take  his word for it. He said, ``Article II allows me to do whatever I  want.'' Pulitzer Prize-winning Presidential historian Jon Meacham said  the President is now, and this is his quote, ``functionally a  monarch.'' That is stunning. 

  Again, these are sad days for our Nation, but as I said at the  outset, we cannot and will not concede our democracy. We cannot and  will not concede the values and principles that make this Nation  strong. We must restore the balance of power in our government. We must  restore accountability. Most importantly, we must start doing the work  the American people sent us here to do. Our institutions are not  representing what the American people want. Senate Republicans' refusal  to hold a fair impeachment trial, which is what 75 percent of the  American people wanted, is just the latest example. 

  While the Senate and the Constitution took a terrible battering the  last 2 weeks, I am even more committed to breathing life into our  shared principles of representative government. I am going to continue  the fight to take obscene amounts of secret money out of our elections,  to make it easier to vote, and to bring power back to the American  people and not hand it over to an imperial Presidency. 

  The Senate will have future opportunities to restore our  constitutional system. The only question is whether Senators will rise  to the occasion. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT