Letter to the Hon. Mark Greenblatt, Inspector General of the Dept. of the Interior, and the Hon. Richard Delmar, Acting Inspector General of the Dept. of the Treasury - Udall Requests Formal Inspector General Review of Tribal Data Breach, Potential Conflicts of Interest in Interior Official's Role in Distribution of Emergency Coronavirus Relief to Tribal Governments


Dear Inspectors General Greenblatt and Delmar:

 

My office has received concerning reports regarding the Departments of Treasury and the Interior's administration of the CARES Act Title V Coronavirus Relief Fund (CRF) Tribal set-aside. I write today to request your full review of two issues raised by those reports.

 

First, it has been widely reported that sensitive Tribal data submitted to U.S. Treasury Department's Coronavirus Relief Fund Web portal was disseminated outside of the Executive Branch. Tribal governments submitted this proprietary data to the portal for the purpose of aiding their communities during the COVID-19 pandemic, with the expectation that it would be kept and maintained in confidence. The administration  - as a trustee  - has a duty to be a good steward of any resources Tribes place in its hands, including data. In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, Tribal communities must have the confidence that information submitted for the purposes of aiding their communities is carefully protected.

 

Second, numerous Tribal leaders and organizations have expressed concern that the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, Tara Katuk Mac Lean Sweeney, may have conflicts of interest and/or failed to comply with federal ethics laws and regulations relating to her involvement in determining Tribal eligibility for the CRF funding. In addition to your review, I ask that any Departmental ethics guidance and/or waivers granted to Ms. Sweeney related to her potential financial conflicts of interest, direct or imputed to her, be made available to the Committee.

 

As a central pillar of the federal government's coronavirus pandemic relief for Indian Country, the administration and allocation of CRF to Indian Country must be done quickly, without bias, and without the appearance of any impropriety. I appreciate that your offices are taking these concerns seriously and actively pursuing them.

 

Please keep my office and all other members of the Committee, on a bipartisan basis, updated as related inquiries proceed.