Letter to the Hon. David Bernhardt, Secretary of the Interior - Udall Seeks Answers from Bernhardt on Interior Dept. Involvement in Forcibly Dispersing Peaceful Protesters


Dear Secretary Bernhardt:I write to request information on the recent involvement of the U.S. Department of theInterior, including the United States Park Police, in forcibly dispersing crowds in Washington,D.C, that were protesting the killing of a fellow American, George Floyd, and the continuedpresence of systemic racism in our country.I am deeply disturbed by measures taken on June 1 by Federal law enforcement,including the Park Police, to clear protestors from an area north of Lafayette Square, part of thePresident's Park near the White House, several minutes before a city-wide curfew was scheduledto take effect. These actions include the alleged assault of two Australian journalists by U.S.Park Police officers. That these actions were seemingly taken to facilitate a photo opportunityfor the President makes the incident all the more appalling and undemocratic.I recognize that the Department must take necessary steps to ensure public safety and toprotect property under its care, particularly the precious and historic monuments and grounds ofthe National Mall, White House and Lafayette Square. But the suppression of a peacefuldemonstration and the decision to aggressively deploy a law enforcement presence on ParkService property in Washington, D.C.--including the indelible image of militarized lawenforcement personnel on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial--undermine the values that thesemonuments are there to celebrate, including the freedoms of speech and peaceableassembly. Moreover, reports that Attorney General William Barr personally directed thedispersal action raise important questions about how this particular incident unfolded as well ashow Federal law enforcement resources are being deployed and coordinated more generally.In addition to serving as powerful symbols of freedom and equality, the National Malland surrounding areas have a long and important history as a place for Americans to exercisetheir most cherished constitutionally protected freedoms. The National Park Service serves asthe steward of these national treasures, and many others, including those of particularsignificance to African-Americans and their struggle for equality and justice in thiscountry. Thus, it is imperative that the Department has the policies and resources in place to protect these freedoms and equality under the law at the same time that it is ensuring the securityof the public and our irreplaceable national park system properties. To that end, I respectfullyrequest that the Department respond to the following questions:

1. There are multiple conflicting accounts and statements from officials regarding why the June1 dispersal took place and why it happened when it did. Why was the decision made to have lawenforcement forcibly disperse crowds of protestors near Lafayette Square less than an hourbefore the District of Columbia's curfew was slated to take effect? Was any Departmentalofficial involved in the decision to order the dispersal?2. Who gave the order to U.S. Park Police officers to participate in the June 1 dispersal? Howwas that order communicated to the officers involved?3. What specific actions or tools were deployed by the Park Police during the dispersal (e.g.,use of tear gas or other chemical irritants, distraction devices, etc.)? Were these actions or toolsconsistent with Departmental regulations and policies governing use of force?4. Which Federal law enforcement agency currently has the lead role in coordinating theresponse to active protests in Washington, D.C.? What is the current chain of commandthrough which orders are communicated to participating law enforcement agencies?5. What is the role of officials from other Federal agencies, including the Departments ofJustice or Homeland Security, in directing the Park Police's activities during the lawenforcement response and/or limiting access to Park Service property that is normally accessibleto the public?6. Has the Department signed a Memorandum of Agreement or any other similar agreementwith any other Federal agency regarding the authority, role and duties of the Park Police toparticipate in the response to the recent protests? If so, please provide a copy.7. Does the Department intend to perform a review or investigation of the Park Police'sinvolvement in the June 1 dispersal?8. How many Departmental law enforcement officers--including the Park Police and otheragency and bureau officers--are currently involved with law enforcement response to protests inWashington, D.C.?9. How much has the Department spent to participate in the recent law enforcement response tothe Washington, D.C., protests? Please provide an estimate of total costs, including all personnelcosts and non-personnel costs, including equipment, training and construction of security barriersor temporary facilities in support of the operation.10. Have Departmental law enforcement officers been deployed to assist other Federal, State andlocal authorities in locations outside the Washington, D.C., region? If so, in what locations andfor what purpose?11. Does the Department plan to institute any further restrictions to public access to national parkproperty in Washington, D.C., including Lafayette Square, the Ellipse, or the National Mall, oneither a temporary or permanent basis?12. Please describe the training received by U.S. Park Police officers and other Departmental lawenforcement officers related to: (1) de-escalation and use-of-force tactics; and (2) civil libertiesand First Amendment protections. Are such trainings mandatory?Please respond to this request by no later than Friday, June 12, 2020. Please don't hesitateto contact me or my staff at (202) 224-6621 if you have any further questions.