SFRC Dems Demand USAID be Added to White House Coronavirus Task Force


U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.) today joined the entire Democratic bench of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in calling on the Trump Administration to grant the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) a spot on the White House Coronavirus Task Force to help develop a cogent international response and engagement strategy on COVID-19.

In a letter addressed to Vice President Mike Pence, the Senators called for improved coordination between the United States' domestic and international efforts and emphasized the importance of collaboration between the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and USAID.

"If the United States executes a comprehensive and collaborative international response effort now, we may avoid a worst-case scenario; continued delay could result in hundreds of thousands of lives lost, and a global economic downturn that will jeopardize our own recovery," wrote the Senators. "We urge you to lead in ensuring that the United States is not perceived as casting blame, disrupting global supply chains, and sowing discord and xenophobia among countries and institutions who must be seen and treated as partners in combatting the COVID-19 pandemic, The United States cannot bully its way to lasting safety and security in the fight against COVID-19."

USAID is the main federal agency tasked with leading the U.S. Government's international development and disaster assistance.  The U.S. Congress funds USAID programs to advance our national security, help lift up the world's most impoverished, and build resilient and prosperous communities that in turn promote global stability. 

"USAID is tasked with responding to the international COVID-19 crisis, and has been allocated millions of dollars to execute response efforts, yet, USAID officials have yet to provide any details on the strategy, planning, or priorities of its COVID-19 mission," added the Senators.  "Time is running dangerously short for a responsible and effective response to the pandemic. It is essential that the United States demonstrates global leadership during this unprecedented global crisis."

The letter was also signed by Ranking Member Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), and Cory A. Booker (D-N.J.).