Udall Statement on Memorial Day


Today, U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-N.M.) issued the following statement to honor our fallen service members in New Mexico and across the nation ahead of Memorial Day:

"Today, and every day, we honor the service and sacrifices of the women and men in New Mexico and across the nation whose lives were lost in defense of our country and to protect our way of life. We remember that they gave their own lives for the values that unite us all -- freedom, democracy, safety and security. We owe them a deep debt of gratitude, along with an abiding commitment to building a more free, just, and equal nation. New Mexico has long been the proud home to thousands and thousands of service members, from all of the diverse communities of our great state and nation, many of whom gave their nation the ultimate sacrifice in battle and when they returned home. This is a day for remembrance and honor for those brave and selfless individuals.

"Today, I am also thankful that throughout this global pandemic both military and civilians that have answered the call to duty in their communities, despite the risk to themselves and their families. We must show all service members, whether in uniform or not, the same devotion and dedication they have shown to us. This Memorial Day, we recommit ourselves to the values our active service members, veterans and their families have fought for. We must serve them as they have served us all, and provide the resources for them and our country to address our current challenges.

"President John F. Kennedy said that a nation reveals itself not only by the people it produces, but by the people it remembers. Today, as we remember and honor the very best of New Mexico and America, we pledge to work even harder in our own communities to affirm the values and ideals they fought for -- the principles of freedom and democracy; equality under the law; tolerance and respect for all; caring for the most vulnerable among us; and protecting those facing oppression."