Udall Calls for Urgent Action to Protect Marine Ecosystems In Virtual Keynote Launching Capitol Hill Ocean Week


Today, U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-N.M.), ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, delivered a virtual keynote speech to kick-off Capitol Hill Ocean Week (CHOW) 2020, sponsored by the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation. Udall called for urgent legislative action to protect marine biodiversity and ecosystems and for Congress to pass his bold legislation to halt the plastic pollution crisis.

Udall spoke about his Thirty By Thirty Resolution to Save Nature in the Senate, a bold national goal to protect 30 percent of U.S. land and oceans by 2030 to save biodiversity from the dual climate and nature crises. Udall also spoke about his Break Free From Plastic Pollution Act, introduced with U.S. Representative Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.) in the House, the first ever comprehensive legislation in Congress to address the plastic pollution crisis by shifting the burden of managing plastic waste from taxpayers to plastic producers and banning certain single-use plastic items.  

"You might be wondering why a Senator from the land-locked state of New Mexico is concerned with preserving marine life," Udall said. "Well -- it's because humans and nature are deeply interconnected. Humans everywhere rely on ocean ecosystems for our way of life.

"The science tells us that we must conserve 30 percent of the Earth's lands and waters by 2030," Udall continued. "The United States should be a leader in this effort. That's why I've introduced the Thirty by Thirty Resolution to Save Nature in the Senate. I'm so glad that Congresswoman Deb Haaland is leading this effort in the House.

"We also must address the plastic pollution crisis facing our planet," Udall said. "We can, and must, break free from plasticThis isn't just a problem for nature. It's a problem for humanity

"There's no doubt that we face major challenges," Udall concluded. "But I have great hope for our country and our planet. We have the power to be bold. To save our planet -- to save ourselves."

To learn more about CHOW 2020 and the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation's work, click here. 

Udall's full remarks are available below:

Hello everyone, Senator Tom Udall here. I'm so glad to help you kick off Capitol Hill Ocean Week.

The National Marine Sanctuary Foundation is doing critical work to protect our oceans and lakes. Thank you for all you do.

You might be wondering why a Senator from the land-locked state of New Mexico is concerned with preserving marine life.

Well -- it's because humans and nature are deeply interconnected. Humans everywhere rely on ocean ecosystems -- for our way of life.

Along the coasts, many people make their living from the ocean -- through fishing or tourism.

For those of us who don't live on the water, marine ecosystems still provide us with food and other benefits. They are the world's largest carbon sink.

 Here in the United States, about one-fourth of U.S. waters are protected in some way.

Even though that sounds like a lot, most of those protected areas are very remote.

And a majority of coastal areas remain unprotected.

The science tells us that we must conserve 30 percent of the Earth's lands and waters by 2030. With a long-term goal of 50 percent by 2050.

More and more nations are taking up this call. The United States should be a leader in this effort.

That why I've introduced the Thirty by Thirty Resolution to Save Nature in the Senate. I'm so glad that Congresswoman Deb Haaland is leading this effort in the House.

We also must address the plastic pollution crisis facing our planet.

Images of plastic engulfing wildlife are everywhere:

Beached whales with pounds of plastic in their bellies. Birds, turtles, and fish helplessly trapped in plastic waste.

We can, and must, break free from plastic.

I introduced the first bill in Congress that tackles this crisis. It's called the Break Free From Plastic Pollution Act. 

Plastic pollution is killing marine wildlife in devastating numbers.

At the rate we're going, by 2050, there will be more plastic waste in the oceans than fish.

This isn't just a problem for nature. It's a problem for humanity.

Communities around the world are threatened by this pollution. They rely on healthy oceans and ecosystems for survival.

There's no doubt that we face major challenges. But I have great hope for our country and our planet. 

We have the power to be bold. To save our planet -- to save ourselves. 

Thank you for all the great work that you do. Let's keep up the fight -- together.