Udall Votes to Convict President Trump on Two Counts of Impeachment


Today, U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-N.M.) voted to convict President Donald J. Trump and remove him from office on two articles of impeachment: abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.

In a speech on the Senate floor on Monday, Udall said: "The evidence gathered by the House -- that the president abused his office and taxpayer funds for personal gain -- is staggering. He got caught red-handed, and immediately commenced a scorched earth blockade in Congress and the courts to cover up his grave misdeeds."

"Knowing that these are some of the most serious and solemn words I will ever utter on this floor: I will vote to convict the president on both articles of impeachment. He is guilty by any standard," Udall said in his floor speech. "If he is allowed to act with impunity -- he will be a continuing threat to the sanctity of our democracy. He is patently unfit to hold the highest office in our land. While the Senate may vote to acquit him, he will not be exonerated -- not by this sham trial. While the Senate may vote to acquit the president, history will not."

"To those across the country who feel profoundly angry and saddened by this miscarriage of justice, my message is this: do not give up. Do not stop fighting to save our democracy," Udall said. "Because America is worth the fight."

As one of six former Democratic Attorneys General currently serving in the U.S. Senate, Udall advocated for the chamber to hold a full and fair impeachment trial with relevant witnesses and documents throughout trial arguments. Udall has spoken out against the decision by Senate Republicans to block witnesses and documents from being included in the trial, despite the Senate's constitutional duty to hold a fair and honest trial and the fact that an overwhelming majority of Americans support the Senate calling for witness testimony and documents.

Last year, President Trump was impeached in the House of Representatives for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress, after he withheld hundreds of millions of dollars in taxpayer-funded military aid to the Ukraine, in an attempt to pressure the Ukrainian government to announce investigations of President Trump's political rivals, and issued orders barring witnesses from testifying and blocked the disclosure of documents about his actions.