Udall Encourages New Mexico Voters to Request Absentee Ballots for June Election to Safely Participate in Democratic Process During COVID-19 Pandemic


U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-N.M.) released the following statement encouraging New Mexico voters eligible for the June 2 primary to send in their application for an absentee ballots by May 28. The applications are being sent to all eligible voters by the New Mexico Secretary of State this week to request an absentee ballot. Senator Udall encourages all voters to vote absentee, which will ensure their safe participation in the democratic process while following public health guidelines to limit the spread of COVID-19: 

"Free, fair and safe elections are the foundation of our democracy," Udall said. "That's why I encourage New Mexico voters to fill out their absentee ballot application in the mail this week, and to vote absentee which will keep themselves, their families and our poll workers safe during this unprecedented pandemic. I commend the efforts of New Mexico Secretary of State Maggie Toulouse Oliver and the state's county clerks who are taking the necessary steps to increase access to mail-in ballots to all eligible voters. All voters eligible for the primary will be mailed an absentee ballot application form that they should send back to their county clerk's office, or request an absentee ballot online or by phone to their county clerk's office. The deadline to request an absentee ballot is May 28, and I encourage all New Mexico voters to exercise their fundamental right to vote."

Following an April 14 decision by the NM Supreme Court, the Secretary of State will mail an absentee ballot application to all voters eligible for primary elections, who must fill out the application and send to the county clerk's office before receiving their absentee ballot. Voters registered with one of New Mexico's three political parties are eligible to request absentee ballots for the June 2 primary election. 

Voters can also consult the following information to request an absentee ballot:

Requesting a Ballot-deadline May 28

-Voters will be sent an absentee ballot application this week from the N.M. Secretary of State. They can also request an absentee ballot directly through the Secretary of State Online Portal. This portal is available for all eligible voters in New Mexico.-Voters can also contact their County Clerk by phone, by mail, or by email. Contact information for all 33 New Mexico County Clerks can be found here.-Voters can download an Absentee Ballot application to mail here and send their application to their County Clerk's office.-Voters can look up a 2020 Primary Election Provisional Ballot here.-Voters are encouraged to call (505) 243-VOTE (8683) with any questions regarding absentee voting.

June 2 Primary Information

All absentee ballot applications may be returned by mail at no cost. Absentee ballots may be returned by mail at no cost to the voter's County Clerk's Office, or in-person at an alternative voting location, mobile alternative voting location, or any Election Day polling location no later than 7:00 p.m. on June 2, 2020.