Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 1


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. UDALL. Madam President, it has been 1 year since the House of  Representatives passed the most comprehensive package of anti- corruption  reforms since Watergate--1 year. H.R. 1 shines a light on secret  campaign contributions, makes it easier to vote, and cleans up  corruption in Washington. It is the solution to the gridlock that the  American people are tired of in our Nation's Capital. But for 1 year,  H.R. 1 has gathered dust on Majority Leader McConnell's desk. 

  Every single Senator in the Democratic Congress and in our caucus  here in the Senate is cosponsoring the For the People Act, which is  Senator Merkley's and my companion bill to H.R. 1, For the People Act,  but it is buried deep in the leader's legislative graveyard. 

  Over the course of the last year, as the For the People Act has  languished, tens of millions of dollars were spent--much of it in  secret--to influence the policymaking process. 

  Almost half a dozen States passed new laws restricting voter rights.  The U.S. Supreme Court gave the green light to political  gerrymandering. And President Trump, visiting his own properties dozens  of times, funneled millions of taxpayer dollars into his own pocket.  Yet, the Republican Senate is silent--silent as our democracy faces a  crisis like none we have ever seen in our lifetimes. 

  We can draw a straight line from the crisis in our democracy to more  than 300 bipartisan bills buried in the majority leader's graveyard.  The bills waiting for Senate action are broadly supported by the  American people, but they are opposed by the ultrawealthy, the special  interests, the powerful corporations in that they try to buy our  elections. Like Senator McConnell, these Big Money interests are proud  of killing these bills. 

  Here is what happened over the year that the For the People Act has  been in the majority leader's graveyard: The number of Americans  without health insurance increased by hundreds of thousands. California  wildfires, worsened by climate change, cost $25 billion. Flooding in  the Midwest, also a casualty of climate change, cost $12.5 billion. And  22 people were gunned down at an El Paso Walmart by a White nationalist  armed with an assault rifle. Sadly, that was just a fraction of the  thousands of gun-related deaths in our country last year. 

  This is not the America that the American people want. The American  people want us to act. The gap between what the American people are  clamoring for and what the Republican majority in the Senate is giving  them is as wide as the Grand Canyon and is growing by the day. 

  Just look at the polls. Staggering numbers--closing in on 90 percent  of Americans--support universal, affordable healthcare. With these  numbers, you would think Republicans would be making sure that every  American has healthcare, but, instead, Republicans have tried to  dismantle the Affordable Care Act every chance they get. As we speak,  President Trump and 18 Republican Governors and attorneys general are  urging the Supreme Court to strike down the Affordable Care Act. 

  The American people want exorbitant prescription drug prices reeled  in. Eighty percent of Americans think the cost of prescription drugs is  far too high, and we all know that Big Pharma is the reason why. Yet  legislation to reduce drug costs is also stuck--stuck among the  hundreds of other bills on the majority leader's desk. Over the last  two-plus decades, Big Pharma has spent $3.7 billion--yes, that is  billion--on lobbying. So today the same vial of insulin, which cost  $175 15 years ago, costs more than $1,400 today. As a result, some  diabetics ration their insulin, and some, as a result, have died. 

  It is not just our healthcare. The ability of our planet to support  human life as we know it is at stake. Time and again, polling tells us  the American people want us to tackle climate change. The American  people accept the science. They understand the existential threat. Yet  dozens of climate change bills lie dead in the Senate, including my  Renewable Electricity Standard Act, to move us to 100 percent clean  energy by midcentury. 

  Nearly 70 percent of Americans, including a majority of Republicans,  believe we need to take aggressive action to fight climate change, and  almost 80 percent believe the government should invest more in  renewable energy resources. With these kinds of numbers, you would  think Congress would be passing climate change legislation on a regular  basis, except you would be wrong. Why? 

  Well, an expert analysis found that from 2000 to 2016, $2 billion was  spent on lobbying regarding climate policy, and the fossil fuel  interests outspent environmental public interest groups by a factor of  10 to 1. This is not democracy at work. This is a complete perversion  of our democratic ideals. 

  But the good news is we can change all of this. We can reinvigorate  our democracy. We can end the reign of Big Money, empower small donors,  make it easier to vote, stop political gerrymandering, and bring  ethical conduct to Washington. The majority leader just needs to stop  doing the bidding of the wealthy special interests and bring the For  the People Act to the Senate floor. 

  I know my colleague Senator Merkley is here and Senator Bennet,  Senator Whitehouse, and Senator Cardin. 

  I yield to Senator Cardin. Thank you all for being here today. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT