Don't Mess with My Home Appliances Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700166/dont-mess-with-my-home-appliances-act


Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1075, I call  up the bill (H.R. 4626) to amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act  to prohibit the Secretary of Energy from prescribing any new or amended  energy conservation standard for a product that is not technologically  feasible and economically justified, and for other purposes, and ask  for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  4626.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4626, the Home  Appliance Protection and Affordability Act, sponsored by my colleague  from Georgia's 12th District. This legislation modernizes energy  efficiency authorities to lower costs for households and protects  consumer choice.

The Energy Policy and Conservation Act, or EPCA, was established in  1975 amidst the oil crisis of the 1970s. EPCA gave statutory authority  to the Department of Energy to regulate and set minimum efficiency  standards for a list of covered products, including stoves, water  heaters, and dishwashers, as well as certain commercial equipment.

At the time, Americans were dealing with the aftermath of the oil  embargoes that led to mile-long gas lines and fuel rationing. The  initial establishment of energy efficiency regulations was a matter of  energy security.

By reducing consumption through the use of innovative technologies,  we can insulate families from the harm caused by adversarial nations  restricting access to critical energy resources.

Madam Speaker, 50 years later, EPCA has remained largely unchanged,  but under Democratic administrations, the focus of conservation efforts  shifted from energy security to green policies that advance the far- left agenda.

During the same period, the United States has become the premier  energy-producing nation, while home appliances have simultaneously  become vastly more efficient.

During the 4 long years of the Biden-Harris administration, however,  the Department of Energy used EPCA authorities to regulate a host of  everyday products like dishwashers, freezers, and dryers. But these  regulations were neither based on what consumers need or focused on  affordability. They were rooted in ambitious climate goals.

While EPCA requires regulation to be economically justified and cost  effective, the Biden-Harris administration bent the rules so that  households and businesses may not see any efficient savings for  decades.

In fact, the Biden-Harris Department of Energy regulations on dryers  could take up to 46 years to see efficiency benefits, even though  household appliances are replaced every 8 to 9 years on average.

Americans are already paying 34 percent more for their energy bills  than they were in 2010. Households simply cannot afford more expensive  mandates coming out of Washington.

At a time when Americans are struggling to pay their bills because of  inflation caused by the Biden-Harris administration's spending spree,  the Home Appliance Protection and Affordability Act takes important  steps to provide necessary relief to hardworking families. Decisions  about home appliance should be left to American families, not  bureaucrats in Washington.

The Home Appliance Protection and Affordability Act institutes  commonsense accountability at DOE to protect consumers from  overregulation. Importantly, this bill will foster continued innovation  in energy efficiency technologies. Refocusing EPCA's authorities on  cost-effective efficiency standards will lower costs while continuing  to improve household appliance performance.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.  4626, the Home Appliance Protection and Affordability Act to protect  consumer choice, to modernize EPCA authorities, and to lower costs for  American families.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, we are working on affordability. This whole bill is  about affordability. If we look, because of the current Biden-Harris  appliance policies, there is a 28 percent increase for refrigerators, a  25 percent increase for air-conditioners, and a 28 percent increase for  dishwashers.

The argument is they are going to pay more up front, but they are  going  to make it back in efficiency over time. A refrigerator takes 6 years  and sometimes, depending on which model you buy, 46 years to recoup the  increase in the value. These are Department of Energy numbers. It is up  to 10 years on refrigerators.

The question is: Do people want to pay a fourth more for a  refrigerator in the hopes that over the next 10 years they will get  that money back? It is just not realistic, and that is why we are  fighting for affordability.

When we look at the energy prices being up, we can look at a map of  the United States and see in which States they are up. They are higher.  They are higher in States that have policies like this. They come  particularly from blue States in our country. Local governments have  put the affordability crisis in their cities. State governments have  put the affordability crisis in their States.

I remember being in California just last year and putting gas in a  rental car. I looked over and I think I was paying well over $5 there  when I was paying about $2.50 in Kentucky. I remember looking over at  the guy next to me, and I said: Do you guys have any idea what the rest  of the country pays for gasoline?

It is just astounding. The policies have increased affordability, and  they come here and say we are causing the affordability crisis. With  the energy crisis, we are trying to keep power online, to keep it from  going offline so we can have affordability.

This is all about affordability. It is not about just having an  affordable product to buy. It is about buying a product of your choice.

I don't think we ever argued that anything in the Biden-Harris  administration meant that people were going to go in and take their  appliances out. When appliances only last 7 to 10 years and then they  are replaced, people are going to pay a fourth more. That is what we  are trying to fight. People are going to pay a fourth more and recoup  it in probably a longer time than that appliance has a useful life. It  is just not a good investment. It just doesn't make sense.

We think that EPCA should be reformed so that they do make decisions  based on what is affordable and what gives the best choice to the  consumers in America.

I proudly support this bill. I thank Mr. Allen for sponsoring it. I  encourage its passage.