Electric Supply Chain Act


Mr. GUTHRIE.  3638.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 3638, the Electric Supply  Chain Act, sponsored by my colleague, the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.  Latta).

This legislation directs the Department of Energy to conduct ongoing  assessments and report to Congress on the components and infrastructure  supply chain needed to secure the reliability and affordability of our  bulk power system.

It is no secret that we find ourselves in the middle of an electric  reliability crisis that is threatening the integrity of our bulk power  systems and an affordability crisis that burdens households with higher  energy bills.

Unfortunately, 4 years of the Biden-Harris administration and  excessive litigation, permitting delays, and far-left regulatory  decisions to attack baseload power sources in favor of expensive and  unreliable wind and solar have handicapped the ability of our bulk  power systems to respond to growing demands for energy.

Historic projections of increasing electricity demand from domestic  manufacturing, onshoring, and AI data centers have exposed systemic  challenges facing our electric sector and the supply chain for  components and infrastructure needed to power the system.

Meanwhile, our overreliance on China for manufacturing and critical  minerals has created a reliance on our own strategic adversary for our  supply chain needs.

Our electric grid is an essential tool for the national and economic  security of our Nation. Simply put, we need to work with the Trump  administration to make it easier to build in our country so that free- market investment for the electric supply chain flow into communities  across the country, driving economic growth and creating good-paying  jobs for households.

That is why the Electric Supply Chain Act will ensure that our  Federal Government remains in a proactive posture to assess, identify,  and address any challenges to our supply chain grid for grid  components. H.R. 3638 takes a comprehensive look at the supply chain  for our electric grid and appropriately incorporates the advice and  views of experts spanning the power sector.

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from  Ohio (Mr. Latta), the sponsor of this bill and the distinguished  chairman of the Energy Subcommittee.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas  (Mr. Weber), the vice chairman of the Energy Subcommittee of the  Committee on Energy and Commerce.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Chair, I appreciate my friend bringing up the enhanced or COVID- era premium tax credits that are expiring at the end of this month.  Since we are talking energy tonight, we need to understand that they  were set to expire, without a single Republican vote, to expire them in  the Inflation Reduction Act, which was spent money on the Green New  Deal.

So when you put in context what President Trump said--when the  premium tax credits were set to expire, we had a hearing on that and we  were talking about it. We asked: Why in the world did the Democrats set  them to expire? They said: We thought the price of insurance was going  to go down at the end of 5 years. That is what somebody said in the  committee. The price of insurance has gone up because of the policies  they put in place. The price of energy has gone up because of policies  put in their place.

What President Trump was talking about--I don't know if it was that  exact speech that was referred to, Mr. Chair, but a speech where he had  a chart up to show where high energy prices are. They are in States  with general assemblies that have progressive ideas on energy that have  put restraints on energy that have driven up the price.

Unfortunately, we have friends across the Atlantic we can look at.  They put these kind of policies in place, and Europe has three times  the energy prices that we have. What we are saying over here is that we  need to have policies that lower the prices for everybody, not raise  the cost and just subsidize it, but to lower the cost for everybody.  That is what we are trying to do. That is what we are working to do.

What frustrates President Trump is when we are trying to fix the  problems that were created by the policies of the previous  administration. They say we are not addressing affordability when they  created the affordability crisis, when they made the premium tax  credits expire. They didn't deal with the fact that health insurance  premiums are continuing to rise. Here we are dealing with it and trying  to get it right for the American people.

When you say that wind and solar is cheaper and then complain because  you took away the tax--people aren't doing it because you take away the  tax credits and subsidies. If it is cheaper and more reliable, then you  don't have to subsidize it.

Those are the kind of frustrating things in the context of what  President Trump was trying to say. Since States have a lot of influence  in this, what we are doing here in the first bill is ensuring that  States focus on how do you make it reliable and affordable,  particularly in States like Colorado where my colleague, Mr. Evans, who  put the bill forward, is from. Their rates continue to go up because of  policies of their general assembly in their State. He just wants to  ensure that their State factors in affordability when they make those  kinds of decisions. That is what we are here to talk about.

Then, in order to build again after years of delaying building, we  have a supply chain that has to get reinvigorated. You can sit down and  talk to AI companies and people that need data and need energy.

I am one for every electron on the grid we can put on the grid,  whether it comes from a solar panel or wind or hydrocarbons, as long as  it is not subsidized. We need it all.

My friend from Ohio has a bill saying that we know that it takes too  long to get a generator, takes too long to get a transformer, takes too  long to get turbine blades, and that we have to make sure our supply  chain is in place, and  also make sure that the Department of Energy is focused on it. I know  they are. Secretary Wright is focused on it to make sure there is a  statute that we have Congress saying the supply chain is important.

Delivering energy at an affordable price is a priority. That is what  these two bills today do. That is what this bill does, and I recommend  that my colleagues vote for this bill.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chairman, I rise to claim the time in opposition to  the amendment, though I am not opposed to it.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the amendment from my colleague,  Representative Houlihan from Pennsylvania.

This amendment requires DOE to evaluate the potential role  transitioning military servicemembers could play in meeting the  workforce needs for the electric supply chain.

Mr. Chair, while our efforts to reshore domestic manufacturing  facilities bolster our national security, it is also important to  recognize the economic benefits of attracting new opportunities for  job-creating industries.

Growing investments in the manufacturing sector create stable and  good-paying jobs for households and drive economic growth in  communities across our country. Our men and women seeking new  employment after transitioning back to civilian life bring incredible  skill sets and expertise to the table that could benefit companies of  all kinds.

By incorporating new consideration for DOE to evaluate the potential  for transitioning servicemembers into the workforce as part of H.R.  3638, we can ensure our veterans have access to good-paying jobs.

Mr. Chair, having served in the military, I know in the military we  get specific skills. We can be diesel mechanics. We can be all these  different things we learn in the military. Sometimes they directly  translate actually, but some others don't. It creates the opportunity  to reach out and find military members who are leaving the military and  who have specific skills for these opportunities.

Mr. Chair, I support this amendment. I was meeting with some people  the other day in this kind of industry. They said if they advertise  $120,000 a year for MBAs, they get a flood of applications. If they  advertise $120,000 a year for skilled truck drivers, they barely get  enough. They don't get enough applications.

There are opportunities for people to make a good living and have a  career. It is not just a wage but a wage that produces for their  families and will let them--he or she--be extremely successful. I  support this amendment.

Mr. Chair, since we are talking military, I must say: Go Army. Beat  Navy on Saturday.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the  amendment, even though I am not opposed to it.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I thank my friend from California for  offering this amendment.

This amendment would incorporate advanced transmission technologies  into the supply chain considerations that the Department of Energy  would also need to assess, as part of their responsibilities in this  bill. In certain circumstances, advanced transmission technologies can  help get more resources out of our current system by expanding the  grid's electric load-carrying capacity.

However, these are not one-size-fits-all technology, and there are  important engineering complexities to consider to ensure the system  operates efficiently. We must ensure they are implemented, when it is  appropriate, and cost-effective so we can secure the grid without  burdening ratepayers with unnecessary investments.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I  yield back the balance of my time.