Expressing Support for Rural Communities Across the United States As Stewards of the Environment, Major Suppliers of United States Energy Resources, Critical Providers of Food Production and Manufacturing Capacity, and Drivers of National Economic Stability, and Recognizing the Work of the House of Representatives in the 119th Congress in Support of Those Vital Communities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702076/expressing-support-for-rural-communities-across-the-united-states-as-stewards-of-the-environment-major-suppliers-of-united-states-energy-resources-critical-providers-of-food-production-and-manufacturing-capacity-and-drivers-of-national-economic-stability-and-recognizing-the-work-of-the-house-of-representatives-in-the-119th-congress-in-support-of-those-vital-communities


Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1189, I call  up the resolution (H. Res. 1182) expressing support for rural  communities across the United States as stewards of the environment,  major suppliers of United States energy resources, critical providers  of food production and manufacturing capacity, and drivers of national  economic stability, and recognizing the work of the House of  Representatives in the 119th Congress in support of those vital  communities, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the resolution.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  Res. 1182.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, before I begin my remarks, I didn't hear, until you  just announced, that   David Scott had passed. What a wonderful man  from the great State of Georgia. The resolution is from a new friend  from Georgia.

David was either married to Hank Aaron's sister or Hank Aaron was  married to his sister. I can't remember which, but he and Hank Aaron  were brothers-in-law. I told him one time that my son loved collecting  baseballs. Of course, one of the most valuable ones you could ever have  was Hank Aaron's, and he brought one to me one day.

I didn't know him that well, but he was one of those kind of guys  that if you mentioned something like that to him, he would remember it  and make sure he took care of you. He was a gentleman, and he will be  missed.

Also, while I have the floor and before I get into my remarks, David  McKinley was a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, a very  valuable member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, very serious.  He was a great engineer, but also a great person with a great heart. He  passed away last week. I think his services are this coming Monday.

Members of Congress get to serve with some really wonderful people,  and none more than David McKinley. To the level that I knew Mr. Scott,  he was a wonderful man, too.

I thank the Madam Speaker for that indulgence.

Madam Speaker, I am pleased to be here today to discuss a resolution  demonstrating the work House Republicans continue to do to improve all  the lives of the American people, especially those who live in rural  parts of our great Nation.

I am here to discuss H. Res. 1182 to cut through the noise that  Democrats continue to make in opposition to the President and to  congressional Republicans.

It seems that no matter how reasonable or even how bipartisan a  policy has been in the past, Democrats choose partisan politics over  the American people. Take, for example, our work in Congress, along  with the administration, to root out waste, fraud, and abuse in  government health programs. Energy and Commerce Republicans have  prioritized restoring program integrity in our government health  programs throughout this entire Congress, starting with H.R. 1, by  ensuring critical safety net programs can continue to serve their  intended purpose of protecting our most vulnerable Americans to now  launching a nationwide investigation into Medicaid programs across the  country.

It is disheartening that Democrats refuse to come to the table to  safeguard pregnant women, their children, low-income seniors, and  individuals with disabilities. Republicans will continue advancing  policies that protect important Federal programs.

I am here today primarily to highlight the many ways in which House  Republicans are unleashing growth in the economy following years of  heavyhanded government intervention under the Biden-Harris  administration.

House Republicans are creating the right environment for individual  Americans to set their own course and to achieve their own dreams. For  example, Republicans have enacted legislation to release domestic  energy production, such as reversing the Department of Energy's  restrictions on LNG exports and requiring Federal Energy Regulatory  Commission approval of grid-planning policies to preserve reliability  to keep the lights on for American families and businesses.

House Republicans have worked to ensure that rural manufacturers are  not unfairly penalized for emissions they did not create when we passed  commonsense reforms to the Clean Air Act permitting and permitting  relief for broadband deployment.

House Republicans have worked to enhance healthcare quality and  access through the Working Families Tax Cuts and Lower Health Care  Premiums for All Americans Act.

House Republicans have bolstered health resources for rural  communities through the Rural Health Fund Transformation Program, the  most significant investment of its kind in history.

House Republicans also enacted the SUPPORT Act and HALT Fentanyl Act,  which provide crucial resources to rural communities devastated by the  opioid crisis.

House Republicans have worked hard and continue to work hard this  Congress to accelerate economic growth and opportunity for the American  people.

Mr. Speaker, I am trying to answer everything that was just brought  up. It would be difficult to do because I am trying to figure out  exactly how to attack things that just weren't really accurate.

I would say, one, it would be accurate to say we want to give people  choices in choosing their appliance.

Would they rather pay hundreds of dollars more today to save over 46  years, I think is one of the estimates, to lower their bills.

Somebody could say: I want to pay a few hundred dollars more today  and save pennies every month over the next 46 years. I get my payback.  I think Americans should be able to make that choice.

The other is regarding Medicaid. It affects you if you are illegal,  if you are ineligible, and if you are able to work. There are States  that cover people who are not here in a legal presence. The other one  is we want to require that you check the rolls more than once a year  and verify when people come on the rolls of Medicaid. It seems like we  passed the bill now that we found out about Medicaid. We are looking at  a dozen States already but that is just what we found in Minneapolis  alone.

Mr. Speaker, we stand behind this bill. We did these great things for  rural communities.

The other is the rural transformation fund. That money goes directly  to rural hospitals, so it does make a difference. I can read quotes  from different people from different States, and blue States, saying  how it is going to transform their rural health system.

Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I urge my colleagues to vote  ``yes'' on H. Res. 1182, and I yield back the balance of my time.