Foreign Emissions and Nonattainment Clarification for Economic Stability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701730/foreign-emissions-and-nonattainment-clarification-for-economic-stability-act


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman from Alabama for  yielding, and I appreciate his hard work going into the Rural  Transformation Healthcare Fund that was in the One Big Beautiful Bill  Act. The gentleman originated the idea, and we certainly appreciate his  hard work on that.

Today, I rise to support H.R. 6409, the FENCES Act; H.R. 6398, the  RED Tape Act; and H.R. 6387, the FIRE Act.

These three bills are an essential part of the committee's broader  efforts on permitting reform and aligned with the White House  permitting priorities, which include modernizing the Clean Air Act.

A lot has changed since 1990, the last time that the Clean Air Act  got a substantial overhaul. Some parts of the law have become outdated,  contributing to the regulatory gridlock that is stifling American  growth and innovation.

A lot has changed since 1990, the last time the Clean Air Act got a  substantial overhaul, and some parts of the law have become outdated,  contributing also to more gridlock.

These bills are foundational to our permitting reform efforts because  they illustrate ways that we protect public health and the environment  while removing outdated provisions that are slowing energy production  and manufacturing, ultimately preventing job creation.

The Energy and Commerce Committee has held multiple hearings this  Congress on the process for establishing and implementing national air  quality standards and improving the preconstruction permitting program  without sacrificing environmental protections. Some of the most  expensive and significant barriers in the permitting process are the  result of the law's outdated provisions.

What is worse, these burdensome requirements fail to address the most  significant sources of pollution and create disincentives for companies  to invest in cost-efficient and effective technology that would  actually improve air quality.

In the U.S., it takes 80 percent longer to permit projects than  elsewhere in the world. America's outdated permitting system costs  manufacturers in the U.S. approximately $7.9 billion each year. While a  reasonable level of permitting is, of course, needed, without  commonsense reforms, our Nation risks falling behind our adversaries,  like China.

Notably, over 70 percent of projects require Clean Air Act permits,  which have the most burdensome approval process of any permitting  requirement. Notably, over 70 percent of projects require these  permits, and these three bills remove regulatory uncertainty and  bureaucratic hoops that impact what and where job creators build new  businesses, but they do not change the underlying environmental  protections in the law.

The FENCES Act introduced by Congressman Pfluger ensures that States  and local communities are not penalized for foreign air emissions  emanating from outside of the U.S. The FENCES Act clarifies that all  foreign emissions, whether natural or manmade, are not considered when  determining whether a State meets national air quality standards.

The FENCES Act protects manufacturers and communities from  unnecessary compliance burdens caused by events beyond their control,  such as pollution from China, foreign wildfires,  or dust storms, while upholding environmental standards under the Clean  Air Act.

The RED Tape Act, introduced by Congressman Joyce, eliminates a  duplicative environmental review for projects already subject to NEPA  environmental review. The duplicative process leads to additional  delays and costs in the NEPA process.

The FIRE Act, introduced by Congressman Gabe Evans and co-led by  Congressman Adam Gray, updates the Clean Air Act to address the biggest  threat in air pollution that this country faces today: wildfires.  Bipartisan legislation ensures that States are not punished for  prescribed burns or emissions that they cannot control.

Prescribed burns are the most effective tool to decrease the severity  of wildfires and public health problems associated with wildfire smoke.  Despite the widespread acceptance of benefits of prescribed burns, they  are underutilized across the U.S. due to perverse regulatory burdens  under current air quality laws.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 6409,  the FENCES Act; H.R. 6398, the RED Tape Act; and H.R. 6387, the FIRE  Act. These bills provide commonsense solutions and long-needed updates  to the Clean Air Act.