Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698368/lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 953, I call up  the bill (H.R. 6703) to ensure access to affordable health insurance,  and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  6703.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6703, the Lower  Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act.

When the Democrats passed ObamaCare over a decade ago, they sold the  bill on the promise that it would lower healthcare costs and preserve  plan options. If you like your plan, you can keep it and if you like  your doctor, you can keep them, we remember being quoted. These famous  last words still haunt us.

Today, we know that ObamaCare has not lived up to the Democrats'  lofty promises. Instead, the consequences of that bill continue to  burden American patients as they have since its enactment. Healthcare  spending has nearly doubled since ObamaCare passed.

Healthcare plan options have been decimated by Democratic overreach,  and millions of Americans are saddled with medical debt across the  country.

ObamaCare premiums are up 80 percent since the program's inception,  with patients paying on average $5,000 out of their own pocket to hit  their deductible. The average out-of-pocket spending maximum for 1 year  is over $20,000. Without a doubt, ObamaCare has proven to be  unaffordable and unsustainable.

In an attempt to respond to the affordability crisis created by  ObamaCare, Democrats leveraged a public health emergency to shovel  hundreds of billions of dollars to big health insurance plans to mask  the risk of rising unaffordability of coverage. First, in the American  Rescue Plan of 2021 and then again in the Inflation Reduction Act of  2023, Democrats sent temporary taxpayer-funded enhanced premium tax  credits directly to the coffers of big insurance plans.

They did this without a single Republican vote of support. On both  occasions, Democrats chose to make these COVID credits temporary. They  could have made them permanent, but they chose instead to focus on  advancing priorities for wealthy Americans, which some of these they  did make permanent by subsidizing electric vehicles for politically  connected cronies to siphon off Federal dollars of the greenhouse gas  slush fund.

Now, Democrats are uniting behind that policy to send billions more  of taxpayer dollars to big health insurance plans. With the Democrats'  temporary COVID credits set to expire at the end of the year, they are  attempting to turn their policy failures into political gains using the  American people as collateral.

It is worth reiterating. Democrats funded temporary Band-Aids to  cover up unaffordable care. They set the expiration dates. They chose  to fund liberal priorities instead of making them permanent.

While Democrats continue to fearmonger, I want to shed light on what  Republicans are doing to fix the Democrats' affordability crisis, with  policies that deliver real, lasting relief to the American people.  These include eliminating health plan gimmicks like silver loading,  which will lower ACA premiums by 11 percent; increasing transparency  for pharmacy benefit managers, the middlemen that will lower costs of  drugs for all Americans; and increasing affordable plan choices and  putting patients back in the driver's seat for their own healthcare  plan choices by instituting association health plans, CHOICE  arrangements, and stop-loss insurance.

This proposal results in more than double the premium reduction that  Democrats' extension of the enhanced tax credit subsidies would. The  Congressional Budget Office estimates this plan will lower premiums by  11 percent compared to just 5 percent from the Democratic subsidies.  These policies will also lower healthcare costs for all Americans, not  just the roughly 7 percent enrolled in the ObamaCare marketplace. Many  of these policies are bipartisan: Ending silver loading, addressing  nefarious PBM practices, and strengthening the employer insurance  marketplace all have garnered broad bipartisan support.

I hope we can overlook politics that are clouding the issue and come  together to pass this bill and continue to work together in 2026 to  deliver more affordable healthcare to all Americans.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I will remind my friends that the premium  tax credits from the ACA are extended. They are permanent. These are  the enhanced premium tax credits. It is good, and sad, that my  colleagues are recognizing that the Affordable Care Act is failing.

Mr. Speaker, we have heard sad stories. Last night, in the Rules  Committee, the Rules chairman read through different stuff. The Rules'  ranking member was in townhalls and heard stories about people who had  to buy care on the Affordable Care Act marketplace that is failing.

There is one thing nobody has ever answered. They say they have to  face their constituents. Do my colleagues explain to their constituents  that in the bill that they voted for that gave billions of dollars of  the Green New Deal; in the same bill they set these tax cuts to expire?

I know it was during reconciliation they could have done them within  10 years instead of 5. They also could have done them permanently.  There is a way in reconciliation to do them permanently, as well.

No one on the other side has ever explained why they chose to make  these tax credits expire. I am still waiting to hear the answer for  that.

In the meantime, we have our bill that will lower premiums,  calculated by CBO, in the individual market by 11 percent, as opposed  to the 5 percent that would happen if we just passed the enhanced tax  credits. Not just the 7 percent in the ObamaCare marketplace will  benefit but all Americans will benefit from this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I again ask the question: Why were these set to expire?  We hear the stories that people are reading about people in their  districts, and they say how it is unconscionable. It is unconscionable  that money was spent on the Green New Deal at the expense of the  enhanced tax credits they talk about.

We want to solve it. Mr. Speaker, $39,000 is what is brought up for  healthcare. That is the problem in America. Mr. Speaker, $39,000 for  health insurance is what we have to fix.

Mr. GUTHRIE.

Mr. Speaker, we are here to solve the problem for all Americans. Mr.  Speaker, 20 million people are trapped in the Affordable Care Act  marketplace. Our proposal lowers those premiums by 11 percent.

There are over 160 million Americans who get it through their  employers. There are Americans on other types of health insurance. We  need to fix this problem.

My good friend from Florida, Mr. Speaker, said $39,000 is what they  pay for health insurance. That is the problem. That is what we need to  fix.