Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695688/promoting-cross-border-energy-infrastructure-act


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 707, I call up  the bill (H.R. 3062) to establish a more uniform, transparent, and  modern process to authorize the construction, connection, operation,  and maintenance of international border-crossing facilities for the  import and export of oil and natural gas and the transmission of  electricity, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  3062.

Mr. Speaker, North America has grown to be an energy superpower due  to the robust trade of oil, gas, and electricity. As energy demand is  projected to increase in staggering numbers over the coming years, the  expansion of cross-border energy infrastructure throughout this  integrated market will be important.

One challenge confronting the expansion of energy trade with Mexico  and Canada is that Congress has not asserted authority to establish  procedures for permitting cross-border infrastructure.

Cross-border infrastructure, especially oil and natural gas pipelines  and electrical transmission lines, is essential to American communities  across the Nation.

Instead of a clear statutory process, a myriad of executive orders  over decades have provided the legal context for permitting procedures  of cross-border energy infrastructure.

Under this permitting regime that has been cobbled together, the  Secretary of State has the authority to issue Presidential permits for  cross-border liquid pipelines; the Federal Energy Regulatory  Commission, or FERC, for cross-border natural gas pipelines; and the  Department of Energy for cross-border electric transmission facilities.

Unfortunately, this regime has subjected infrastructure permitting  processes to the political whims of an administration, as we saw for 12  of the last 16 years under Presidents Obama and Biden. This can  severely curtail America's energy.

H.R. 3062, introduced by the gentlewoman from North Dakota (Mrs.  Fedorchak), would remedy these permitting inconsistencies by  establishing a uniform process for authorizing energy infrastructure  construction that crosses U.S. boundaries. Instead of the complex  existing process, projects would simply be required to receive a  certificate of crossing from the relevant agency for the border- crossing segment.

Nothing in this legislation alters additional permitting requirements  of other statutes, like the National Environmental Policy Act or Clean  Water Act.

It is past time for Congress to assert its authority and establish a  modern and transparent process for cross-border energy infrastructure.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Fedorchak for her leadership. I  urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, before I introduce my next speaker, I will make clear  that tariffs don't affect these products. USMCA-qualifying products,  which is crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products, and  biofuels, are tariff-free. Additionally, this legislation does not  remove permitting requirements. All environmental and regulatory  reviews of this infrastructure would continue. It is not accurate to  say that we would go around any of the qualifying. The other side talks  about us tipping the scales toward fossil fuel energy and dispatchable  power, but theirs tips the scale toward wind and solar. I think we need  all of the above, but when you say we are going to subsidize a more  expensive power, that doesn't make power cheaper. Maybe in the short- term, but certainly not in the long run, and that is where we need to  focus.

We do need to work together, as he said, to make sure we can do  permit reform and produce the energy this country needs for AI and  other things.

Mr. Speaker, I want to say that this does not replace any need for  permits, so the idea that there would be no environmental review or any  review for a  cross-border project approved by FERC or the State Department is just  not accurate. That is not what the bill does.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to be here and be here with  my friend. Hopefully, we are going to be able to work on a lot of  issues because we do care about the cost of electricity. I know they  know we care about the cost of electricity.

If the Keystone pipeline is not going to happen, which by  Presidential fiat didn't happen, we have to worry about future  situations when we are in Congress. We don't just legislate about the  past. We have to legislate for the future as well, and this is  important.

Also, I am a big believer that we have to continue to have economic  development and growth, and work in a fair way to make sure our  products are being traded fairly as well with Canada and Mexico. This  is an opportunity to do so.

In America, the one thing we have is ample natural gas. As a matter  of fact, the price of gas is historically low now because of the oil  development in the Permian Basin. An offshoot of it is natural gas.  Because it has driven the price of gas so low, we have ample natural  gas.

What we need to do and really need to work on--hopefully, we can work  on together--is if you want to lower the price of electricity, which I  assume we all do, is that the way you do that is by taking the natural  gas that we have, converting it to electrons, and transmitting it out  so people can have access to the electricity.

Mr. Speaker, that is where the expense is, not being able to permit,  to move. To create electrons and then to move them is an expense, as  well, as much as it is permitting the pipelines that we are talking  about.

We are in a battle of our time. We are in a battle where we can  choose to follow the regulatory state of Europe. We can't out-regulate  Europe. We need to out-innovate China.

Mr. Speaker, this is the beginning of a series of bills. Hopefully,  we can find a series of bills we can work on together. It needs to be  all of us, together, focused on defeating China in terms of delivering  the energy we need to do so. I encourage my colleagues to vote for this  bill, and I thank Representative Fedorchak for bringing it forward.