Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688177/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-waste-emissions-charge-for-petroleum-and-natural-gas-systems-procedures-for-facilitating-compliance-including-netting-and-exemptions


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 35 to repeal the Biden- Harris administration's natural gas tax. For the last 4 years,  Americans witnessed firsthand the implementation of a heavyhanded, top- down regulatory agenda that put the interests of the environmental left  first, leading to increased prices for families and businesses.

This resolution would overturn the rule implementing the EPA's waste  emissions charge which was published following the 2024 Presidential  election as part of the Methane Emissions Reduction Program established  in the Inflation Reduction Act. Energy produced in the United States  has some of the lowest methane emissions intensity in the world. U.S.  upstream oil and gas producers have reduced their total methane  emissions intensity by 42 percent since 2015.

We have our entrepreneurial spirit to thank for this success, not  policies like the WEC, which are unworkable for American producers and  will lead to our allies being forced to rely on gas with higher  emissions coming from adversarial nations like Venezuela.

Businesses and consumers rely on the affordable and reliable natural  gas underneath our feet. By putting new taxes on this baseload power,  the Biden-Harris administration put the interests of their far-left  base ahead of the needs of the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation that  will enable us to enact President Trump's energy agenda and restore  American energy dominance.