Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial Equipment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688548/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-for-appliance-standards-certification-requirements-labeling-requirements-and-enforcement-provisions-for-certain-consumer-products-and-commercial-equipment


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, in the subcommittee this morning, it was brought to my  attention that our colleague Sylvester Turner had passed away. He was  new here, so I didn't really know him that well. Actually, the first  time was either Monday or--the days run together. It would have been  yesterday during votes, right before we adjourned to get ready for the  special session, he was sitting right there on the aisle on the corner,  and I shook his hand and talked to him for the first time.

Today, in Energy and Commerce, there were two Members, our colleagues  from Texas, Mr. Weber and Mr. Goldman, who served with him in the Texas  Legislature. If you listened to what they said about Sylvester Turner,  only knowing him for a day or so, I missed a lot. He seemed to be a  wonderful man, a wonderful person, and my thoughts and prayers and the  thoughts of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and I know the whole  House, are with his family. He is going to be missed.

I will get down to the business in front of us. I know that has moved  all of us--that is why I wanted to bring it up--to lose such a great  colleague.

I rise today in support of H.J. Res. 42 to repeal the Biden  administration's burdensome and unnecessary certification, labeling,  and enforcement provisions for 20 different products that American  families and businesses rely on day in and day out.

Over the last 4 years, the Biden Department of Energy proposed and  finalized new and amended standards for 30 appliance classes,  regulating virtually every appliance in our houses and much of the  equipment in businesses. All of these regulations led to over $60  billion in added costs.

Implementing these certification, labeling, and enforcement  provisions will further solidify the disastrous standards promulgated  under the last administration.

This rule alone will increase costs annually by $213,000 while doing  nothing to improve appliance efficiency, extend product lifetimes, or  lower costs.

While consumers struggle to keep up with the ever-increasing cost of  appliances and dwindling product optionality, the Biden administration  consistently hampered innovation by imposing unnecessary and  duplicative regulation on manufacturers.

Fortunately, H.J. Res. 42 will roll back this red tape and enable  Congress and the Trump administration to safeguard consumer choice and  lower costs for American households.

I thank the gentleman from the Ninth District of Georgia (Mr. Clyde),  my good friend, for leading this legislation. I urge all of my  colleagues to join me in supporting H.J. Res. 42.

We will miss our good friend from Texas, as I said, who I really got  to know in the last 24 hours. I missed a lot by not knowing him longer.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this resolution.