Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690474/providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, my colleague, the gentleman from New Jersey, is a great  guy, and he is a good friend. He is mistaken in part and correct in  part. He is right that it is not one-size-fits-all. It is two-sizes- fits-all, and States other than California aren't given the opportunity  to determine whether they want to do something that is a little bit  different than California or if they want to do something that is a  little bit different than the national standard.

As Mr. Kiley pointed out in his very good comments on this subject,  the problem is when California keeps ratcheting up their regulations,  because they are a large economy, as has been pointed out, and because  several other States decide to join them, although still in a minority,  the manufacturers have to look at that and say: Are we going to  manufacture two different types of vehicles for each class, or are we  just going to follow what California has done?

De facto, this is a regulation on the Nation as a whole. De facto,  this decision by the EPA is a regulation on the entire Nation.

That is why this Congress is paying attention to its own  responsibilities and not listening to the bureaucrats and other  unelected officials. We must make a decision and vote to pass H.J. Res.  87.

It is important to the Nation as a whole to protect our trucking  industry and to protect jobs across this great land.