Recognizing Sophie Trainor Khanahmadi


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700897/recognizing-sophie-trainor-khanahmadi


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Sophie Trainor  Khanahmadi for her service to the 2nd District of Kentucky, the House  Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the United States Congress.

A native of Memphis, Tennessee, and graduate of The University of  Alabama, Sophie's tenure spans a career of over fifteen years on  Capitol Hill. I was blessed to have had her serve in my office for  nearly a decade, working her way up from Health Policy Advisor to  Legislative Director and Chief of Staff before joining the House  Committee on Energy and Commerce as Deputy Staff Director after  managing my successful race to become Chairman.

In her current role, Sophie has always been a trusted advisor to the  members of the committee and a strong leader for all levels of the  team to further the work of the committee. She brings tenacity,  forethought, and a deep policy knowledge that guides both the vision  and execution of my work in Congress. Sophie has played a pivotal role  in delivering some of the greatest accomplishments of this Congress,  such as the Working Families Tax Cuts, which included the most  significant entitlement reforms in American history.

For all of her professional talents and legislative accomplishments,  above them all, she is truly a wonderful person. I have had the  privilege of witnessing some of her greatest life moments outside of  work as well, like her marriage to her husband Peter and becoming a mom  with the birth of her son Henry a few years ago, and as their family  continues to grow.

While I will miss her steady hand at the committee, I am proud of all  she has accomplished and I am excited for her and her family as they  begin this next new stage of her career.

I ask my colleagues to join me in thanking Sophie for her service to  the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the committee, the United States  Congress, and to our country.