Recognizing Mr. Stephen D. Austin, Assistant Chief of U.S. Army Reserve


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696046/recognizing-mr-stephen-d-austin-assistant-chief-of-us-army-reserve


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and congratulate Mr.  Stephen D. Austin, Assistant Chief of Army Reserve, on his retirement  from the U.S. Army Reserve as a Department of the Army Civilian, Senior  Executive Service Tier 3.

Mr. Austin's career is a testament to unwavering dedication and  distinguished service. Over the course of 26 years in uniform and 19  years as a civilian leader, he has served in positions with increased  responsibilities, culminating in his role as Assistant Chief of Army  Reserve. A native of Oregon and a proud graduate of the United States  Military Academy at West Point, Mr. Austin has left an indelible mark  on the lives of countless Soldiers, Army civilians, and their families.

Even after retiring as a Colonel in the U.S. Army, Mr. Austin's  passion to serve endured. In June 2015, he returned to the Army Reserve  as a member of the Senior Executive Service, where he represented the  Army Reserve in the formulation and synchronization of policy and  strategy at the national, departmental, and service levels. His  leadership has been instrumental in shaping the development of policy,  resourcing, and plans that generate, sustain, and integrate Army  Reserve capabilities in support of our Nation.

Mr. Austin's professionalism, integrity, and tireless commitment to  service have been evident in every role he has held. His legacy is one  of excellence, and his contributions have strengthened the foundation  of our military and its future.

I also want to extend my deepest gratitude to his children--Sarah,  Grace, Naomi, Camille, and Nate--for their unwavering support  throughout his career. The sacrifices made by military families are  profound, and their strength and resilience are vital to the success of  our armed forces.

As Mr. Austin embarks on this next chapter, I wish him and his family  a future filled with peace, joy, and well-deserved rest. The United  States Army Reserve--and indeed, our Nation--is better because of his  service.

I thank Steve for his extraordinary career and your enduring  commitment to our country.