Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697031/researching-efficient-federal-improvements-for-necessary-energy-refining-act


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 879, I call up  the bill (H.R. 3109) to require the Secretary of Energy to direct the  National Petroleum Council to issue a report with respect to  petrochemical refineries in the United States, and for other purposes,  and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  3109.

Mr. Speaker, the American economy is fueled by petrochemical  refineries  providing affordable diesel and gasoline to families, critical inputs  for our manufacturers, and products imperative for the maintenance of  our defense systems.

The national security component of a viable refining industry cannot  be overstated, and we must not forfeit these essential supply chains.

Under the previous administration, we saw the impact of an energy  retreat: higher prices for families and businesses, emboldened  adversaries, sluggish economies, and increasing reliance on other  nations.

Unfortunately, this is still the case in States like California,  where a hostile regulatory environment has forced refineries to reduce  operations. In fact, the Golden State is expected to lose 17 percent of  its capacity in the next year. This has led to an average gasoline  price of nearly $5 per gallon, an increased fuel dependence on Asian  producers, and jeopardizing the fuel supply chain of military  installations in their State.

We must not let this become status quo across the country. H.R. 3109  requires the National Petroleum Council to collect and examine  information regarding the role of petrochemical refineries in the  United States and their contributions to affordability, security, and  reliability. The report will assess opportunities to expand capacity as  well as current risks to refineries.

H.R. 3109 will provide the Committee on Energy and Commerce the  information we need to enact policies to deliver affordable, reliable,  and clean energy to all Americans.

I thank Representative Latta, the chairman of the Energy  Subcommittee, for his leadership on this issue.

I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 3109, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

When I was a young man in the 1970s--when I was a kid, I guess, in  the 1970s--I remember gas lines and having to push my father's car to  get gasoline. At the time, everybody said we were going to run out of  crude oil. That was the thing, running out of crude oil.

I appreciate the gentleman bringing up the crude oil issue. It is  actually because of the ingenuity of the American people that we have  an abundance of crude oil. The issue isn't crude oil. It is the  refining capacity.

Since I was a kid, we found this abundance of crude oil in the  Permian Basin, North Dakota, and all the places I can name. We have  more oil than they have in the Middle East, which, when I was a kid, a  lot of it was coming from the Middle East.

Then, you have this chokepoint of refining capacity. We haven't built  a new refinery in the United States since I was a kid, so that is the  thing that we want to address. That is the issue we want to address. We  do want prices to go down. We don't want it to be $5 a gallon.

I was putting gas in a rental car in California, and I looked over at  the guy next to me. I paid probably $2.60 a gallon in Kentucky, and I  think it was $4.80 there. I said: Do you guys have any idea what the  rest of America is paying for gasoline?

We are here to address it, and we are addressing it by a bill  authored by my good friend, the chairman of the Energy Subcommittee, a  member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and a leader in this  arena.

It is frustrating that we lost 42 days because our side of the aisle  wanted to open the government and wanted to have the government  operating. We  wanted to sit down and work through the issues before us, not choosing  to not fund the government.

I was always embarrassed to even look in the eye--I voted for all of  it--to go see a TSA agent at the airport in Nashville in my home State  of Tennessee where I fly out of, the FAA people going to work at the  airport. I was embarrassed coming here and seeing the people sitting in  front of us here, the people guarding the doors of the Capitol  building, with no respect, having them come to work without respect and  paying them. That was extremely frustrating to me. It is just beyond  pale that that happened.

On the Epstein files, the Speaker tried to come and unanimous consent  the Epstein files. Remember, last week he came down and said let's pass  the Epstein files, and the other side of the aisle objected to it. I  don't know why they would object to passing the files.

They held it up for several days. I know there were a few rallies  that happened, and then we all voted. It was 427-1. Were they trying to  get the Epstein files out, or were they trying to make sure people got  in town for their rallies? That is what I would like to know.

The National Petroleum Council that we are referring to in this bill  is a part of the Department of Energy. All through government, we have  councils of people that are experts in their fields who come to D.C.  The Department of Labor has them. People from the labor community come  and have councils to give advice on bills.

We know we have ample crude. We know the ingenuity of the American  people to have ample crude. What we are talking about today is where 40  refineries in California have gone to 14. If you want affordability,  not only do you have to be able to get the crude out of the ground, you  have to refine it to where we can use it.

As we are shrinking refining capacity in this country and increasing  demand, if we don't increase supply, we are not going to have  affordability. You can talk about affordability all you want, but you  have got to have the supply to address it. That is what we are focused  on doing today.

We want the experts to give us their information. We don't have to do  what they say. We want to take their information, take the good ideas  and try to implement them into where we can provide lower prices.

If you think this doesn't work, come buy gas in Kentucky. Then go to  my good friends who are sitting here from California and buy gas in  their State, then tell us what does efficient energy policy do for  affordability. I will challenge them to do that. I will say you can buy  the most expensive gas in Kentucky, and we will compare that to what is  going on in California.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my friend from California, and I actually  do love going to California. I haven't been in the bay area in a couple  of years, and we will figure out an opportunity to come there. My  family tries to go to California as much as we can. I know he is from  the beautiful bay area. Actually, when I was talking about the high  price of gas, it was down in southern California, which has its own  beauty, as well.

I am a fan of California. Other than Kentucky, I think California is  one of the prettiest States we have in the Union. From the redwoods to  the Yosemite Valley, it is absolutely stunning. I absolutely would love  to come back out to the bay area because it is beautiful, as well.

In this bill, we are talking about electricity prices. China is  building the electric car industry, but they are also building the  power generation, like a coal plant a week, I think, to provide the  energy for that.

This bill we are talking about is on gasoline and diesel. Remember,  everything that arrives to a store comes on a truck. Sometimes they  come on a train, but the last mile is almost always or is always a  truck. Diesel prices, fuel prices, matter in terms of food prices and  about everything else that we consume.

This is important to do. Electric affordability is also important to  do, and we are committed. We will work together to get our prices down,  but we have to produce more.

That is what we are wondering. How do we efficiently, effectively,  safely, and cleanly produce more gasoline and diesel? You can't do it  without more refining capacity unless you decrease demand for it. That  is not the avenue we have to go, either.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned, other than the Commonwealth  of Kentucky, California is one of those beautiful States in our--they  are all beautiful, actually. We live in a wonderful country. There is  nothing prettier than the tunnel view from Yosemite Valley.

I don't know, with your lines changing so much, but I know my good  friend from California used to represent our beautiful natural  resources in the National Park of Yosemite Valley. He still does.

Mr. Speaker, we are all concerned about rising prices. My friend from  New Jersey talked about since 2022, and he said the emphasis is on what  has happened in the first few months of this year.

The decisions were made prior to the present Trump administration to  take power offline. I know in my community down in Bowling Green,  Kentucky, a few years ago with the polar vortex, we actually had  blackouts, we had to have rolling blackouts because of taking power  offline.

We all want to address it. The way we address this is not taking  power offline, not building new, safer--my good friend from California  talked about what they are doing in California to make refineries  cleaner and safer, and that is what we want. We want refineries to  refine in a safe, responsible, and sustainable way. We can work  together to do that.

On the LNG we are going to talk about in just a few minutes, we do  have the gas in our country. We have people who can develop,  particularly in your home State, Mr. Speaker. The problem is, can we  move it to where it needs to go. We know the challenge isn't the access  to gas, it is actually moving it to where it needs to be.

We need to work together. I think Natural Resources today had a  markup, T&I is working on a markup, and we hopefully can work together  as Members across the aisle in the Energy and Commerce Committee to do  our share to make sure this explosive growth of energy is not just in  gas and diesel but also in electricity. We need every electron we can  produce to beat China.

Talking about China, China is struggling and working as hard as they  can to beat us to control the data that flows around the world through  AI. It  is our job on this committee to see that that doesn't happen for this  country, and that is because we have to have enough energy.

Again, this is a Department of Energy council, made up of people in  the industry, to give us a report to see where we should go in making  sure that America has proper refining. It is not a report that is going  to produce what we do. It is the kind of report that informs us in what  we do. I know on our side of the aisle--I think on both sides of the  aisle--we try to take as much information as we can to make a  reasonable decision to make sure we have clean, sustainable, but ample  and safe fuel for this country in order to get groceries to the grocery  store, either through diesel or gasoline.

Prices matter. It hurts families when their electric bills are high  and when their grocery bills are high because people have to eat and  they have to have a safe and clean place to live. This is what this is  about. This is what our struggle is over, and this is what we are going  to accomplish as a committee.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on H.R. 3109, and I yield  back the balance of my time.