Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698566/saving-homeowners-from-overregulation-with-exceptional-rinsing-act


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, Pursuant to House Resolution 977, I call up  the bill (H.R. 4593) to amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to  revise the definition of showerhead, and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  4593.

Mr. Speaker, under the previous administration, American consumers  were subjected to Washington's constant micromanagement of appliances  and equipment in their homes and businesses.

In fact, the Biden-Harris administration finalized more than 30 new  or amended energy efficiency standards, totaling over $60 billion in  costs and regulating nearly every appliance in Americans' homes. Part  of this effort focused on complicating the definition of a showerhead  by prohibiting multi-nozzle shower systems if the whole system  collectively delivers more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute,  instead of following the straightforward statutory definition of a  showerhead.

The new, highly bureaucratic definition was an amazing 13,000 words  in length and a novel interpretation. This resulted in shower systems  with more than one nozzle having a lower flow rate compared to  individual showerheads.

Additionally, this definition is misleading to consumers looking to  buy multi-nozzled shower systems for the purpose of increasing water  flow.

President Trump has taken executive action to restore the regulatory  definitions and standards to the law's original intent by allowing a  maximum water use of 2.5 gallons per minute for each faucet in a shower  system. H.R. 4593 would codify President Trump's definition by allowing  the 2.5 maximum flow rate to apply to each nozzle in the shower system.

This legislation will ensure manufacturers, like Delta Faucet in my  district in Morgantown, Kentucky, are not subjected to the swing of the  political pendulum with ever-changing interpretations of the law.

Further, this legislation is simple and pro-consumer choice. It is  unfortunate that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are  seeking more regulation for its own sake and limiting the choices of  American consumers. If an individual wants low water pressure, they  have a variety of options. They can purchase a single-nozzle  showerhead, or they can simply turn down the faucet. It is that simple,  but those choices must be left to individual Americans and not to  Washington.

H.R. 4593 would bring regulatory certainty to manufacturers,  performance effectiveness to a household appliance we all use, and  choice to American consumers.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

When the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Pallone) had his poster, he  didn't actually have the poster that President Trump was referring to  when he was talking about affordability.

It was a poster that showed the different States and the rising price  of energy. It showed certain States and certain areas--he colored them  blue and red States on his poster--and the difference in what people  are paying for electric rates.

You can tie it directly to State and local governments that are  making decisions to shut down generation of energy. When you  overregulate--why are people paying more for appliances, dishwashers  and stoves? It is because of the regulations.

Why are they paying more for showerheads? As we said, if people can  have the choice, they can also turn down their water. As I said, it is  just that simple.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, when we talk about affordability, we did  pass and sign into law no tax on Social Security. It is a deduction for  people who generally have incomes that are almost all Social Security.  They won't pay any tax on that. We passed the no tax on tips. People  working on tips income won't be paying tax on their tips.

I come from the world of manufacturing where people work hard all  week hoping for overtime over the weekend so they can earn more money  for their families. Now there is no tax on overtime to make things  affordable for people and give them more money in their pocket to pay  for things, but we also need to make them cheaper.

We worked hard on energy. We have passed bills out of committee and  across the floor on permitting energy. We have energy in this country,  but we have to be able to generate the electrons, and we have to be  able to move the energy to where it needs to be. The problem is  permitting. I am a believer in all of the above, and we need to develop  an all-of-the-above energy strategy.

We have 112-gigawatts of power--a gigawatt is the city of Seattle.  There are 112-gigawatts of power scheduled to go offline in the next  decade because of environmental regulations, which we can do safely and  securely and save our environment and produce the energy that people  need.

Again, if you bring the poster that the President used, you can see  States that have the highest energy prices, and it goes to their energy  regulation that their State and local governments have done to  themselves.

Mr. Speaker, I was in California putting gas in a rental car, and I  looked over to the guy next to me and said: Do you have any idea how  much people pay for gas in the rest of the country?

I paid $2.80 in Kentucky and paid over $4 in California. It is State  and local governments that make these decisions, and they are bringing  that to Washington, D.C. We want to make it cheaper and for our people  to have more affordability.

Mr. Speaker, no, he did not ask to do this bill on the floor today. I  know the President is very interested in this issue, but not on this  floor today.

Mr. Speaker, what I have tried to ask and nobody has answered is: The  enhanced tax credits, the COVID-era tax credits, were set to expire in  the Inflation Reduction Act, which was a bill under the reconciliation  process. It was solely the Democratic Party who put that in place, and  the question I have always asked is: Why did they set them to expire?

They may say it was the reconciliation process. There were issues in  that bill that they made permanent, but they chose to have the enhanced  tax credits expire.

What happens when the enhanced tax credits expire? They are enhanced,  so we go back to the basic law. The basic law we are operating under is  the Affordable Care Act.

Why is the Affordable Care Act not saving people money?

I remember when this first came out. I was speaking to a Rotary Club,  and a person said to me at the end that I was talking so negatively on  the Affordable Care Act.

I said to him: You know, I really hope that people will keep the  doctor they want to keep, have the choices they can have in healthcare,  and their premiums will go down. If that happens, I will eat my words.  I hope I can eat my words because there is no joy in having a bill pass  and see people lose their doctors of choice, lose choice in health  plans because it is consolidating, lose choices in healthcare because  it is consolidating, and see their premiums skyrocketing.

Talking about how much the premiums are skyrocketing, do you know  why? What is the underlying law? The underlying law is the Affordable  Care Act.

Mr. Speaker, I wish I could answer the question. I wish I would get  an answer to the question of why did they set them to expire and why is  the Affordable Care Act not working.

Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, my point when I talked about the Affordable Care Act is  that once it was in place, I wish it had worked. I wish what was  believed to be in place worked because I think people with sincere  hearts were the ones who voted for it and put it in place. If we did  have choice and we had more people provided--we didn't have  consolidation, and we had cheaper health insurance. That is what we  wanted.

I will tell you that the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Ways  and Means Committee are going to be focusing on the cost of health  insurance. We talked yesterday and put out that health insurance  executives from the major health insurance companies, or CEOs, are  going to come before our committee. We are going to spend this year to  hopefully find ways that we can work together because the premiums  reflect the cost of healthcare.

We want to understand the premiums, how they devise the premiums,  where the premium is going, who is getting the money, and what about  the consolidations. We are going to have a series of hearings, and the  first one is going to be CEOs of major insurance companies to come  before our committees to do the proper oversight to see why it is going  from $14,000 to $22,000 and why are people being affected that way.

That is the answer the American people deserve. That is the work we  must do, and I hope we can do it together.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the support of the underlying bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.