Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691874/support-for-patients-and-communities-reauthorization-act-of-2025


Mr. GUTHRIE.   2483.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 2483, the SUPPORT for  Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act.

When the Committee on Energy and Commerce led the way on the original  SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act 7 years ago under the  leadership of Chairman Greg Walden, the opioid crisis looked different.  Overdose deaths were largely driven by prescription and semisynthetic  opioids, like oxycodone and heroin.

When the COVID-19 pandemic hit, government-enforced lockdowns hurt  patients in recovery and sent more people into despair, increasing the  amount of people taking illegal drugs for the first time.

Since then, the heartbreaking stories about the toll illicit fentanyl  and fentanyl-related substances have on our communities have continued.  The rate at which Americans are dying from fentanyl poisoning is just  devastating.

In our first Health Committee hearing this Congress, my colleagues  listened to the testimony of Ray Cullen, who lost his son Zach to  fentanyl poisoning. Nobody should have to experience this pain.

Earlier this year, the House took a critical step to get illicit  fentanyl off our streets in passing the HALT Fentanyl Act, which was  led by my friend, Congressman Morgan Griffith.

I am proud today to lead the reauthorization of the SUPPORT for  Patients and Communities Act. By passing this bill, my colleagues  continue our work to help improve treatment and recovery opportunities,  bolster prevention initiatives, and fight the fentanyl crisis.

This bill is about offering hope to those in despair, those battling  substance use disorder, their families and loved ones, healthcare  heroes, and first responders who need continued support to help save  lives.

I thank Congresswoman Pettersen and all the Members who have  supported this important bipartisan piece of legislation.

I am hopeful that by reauthorizing programs with proven success and  increasing access to treatment, Congress can continue to address and  prevent these tragic drug-related deaths and restore hope and healing  to those who need it.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I point out, as they have had efficiencies in HHS in this  area, it has been reported to us that there are no material changes in  the programs before us today, showing that the Trump administration has  substance use disorder and drug addiction as a number one priority.

Mr. Chair, I don't understand the logic that the best way to send a  message to the President that you support these programs is to vote  ``no'' on the bill. I just don't understand that logic. I hope we can  get bipartisan support. We will put the bill on the President's desk,  and I believe the President will sign the bill.

Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Latta), the  chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Georgia (Mr. Carter), the chair of the Subcommittee on Health, an  important worker on this piece of legislation and my good friend.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Florida (Mr. Dunn), my good friend who is the vice chair of the Health  Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I want to point out that Medicaid reform  specifically exempted people with substance use disorder from being  defined as able-bodied for the purpose of the work requirement. It  specifically exempted them. We understand that Medicaid is a big payer  for people with substance use disorder recovery services, and our bill  exempted them. That will continue.

Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.  Balderson), my good friend.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I want to point out one more time that in  Medicaid reform, people with substance use disorder and mental health  issues are exempted from having to comply with the work requirement so  that hardworking taxpayers who go to work will provide the categories  we were just talking about today with Medicaid. They are not going to  provide for the able-bodied. There is an exemption  from the able-bodied requirement for substance use disorder recovery  and mental health.

Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs.  Cammack), my great friend and a member of the Energy and Commerce  Committee.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I will remind you that we spend about almost  $700 billion in Medicaid. When this bill goes into effect, 10 years  from now, we are going to spend $1.1 trillion in Medicaid. I just want  to make sure that point is made.

Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from California (Mr.  Obernolte), my good friend and a great leader on the Energy and  Commerce Committee.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Michigan (Mr. James), my good friend and very strong leader on the  Energy and Commerce Committee.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Kansas (Mr. Schmidt), one of our freshman Members, not a member of the  Energy and Commerce Committee, but he has been on the front lines of  the opioid crisis in Topeka as attorney general, and it is great to  have his expertise in the Congress.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, this isn't a hollow exercise. This is our opportunity to  say these programs are important to us. Article I of the Constitution  clearly gives us legislative authority: All legislative authority will  vest in the Congress of the United States.

We authorize these programs. I don't think the answer is to say we  believe in these programs, therefore we are not going to vote to  reauthorize them because we don't believe they are going to be carried  out. It is our job to authorize them, to work the appropriations  process, and then to do the oversight to make sure these are  implemented.

If the White House and the President can do this more efficiently, I  am all about doing it more efficiently, but our job is to ensure that  the mission is accomplished. If they can do that with different  agencies, we need to have that debate. I think that is important. It  starts with authorizing the program, and in this case reauthorizing the  program.

Mr. Chair, I just want you to know there are no reasons to vote  against this in substance. The language of this bill that we have  before us was negotiated by both the House and the Senate, with the  Democratic leaders and the Republican leaders in the House and the  Senate, so it was bipartisan and bicameral discussions. That is the  text of the bill before us.

What we are here doing today, it is not a hollow move. That is not it  at all. We are here today to say these are important to us. If there  are discussions on what is important and what is not important, the  first thing we need to do is come together as a House and say these  issues are important to us as a House. Let's get this bill to the  Senate and put it on the President's desk.

I strongly believe the President will sign this bill because he  believes, as we all believe, that people are hurting. They are hurting  with substance use disorder. You have the supply coming across the  border that he is shutting down and trying to shut down, but we also  have to deal with the demand side. We need not just to slow down the  demand, which is important, but change people's lives because when they  are suffering with substance use disorder, it is just chaotic on  themselves, their families, in which they live and the friends that  they have.

This truly changes people's lives. It is a bipartisan bill.  Everything in it is bipartisan and has been discussed. I just encourage  my colleagues to vote for this bill, reauthorize these provisions,  fight to get them through the Senate, put them on the President's desk,  and then fight for their authorization through the appropriations  process, as well. I am committed to doing that, and I look forward to  hopefully a bipartisan vote on this bill.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Chair, I really appreciate the hard work of the gentlewoman  from Colorado (Ms. Pettersen) on this issue. She is a leader in  Congress on substance use disorder.

I actually didn't know the story of my friend from Colorado's mother.  Certainly, when someone is touched by an issue, they certainly become  passionate about it. I greatly appreciate her passion on the issue.

The section 1115 waivers are important to the Medicaid program.  States are the laboratories for democracy. Section 1115 waivers provide  key State flexibility to test new authorities and ideas in the Medicaid  program.

In substance use disorder alone, 1115 waivers were pivotal in early  efforts to lift the IMD exclusion, an obsolete edifice to the Medicaid  program that undermines access to mental health care and substance use  disorder care by only allowing for Medicaid to reimburse for care in- patient facilities with fewer than 16 beds.

Under President Trump's guidance, in 2018, States were able to use  1115 waivers to waive the IMD exclusion, expanding access to care as  the opioid epidemic began to grow worse.

After 5 years of State experimentation with 1115 waivers to lift the  IMD exclusion, Congress stepped in and ultimately lifted the IMD  exclusion. We took on that initiative in 2023, alongside the rest of  the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act. We were able to get that  signed into law, even when the Senate blocked the rest of the SUPPORT  for Patients and Communities Act, because it was important to get it  done.

The 1115 waivers have been on the books for decades, and States have  used them a multitude of ways to transform the Medicaid program. A key  tenet of those waivers, though, is that they have to be budget neutral.  This wasn't a problem when 1115 waivers were used to lift the IMD  exclusion. States were clearly able to demonstrate how early access to  care reduced emergency room services.

Nonetheless, the Biden administration in the use of 1115 waiver  authorities put forth new guidance that allowed States to rely on so- called hypothetical expenditures that let States spend Medicaid dollars  on services that were over budget and unrelated to the core functions  of the Medicaid program.

Some examples of this included paying for air conditioning systems  for beneficiaries and for providing payments for legal support for  beneficiaries. This isn't to say that HVAC systems in a hot climate or  legal supports aren't important or may have some potential relation to  someone's health, but they fall far outside the scope of what Medicaid  is intended for. They open the door for States to draw down Federal  funds or for services that are oftentimes entirely funded by the  States.

In 2023, as the then-subcommittee chairman for Energy and Commerce's  Health Subcommittee, I raised concerns with that direction with the  Biden administration as they were moving toward these waivers.

Specifically, in this CMS, I wrote:

``The committee is also concerned about the potential for fraud,  waste, and abuse in calculation and application of States' budget  neutrality limits under Section 1115 Medicaid waivers.''

As chairman of the full committee, those concerns remain. Madam  Chair, 2 weeks ago, House Republicans began to take steps to address  this. In the reconciliation bill that we passed, we included key  language to require stricter adherence to the budget neutrality  requirements for 1115 waivers.

It doesn't matter if the President is Democrat or Republican who is  approving these waivers. It needs to be budget neutral. We need to be  good stewards for programs like Medicaid and to make sure that it is  spending in a fiscally responsible manner and that we aren't just  writing blank checks to States who can spend money how they choose.

I will close by saying I greatly appreciate the leadership my friend  from Colorado has shown. She is a leader in this House and in ensuring  that we deal with as much as we possibly can in every way possible with  substance use disorder. I believe we need to stick to the budget  neutrality.

Madam Chair, I oppose the amendment, and I yield back the balance of  my time.