Highlighting Republican Successes in 2025


Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Moore so much for the  time. I appreciate it.

Mr. Speaker, it is a new year and with every new year, I like to  reflect on where am I going. What am I doing? What do I want to  accomplish this year? What did I accomplish the year before? That is a  great time to do it with America. Where are we?

It reminds me, Mr. Speaker, at the Constitutional Convention in 1787,  Benjamin Franklin famously looked at the chair behind the presiding  officer that was carved with a Sun and he asked a question that still  echoes throughout history: Was the Sun rising or was the Sun setting?

In that moment, a fledgling Nation hung in the balance, and even the  Founding Fathers did not know whether liberty would prevail.

For far too long, Mr. Speaker, the American people have felt the same  uncertainty, years of what many viewed as America last policies that  left families struggling, dreams deferred, and our Nation asking  itself: Are we on the rise or decline?

To answer that question, we need to look at where we have been for  the last year. We need to look at the results that this President,  President Trump, and where the House Republican leadership has taken  this country over the last year.

Together, we have accomplished real results. It starts with tax  relief for American families with the working families tax cut. Mr.  Speaker, do I need to remind you, it is only the largest tax cut in  U.S. history. Workers can keep more of what they earn with no tax on  tips and no tax on overtime. To our seniors, I have good news for you,  too. With the new deduction, you are not going to pay any tax on Social  Security benefits.

But wait, there is more, Mr. Speaker. We have unleashed American  energy, restored our independence, and brought down costs at the pump.

Do you know why we don't hear why eggs cost so much anymore, Mr.  Speaker? Because they don't. Thank you, President Trump.

We have restored law and order and brought accountability by securing  the border, supporting law enforcement, strengthening the rule of law,  shrinking the Federal bureaucracy, cutting wasteful spending, and  demanding accountability for every taxpayer dollar. We are seeing it in  real time. Finally, things are happening.

We have rebuilt American strength at home and abroad, revitalizing  our military, advancing peace through strength, standing firm with  allies, and deterring adversaries. We have put veterans first by  expanding access to care and ensuring the benefits that they have  earned. Our country has made that promise to them. We are honoring  promises, Mr. Speaker.

Finally, we have brought transparency and common sense back to our  institutions, dismantling DEI mandates, and restoring fairness, merit,  and basic common sense. We have begun to make America healthy again by  examining finally what is in our food supply, empowering patients,  expanding health savings accounts, and improving access and  accountability across our healthcare system.

We ran on these promises. We delivered on these promises.

Mr. Speaker, we are just getting started. Is the Sun rising or  setting? I can say with absolute certainty, the Sun is rising under the  leadership of President Trump, Speaker   Mike Johnson, and House  Republicans.

Make no mistake, more is to come.

As the Sun rises, we are ushering in America's golden age: a time of  renewed strength, prosperity, and opportunity for every citizen in  every community across this great land. The best days of our Nation are  still ahead, and together, we will make America stronger, safer, and  greater than ever before. It is, once again, Mr. Speaker, morning in  America.