Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Mr. Chair, ``If you build it, he will come.'' ``If you build it, he  will come.'' Those are the words Kevin Costner's character famously  heard, a mysterious voice encouraging him to construct the most famous  baseball field in America, the ``Field of Dreams.''

Unfortunately, Mr. Chair, that only happens in the movies. Because  for the last 2 years, if anyone in the free State of Florida tries to  build anything, only the Washington bureaucracy will come. However,  this wasn't always the case.

In 2020, Florida became the third State, joining Michigan and New  Jersey, to implement and run a Clean Water Act section 404 Permitting  program.

These State-run programs reduce duplicative requirements, reduce  costs, and expedite permit approval times exactly as Congress intended.

Throughout the State-administered review process, Federal agencies  maintained robust oversight to ensure Florida's 404 permitting program  complied with all Federal requirements, while the EPA maintained strict  control over Florida's decisions.

However, Florida's successful permitting program, along with Michigan  and New Jersey, has been thrown into limbo by litigation stripping  Florida of its ability to run its program. The court's decision, which  is contrary to the position of both the Trump and Biden  administrations, has shifted permitting authority back to the Federal  Government, creating enormous disruptions to Florida's efforts to  protect wetlands and water resources and is now blocking Florida's  ability to issue necessary permits for development projects across the  State, including: projects to restore Florida's Everglades; projects to  build or improve sidewalks, bridges, utilities, roads, and highways;  solar energy projects; and other projects that impact grid reliability.

The ability for States to take the lead in regulating their natural  resources is vital, particularly in a State like Florida where growing  our economy is contingent on protecting the environment.

Mr. Chair, that is why the Bean amendment seeks to codify the  permitting program administered by the States of Florida, Michigan, and  New Jersey, and to provide certainty to the other States lined up to do  the same.

These States have been examples of cooperation between the State and  Federal Government, and now Congress must provide clarity and  confidence for any additional State interested in joining these three.

We need this amendment because protecting the environment in Florida  is protecting our field of dreams.

Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Chair, I remind the gentlewoman from  Michigan that Michigan is such a beautiful State. It has got one of the  longest freshwater coastlines of any State. That may be a trivia fact,  but no one is going to fight harder for Michigan's environment than the  people of Michigan. This amendment gives them that authority back, and  so I would ask her to reconsider her opposition.

Mr. Chair, I include in the Record two letters: One from the Florida  Department of Environmental Protection in support of the Bean amendment  and, also, a letter from the National Association of Home Builders also  detailing how passage of the Bean amendment and underlying bill will  lead to the creation of more attainable housing.                                              Florida Department of                                        Environmental Protection,                                    Tallahassee, FL, August 7, 2025.      Hon. Aaron Bean,      House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Representative Bean: On behalf of Florida's       environment and regulated communities, I would like to voice       my support for the Maintaining Cooperative Permitting Act of       2025 (H.R. 2030/S. 1014).

The Act is necessary to set right last year's ruling from a       federal district court in Washington, D.C., which vacated the       Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)'s approval of Florida's       Clean Water Act Section 404 Permitting Program. The Act will       also provide a clear and workable path for other states to       assume administration of this important program.

The D.C. court's decision, which is contrary to the       position of the Trump and Biden Administrations as it relates       to Florida's program, has shifted permitting authority back       to the federal government, creating enormous disruptions to       Florida's efforts to protect wetlands and water resources and       is now blocking Florida's ability to issue necessary permits       for development projects across the State.

State ``assumption'' of the Section 404 program is an       important part of the Clean Water Act's cooperative       federalism structure. Assumption can streamline permitting       processes, reduce duplication of effort and overall       expenditures by state and federal authorities, while       providing better protection of a state's environmental       resources by those who know their state best.

Beginning almost a decade ago, Florida began work to       establish a comprehensive Section 404 permitting program.       After receiving approval from EPA in 2020, Florida trained       over 300 certified wetlands evaluators and other staff and       received and processed thousands of permit applications for       Section 404 permits. Florida's program is consistent with       federal Clean Water Act requirements and all permit       applications are reviewed by both federal and state wildlife       agencies to ensure full protection of threatened or       endangered species and their habitats.

I urge you to support the Maintaining Cooperative       Permitting Act of 2025 to ensure Florida's Clean Water Act       404 permitting program is rightfully restored to the state.            Sincerely,      Alexis A. Lambert.                                   ____                            National Association of Home Builders,                                  Washington, DC, December 10, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson: On behalf of the more than 140,000       members of the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB),       I am writing to convey our strong support for H.R. 3898, the       PERMIT Act, which will provide necessary clarity and       confidence required under the Clean Water Act (CWA)       permitting process. Because clear and predictable permitting       leads to the creation of attainable housing, NAHB has       designated support for passage of H.R. 3898 as a KEY VOTE.

Regrettably, housing production is not keeping pace with       demand. Among the significant headwinds facing the home       building industry is an unpredictable regulatory landscape       that adds costs and reduces the availability of buildable       lots--making housing more unattainable. This legislation       respects environmental protections and provides pragmatic       solutions to Section 404 and Section 402 of the CWA.

Under Section 404--dredge and fill permitting--home       builders pull some of the highest numbers of Nationwide       Permits (NWPs) issued annually. To assist with planning and       permit backlogs, this legislation extends the duration of a       NWP from 5 to 10 years and right sizes the acreage threshold       for impacts to where the NWP was originally intended.

To better assist states in assuming their own 404       permitting authority, this bill requires the Environmental       Protection Agency to review its regulations and procedures       surrounding the 404 approval process. This will help       streamline and ease administrative burdens states face when       attempting to assume their own permitting program.

A key feature of Section 404 permitting is the Waters of       the United States rule. This bill codifies long-established       exclusions such as ephemeral features, groundwater, and prior       converted cropland that have been included as part of WOTUS       regulations over the years. This will provide important       predictability and consistency for property owners when       determining which water features are jurisdictional.

Under Section 402--the National Pollutant Discharge       Elimination System (NPDES)--this legislation would require       permit writers to tie NPDES permit conditions to what happens       on their site, rather than what happens downstream to impair       receiving waters. This approach allows regulators to explain       the measures that home builders must take to comply with       their NPDES permit, without imposing numeric discharge       limits.

NAHB additionally urges passage of Amendment 27, submitted       by Representative Crawford, pertaining to compensatory       mitigation. Compensatory mitigation has become a significant       cost and barrier for builders: Representative Crawford's       amendment takes meaningful steps towards reducing mitigation       costs through simple, commonsense reforms that maintain       environmental protections while allowing for economic growth.

NAHB also commends Amendment 52, submitted by       Representative Bean, pertaining to state assumption of the       Section 404 program for Florida, Michigan, and New Jersey.       Litigation over state assumption has created significant       uncertainty for CWA permitting nationally, and NAHB urges       Congress to return Section 404 to its original intent,       allowing states to assume the permitting role. This will       provide confidence and clarity for states interested in       Section 404 assumption, and builders within those states.

The home building industry requires certitude in the CWA       permitting process. The PERMIT Act respects environmental       safeguards and makes significant strides in ensuring clarity       in the regulatory process. For these reasons, NAHB       respectfully urges passage on the House floor.

Thank you for considering our views.            Sincerely,                                                   Lake A. Coulson.

Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Chair, this has been a model. This program  works. The Reagan administration approved Michigan's program. The  Clinton administration approved New Jersey's program. Then Florida's  program was approved by the Trump administration and then defended by  the Biden administration. This is something we should agree on,  bipartisan support to help protect the environment.

Mr. Chair, it is Florida, Michigan, and New Jersey, but here are the  States that are in line, that say we  want to protect our own environment, too: Alaska, Arizona, Indiana,  Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, Oregon, and Virginia. They  are all in line to fight for their own State and protect the  environment in their own State.

As I wrap up, I thank Chairman Graves for his leadership, as well as  Congressman Collins and Congressman Rouzer. They have all said we need  to step up. Our environment is worth fighting for, and that is what the  Bean amendment does. I ask for your support.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.