Recognizing Alhambra Theater Dining


Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, they say all the world is a stage,  but in Jacksonville, Florida, the best seat in the house comes with  dinner and a standing ovation.

Mr. Speaker, it is with great excitement that I rise today to  recognize the Alhambra Theater & Dining in Jacksonville, Florida--are  you ready for this, Mr. Speaker?--for being named the Best Dinner  Theater in America by USA Today's Readers' Choice Awards.

Since opening its doors in 1967, the Alhambra has brought Broadway to  Florida's First Coast, hosting a wide variety of shows, musicals,  comedies, and tribute acts.

Under the visionary leadership of my good friend, Managing Partner  Craig Smith, the Alhambra has evolved into a unique destination where  art, entertainment, and culinary excellence converge to create an  unparalleled experience.

Mr. Speaker, the Alhambra isn't just a destination. It is a source of  community pride, a cultural beacon, and a testament to the power of  community and the arts.

As we celebrate this incredible honor, I look forward to more  captivating performances, more incredible meals, and more nights filled  with the joy that only the Alhambra can provide.

When Craig is there, and he is most nights, he personally welcomes  each audience. When you step through the doors, Mr. Speaker, you are  not just attending a show. You are stepping into a legacy, one that  continues to shine brighter with each curtain call.

Earning this recognition is no small feat. I congratulate Craig and  the entire Alhambra team on this well-deserved honor, and here's to  many more standing ovations.                       Honoring Sergeant Billy O'Leary

Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, we are all in a hurry. We rush  through life, and sometimes, we don't know the impact we have on  others.

One of my favorite books is by Mitch Albom, ``The Five People You  Meet in Heaven.'' The book says that when you get to Heaven, you get to  see other people's lives, the impact you had on their lives, and how it  unfolded.

On the other hand, Mr. Speaker, we know the people who have very much  impacted our own lives, such as Sergeant Billy O'Leary, who was,  indeed, a giant of a man in northeast Florida.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the life of Sergeant Billy  O'Leary, of Fernandina Beach, Florida, a man who dedicated himself to  service, leadership, and community that few people can match.

Billy's passing was tragic and sudden. It hurts. It leaves an  undeniable void. His legacy, one built on honor and commitment, will  live on in the hearts of those whom he had an impact on.

Billy will be missed by his sister, Robin; his children, Skylar,  Caitlin, and Emery; three beautiful grandchildren; and scores of  friends and coworkers.

Billy, first and foremost, was a man of service. He answered the call  to defend his country as a United States marine, proudly serving 4  years with discipline and courage. Afterward, he made the transition to  law enforcement, serving with the Fernandina Beach Police Department  and continuing with a 25-year tenure with the Nassau County Sheriff's  Office. As a sergeant, he led with integrity, mentoring officers and  strengthening public safety to ensure that his community remained safe.

Billy's impact, Mr. Speaker, stretched far beyond the badge. He  played football for the Fernandina Beach Pirates and went on to play  for Newberry College. When he returned home, he constantly coached for  Babe Ruth baseball and Pop Warner football, and he poured his heart  into Pirate Athletics. He was the voice of the Pirates. At every  football game, Mr. Speaker, you would hear Billy-O with the call.

He was president of the Quarterback Club, which is the fundraising  arm for the football team. Our kid was on the football team. Like so  many others, our kid graduated--sorry, Mr. Speaker. He was just a big  deal.

So many others that are a part of this Quarterback Club where their  kids had already graduated years ago are part of a group that could not  say no to Billy O. We keep working for the football team because nobody  wants to tell this guy no. He would say: Help us out. It is for the  kids.

Mr. Speaker, Billy was a marine, a protector, a coach, a voice, a  leader. He was just a friend. He was my friend. I am--it hurts. I  think, Mr. Speaker, why it hurts so much is because the impact he made  was so great.

God speed to Billy. He will be missed but not forgotten.