Better is Possible


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695039/better-is-possible


Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, once again, we find ourselves staring down  a deadline to fund the government--deadline after deadline after  deadline. Once again, we expect to see our colleagues across the aisle  use this as an opportunity to put partisanship over people.

Like so many Americans watching from home, I must ask: Why does this  keep happening? Why does this keep happening?

My colleagues across the aisle either don't understand, or they  simply don't care about how a government shutdown impacts people, real  people. They seem to think that it is a tool that they can use to force  their cruel agenda onto our communities and a tool to take more from  the folks who they have already hurt with their big, ugly bill.

During recess, I conducted a roundtable with school leaders from 18  cities in my district, and they talked about the challenges that  students will face with cuts to SNAP benefits and the school lunch  program. They spoke of how students will not be able to show up to  school ready to learn and how it would impact their learning experience  and their school environment.

I spoke to families who told me that they didn't know how they would  be able to afford healthcare once their Medicaid is cut, once the  effective date kicks in. We talked to many constituents about how they  would be able to afford to put food on their tables once SNAP benefit  cuts kick in.

The people deserve a government that works, a government that works  for the people, one that is stable, functional, and focused on solving  real problems, not constantly heading toward a shutdown, not a  government engaged in constant cruelty, constant chaos, and constant  confusion.

Once again, the American people deserve a government that works for  them. That means investing in what matters, such as public safety. How  about education, transportation, healthcare, and the services that  families and communities rely on the most? Those are the programs we  should be investing in, not cutting. We need more investments in these  programs.

Mr. Speaker, we must and will oppose attempts to slash those  services, and we won't support a partisan, poisonous bill that hurts  the people we serve and the people who depend on us, the people who  have elected us to work on their behalf and their behalf only. That is  as simple as that. We will not support it, point-blank, period.

Better is possible. We know that better is possible. We know better,  despite what the other side of the aisle does. That is why we are going  to continue to fight like hell for the people we serve because we know  that they deserve better.

We will not stop fighting, no matter what. We are fighting not just  to pass something to keep the lights on for another few months but for  a solution that actually serves the American people, something that  makes people's lives better.

Did we forget why we are here and why the people elected us? They  elected us to make their lives better, not to hurt them or make their  lives worse. That is not our job. Let me remind you: The people elected  us. They put their trust in us to make their lives better, not worse.

I invite all of my colleagues to join us. Join us to fight for people  and to work for people. Let's get back to the real work in these  Chambers. Let's make it make sense why we are here working on behalf of  our constituents who have elected us. Let's get back to the people's  business.

Kamlager-Dove).

Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I am telling you, it is time for us to work  for the people.

I thank the fine gentlewoman from California for those remarks. It is  time for us to work for people. That is what we are here for. That is  what your constituents voted for you to do; not to make cuts. Think  about it. I say this to my colleagues across the aisle, the next time  you are out in your district working, ask one of your constituents: Is  your life better? Has your life been better since January 20? Is it  better? Ask. See what they tell you. I can bet you that it isn't.

McClellan), my co-anchor of this Special Order hour.

Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Virginia for  those remarks, and I yield back the balance of my time.