District of Columbia Policing Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695638/district-of-columbia-policing-protection-act


Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with deep concern for our  Nation's Capital, also known as chocolate city.

The four Republican bills on the floor this week are a direct attack  on the people of this city, particularly the Black and Brown  communities who have called D.C. home for generations.

These are residents who have built thriving small businesses, who  have received an education from the D.C. school system, residents who  have raised families and who call themselves proud Washingtonians since  birth.

This bill, H.R. 5143, would impose the President's twisted vision of  justice on D.C., overriding the autonomy of this city and hurting the  people who live here.

Enabling deadly vehicle pursuits of suspects in the city, as a former  councilwoman and a council president of the largest city in New Jersey,  I know firsthand that this is dangerous. That is on top of the other  bills that we are debating this week that seek to strip D.C. of its  autonomy, force more juveniles into the justice system, expand the  President's gross overreach, and make things worse.

The bills proposed by my Republican colleagues will worsen the  already rampant injustices we see in the criminal justice system, make  law enforcement more dangerous, and steal the futures of many of our  youth.

These bills all send the same statement to Washingtonians: The  administration does not believe you have the same right to dignity as  other parts of this Nation.

If Congress truly wants to make our Nation's Capital as safe as it  can be, we would listen to the residents of D.C. and their elected  leaders who have lived experiences of what this community needs. The  dog whistles used to justify these bills are not true. The D.C.  Government has long taken a proactive approach to reducing crime in the  District and today is experiencing a three-decade low in crime.

D.C. has done this in part by having a police force that looks like  the very people it is sworn to protect, lives in the community it  serves, and caters to the unique needs of D.C. residents.

Mrs. McIVER. H.R. 5143 discourages basic public safety, pushes lies  about crime in the Black and Brown communities, and puts everyone in  harm's way and at risk.

That is why it is no surprise of who the sponsor is of this very  dangerous and wicked bill. This bill is dangerous, once again, and a  complete disaster to this community.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''