Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692101/save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-2025


Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding me  the time.

My colleague across the aisle, obviously, wants us to be ``sleep''  because that is the opposite of being woke. I guess my colleagues  should introduce sleepy policies and be ``sleep'' at the job.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to voice my strong opposition to the efforts to  undermine American small businesses by the very agency tasked with  fueling them.

Let me be clear. This is what H.R. 2931 would do. It would allow the  Small Business Administration to gut punch the small businesses it is  supposed to serve, just to punish cities that embrace their immigrant  communities.

Targeting sanctuary cities, as this bill does, is beyond the scope of  the SBA's duties. It flies in the face of what the SBA is supposed to  do: lift up small businesses in communities across the country, no  matter what city they are located in or what party they belong to.

Rather than driving economic growth, this legislation would strip  essential resources from some of our Nation's most vibrant and diverse  communities. This would hurt the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands  of businessowners. If the New York office were to close, the effects  would spill over into my own community. The SBA office in Newark  services over 800,000 small businesses in New Jersey alone. Cutting  offices from these areas will stall growth and jeopardize jobs. It will  displace employees and disrupt critical services that local businesses  rely on. It will burden nearby offices and stretch resources very thin.  It will make it harder for businessowners to get the help they need  when they need it. Newark's office would be overwhelmed if the New York  City office closes.

This bill weaponizes Federal resources to hurt cities that have made  the choice to protect immigrant communities. This is unjust.

I have worked closely with my Democratic colleagues to raise these  concerns directly with the SBA administrator through multiple letters,  outreach, and even in the Small Business Committee yesterday. SBA's  responses, if any, have been dismissive.

I stand firmly against using the SBA as a tool to penalize cities  based on their immigration policies. I hope my colleagues will stand  with me.

I urge Members to vote ``no'' on the Save SBA from Sanctuary Cities  Act of 2025 to protect the SBA's mission and vibrant economies for all  of our cities.