Trump's Labor Agenda: Unsafe and Underpaid


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695577/trumps-labor-agenda-unsafe-and-underpaid


Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of our Nation's  workers, to give voice to their fear, their concerns, and their anger.

While the American people are focusing on putting food on their  tables, the Labor Department has finally dismantled decades of hard- fought protections for our communities. These rollbacks are not just  isolated attempts. They are part of a broader, calculated effort to  weaken the rights, safety, and dignity of America's workers in the  hopes that no one would notice.

But guess what, Mr. Speaker?

We have noticed. We will not let them get away with it.

My colleagues and I have demanded the Labor Secretary end these  attacks on working people and their families. If the Secretary will not  act, we will take matters into our own hands. That is why we are here  tonight, to bring these actions to light and to show the American  people exactly what is at stake.

Tonight, Mr. Speaker, you will hear from my colleagues about the  impact of each of these rollbacks and about the way that our friends,  our neighbors, our coworkers will be hurt by something the  administration is trying to do in the shadows.

Mr. Speaker, you will hear about the specific rules that this  administration has rolled back, rules that put home care aides,  farmhands, construction workers, workers with disabilities, minors, and  so many more at risk. As you hear about these rules, ones that don't  always get a lot of attention but that matter so much to the people  they protect, you will come to the same conclusion, Mr. Speaker, that  we have.

If you work in America today, Mr. Speaker, you are less safe than you  were 1 year ago, and you are more likely to be underpaid, exploited,  and ignored. You are more likely to be hurt on the job, Mr. Speaker,  underrepresented, and left to fend for yourself.

That is unacceptable.

I am proud to have led my colleagues in urging the Secretary of Labor  to immediately reverse course on these actions. As I yield to my  colleagues standing with me tonight, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues  across the aisle to consider:

How many more of these rules do we let the Trump administration get  away with before saying enough is enough?

I hope this convinces them to follow suit.

Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member, the fine  gentleman from Virginia, for his remarks and for coming here this  evening to talk with us.

Mr. Speaker, home health aides are some of the most essential workers  in our economy, taking care of our parents and grandparents as they age  and ensuring that sick and disabled people can live with dignity.

It is downright despicable that this administration has proposed to  reverse the rule requiring that these vital workers be paid the Federal  minimum wage.

This reckless rollback threatens the dignity, wages, and basic rights  of nearly 4 million of our lowest paid and most essential workers, the  majority of whom are women and women of color.

These care workers are certified nursing assistants, home health  aides, personal care attendants, and direct support professionals. They  provide skilled, often medically necessary care, from administering  medication to helping with daily activities like bathing, dressing, and  eating.

Their work is both physically and emotionally demanding. It is  essential to the health, safety, and independence of nearly 10 million  older adults and people with disabilities who rely on these services to  remain in their homes and communities.

For some, it is the care they receive from these aides that actually  helps them enter or remain in the workforce. It is difficult to capture  the profound impact they have on not only families but our economy.

While they wait for that proposal to go through, the administration  has already announced that they will no longer enforce the care worker  rule, effectively stripping these workers of basic wage protections  without notice, without public comment, and without regard for the  devastating impact this will have on families, caregivers, and our  long-term care system.

Mr. Speaker, I just can't wrap my head around some of these changes.  Home care workers are too valuable. They are already underpaid and  unprotected, with 2 in 5 already living at or near the poverty line.  Nearly one-half rely on public assistance to make it, and now Trump  wants to give the green light to pay these folks less than $7.25. Yes,  I said it, $7.25 an hour.

It is just wrong. It is completely unsustainable. We are already in  the midst of a staffing crisis in the care economy. I know my  colleagues are afraid of the Bureau of Labor Statistics these days, but  BLS says that demand for home care workers will grow by more than 20  percent in the next decade as our population ages.

Mr. Speaker, how are we going to recruit and retain the workforce we  need to take care of our seniors if we don't pay them?

Surely, they can't make it if we don't pay them. They can't stay  employed if we don't pay them.

Mr. Speaker this is not just a labor issue. It is a civil rights  issue. It is a women's right issue. It is a disability issue.

I know this administration is already sick of hearing from me, but  that is too bad. In August, I wrote to the Secretary of Labor urging  her to stop these rollbacks. Today, I want to again call on the  Department of Labor to withdraw this dangerous and disgusting proposed  rule immediately, to reinstate full enforcement of the 2013 rule, and  to focus its efforts where they belong, on improving wages, training,  and conditions for our home care workers.

Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks and  for joining me this evening.

At this very moment, the Department of Labor is working to rescind  the Farmworker Protection Rule, a Biden-era standard that gave  farmworkers, many of them seasonal workers here under the H-2A visa  program, the basic right to speak up about unsafe working conditions  without fear of being fired or deported.

Let's be clear. This rule that the administration is attacking wasn't  about politics. It wasn't about gangs or drugs or any of the disgusting  tropes the other side will paint against hardworking immigrants. It was  about seatbelts in vans, safety on the job, and the simple human  dignity of not being punished for demanding better conditions.

What has this administration done? They have proposed stripping those  protections, both for transportation safety and for organizing on  farms. While they wait for that change to take effect, they have  announced they will not enforce the 2024 Farmworker Rule at all.

What does that mean in practice? It means workers, including the  300,000 seasonal workers worked for come to  our country to do vital work, supporting our Nation's agriculture  industry, are once again forced to choose between their safety and  their survival. It means transportation will remain the leading cause  of death for farmworkers, and it means that the worst of the worst  employers get a free pass.

It doesn't stop there. The Trump Department of Labor also wants to  stop coordination between the Department of Labor's Wage and Hour  Division, OSHA, and the Employment and Training Administration on  enforcement of farmworker protections. These agencies are supposed to  work together to stop abuse.

Corrupt recruiters have infiltrated the H-2A program, charging  workers illegal fees and taking advantage of the most desperate migrant  workers and actually facilitating human trafficking.

The administration's answer? Make it harder to investigate them; make  it harder to kick these abusive recruiters out of the H-2A system; and,  against their own promises, let the trafficking continue.

Let's be clear again. The H-2A program is one of the largest sources  of labor trafficking in the United States.

The safety regulations the Department of Labor is going after were  designed to keep workers safe, but Trump's regulatory changes sent a  clear message to employers. Retaliate against your workers, is what the  administration is saying. Trump says: Silence them all you want. No one  is coming to stop you.

This doesn't just hurt migrant farmworkers. It drags down the working  conditions and wages of all agricultural workers in America. Every time  protections are stripped away from one group, it undercuts the baseline  for everyone else.

This is all by design. While this administration is gutting legal  protections, they are slashing transparency, too. The National  Agricultural Statistics Service just announced it will eliminate the  Farm Labor Survey, the very tool we use to understand what farmworkers  are paid and how they are treated. This survey informs wages for H-2A  jobs. Eliminating it makes exploitation easier and accountability  harder.

Mr. Speaker, the cruelty here is not accidental. It is deliberate. It  is rooted in a despicable framework that sees farmworkers, particularly  those from other countries and those that are Black and Brown, as  disposable.

These workers feed America. They feed you every night. They do the  work most people can't and won't.

Instead of protecting them, this administration wants to strip away  their voice and hand power to the very people who exploit them.

Omar) to  discuss the tools available to OSHA to keep Americans safe at work.

Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms.  Omar) for joining me tonight and for her remarks.

Mr. Speaker, when it comes to Trump's attacks on the diversity of our  workforce, the Department of Labor is his biggest cheerleader and  superfan. As a matter of fact, they are president of the fan club.

After Trump rescinded the Equal Employment Opportunity executive  order, the Department of Labor proposed to remove the requirement that  those who do business with the Federal Government cannot discriminate  in hiring.

On top of that, Trump is demanding that companies send proof that  they are eliminating their antidiscrimination programs and show proof  that they abandoned affirmative action plans.

Federal contractors may sound to some people like a narrow, far-off  group. Who even are they? In reality, Federal contractors are a massive  segment of our economy, and chances are that you or someone you know  relies on Federal contracts for work.

Under Trump, their employers would no longer be able to even collect  data on the racial, ethnic, and gender makeup of their workforce. Let  me repeat that: The Federal Government is proposing that contractors no  longer even track discrimination.

If you stop collecting the evidence, you can pretend the crime no  longer exists. The result: an older, Whiter, more male-dominated  workforce that doesn't really reflect the diversity of backgrounds that  makes our Nation great.

Let's call it what it is: a calculated, careless, cowardly rollback  of hard-won protections carried out under false pretenses and driven by  an agenda that wants to take us back to 1964.

If that weren't enough, just weeks after the Trump administration  announced its plans to eliminate the Office of Federal Contract  Compliance Programs, the agency charged with enforcing  antidiscrimination in Federal contracting, the Department of Labor has  now launched a full-scale attack on workers with disabilities. It is  shameful.

Trump's DOL is dismantling the requirement that Federal contractors  take steps to employ qualified individuals with disabilities. At a time  when disabled Americans face historic employment gaps, this  administration wants to turn back the clock and undo the progress that  we have made over decades of disability work. As my colleagues have  mentioned, they even want to bring back the cruel, outdated policy of  allowing employers to pay disabled workers less than minimum wage,  often pennies on the dollar. How  disgusting for someone who is doing the same work as everyone else each  and every day.

My colleagues across the aisle want you to be afraid of Federal DEIA  programs, maybe even to think they are stopping you from getting a job.  In reality, these are things like paid internships, so you don't have  to come from a well-off family to work a Federal job, or basic  disability accommodations in the office, like making sure the office  coffee pot is in reach of someone in a wheelchair.

Are these destroying our workforce like the President says?

These moves are not about fairness. They are about power and about  stripping protections from the most marginalized so that the powerful  can operate without accountability.

We need to be open and honest about the truth. These actions will  increase discrimination in the workforce. They will make us less  productive, not more productive. They will turn the focus of Federal  hiring away from merit.

Some of these rollbacks, Mr. Speaker, are terribly awful, but some of  them seem like they are just torn from a law textbook. Seriously, the  administration wants to get rid of the minimum lighting standards for  construction sites. Let me say that again for the public who may be  watching. This Trump administration wants to get rid of the minimum  requirement for lighting standards for construction sites.

For those of you watching at home, I know that, sometimes, what we do  here is a bit hard to follow, and maybe you don't want to sift through  the jargon that gets thrown around. Let me just read to you the  standard that this administration wants to get rid of. Here is what  Trump wants to take out of the Code of Federal Regulations. It reads as  follows: ``Construction areas, aisles, stairs, ramps, runways,  corridors, offices, shops, and storage areas where work is in progress  shall be lighted with either natural or artificial illumination.''

This gets rid of the requirement for good lighting on construction  sites so that you can't see the nail you are hitting. Who okayed this?

Seriously, let's just think about this for a second. If you are  working on a construction site, under the Trump administration, your  boss does not have to make sure that any electrical equipment rooms,  first aid stations, and the rest of the job site actually have enough  light to allow you to see what you are doing.

We hear all day about the regulations supposedly weighing down our  economy and all about the red tape. Without a doubt--I sit on the  Committee on Small Business--I am happy to talk about red tape, but  these are basic safety standards.

What do I know, right? I am here to represent the people of New  Jersey's 10th Congressional District. I don't work on a construction  site every day. Like me, you may want to know what the experts think.  In 1962, Congress created the Advisory Committee on Construction Safety  and Health to answer just that question.

Mr. Speaker, guess what. The Trump administration fired all the  members of the committee, and OSHA just issued a final rule removing  the requirement that it consult with the committee before modifying or  repealing construction safety regulations. Trump's OSHA doesn't have to  consult the experts because it said so. It is just because they said  so. It is truly unbelievable.

Let's make something clear, Mr. Speaker: The administration's actions  at the Department of Labor aren't just tinkering, and they are not just  some complicated, bureaucratic procedure. They are life-and-death  decisions that, right now, the Department of Labor is rolling back  protections on that generations of miners fought and died for.

Earlier this year, the Department of Labor planned to shutter dozens  of the Mine Safety and Health Administration field offices across the  country. These are the frontline offices that work to keep mines safe  and help to review plans, inspect sites, and make sure someone is there  to look out for workers when lives are on the line.

Eventually, when that plan came to light, the administration changed  course and announced that it would not close the 34 offices it wanted  to. Mr. Speaker, they are now trying to shutter the offices another  way: by gutting the rules that give the Mine Safety and Health  Administration the power to act, even if the offices stay open.

Let me walk you through just how dangerous these rollbacks are.

One repeal removes the requirement to inspect drilling areas for  hazards before operations begin and gets rid of the need to repair  dangerous drilling equipment.

Another rollback narrows the training protocols that the Mine Safety  and Health Administration district managers can require before  approving mining operations. In fact, Trump wants to limit what can be  required in a roof control and ventilation plan, which would help  protect miners from roof collapses and toxic dust in the air. He wants  to deregulate roofing and necessary ventilation.

Mine operators are no longer required to give workers hard copies of  hazard communications, or HAZCOM. Historically, employers are required  to inform their employees in a mine of what chemicals or hazards they  may face to help prevent injury and illness. Trump and his cronies are  even going after the tools used to measure lighting and visibility  underground, as I mentioned about the construction sites, as well.

As we speak, Trump is working to give more control to mine operators  about their safety and health plans, even when we know that injuries  and deaths will follow.

We know what keeps miners safe, but this administration doesn't think  we should let the Mine Safety and Health Administration require it.  Maybe the most unbelievable decision is the delay of the toxic silica  rule, a rule 40 years in the making.

The science is crystal clear: Silica exposure causes lung cancer,  chronic respiratory disease, black lung, and even death.

The Mine Safety and Health Administration itself had estimated this  rule would prevent more than 1,000 deaths and 3,700 cases of silica- related illness, but the Trump administration says it is on hold.

What are we talking about here?

Weakening or removing respiratory requirements, fit testing, medical  evaluations, and training for exposure to some of the most dangerous  substances like asbestos, lead, vinyl chloride, and more.

Look, colleagues and Americans watching at home, the administration  says it is too prescriptive to ensure workers don't inhale poisons that  actually kill them. It is too much of a burden to make sure a  respirator actually fits. It is too much red tape to make sure a  worker's lungs can survive the shift.

What do you say?

Let's be clear: Miners and workers didn't ask for these rollbacks.  The only people calling for these changes are the lobbyists and  executives who have never stepped foot inside of a mine, who have never  watched a coworker die in a collapse, who have never buried a friend  with black lung.

Safety cannot be optional. Miners cannot be expendable. Congress  cannot stand idly by while the Labor Department turns on the people it  was created to protect.

Stansbury).

Mrs. McIVER. Thank you so much to the gentlewoman from New Mexico for  joining us and for your remarks.

Mr. Speaker, tonight we have heard about the increased discrimination  in the workplace, the repealing of protections for those with  disabilities, and the dangerous construction sites our neighbors are  forced to show up to.

All of this is part of the dangerous campaign the Department of Labor  has launched to dismantle decades of progress for working Americans.  These rollbacks are a direct assault on workers' safety, wages, and  dignity.

From healthcare workers, many of them women and women of color, at  risk of losing minimum wage and overtime protections; to construction  workers who could now be forced to operate in unsafe conditions with no  guarantee of adequate lighting or visibility standards; to farmworkers  who already endure grueling conditions are being stripped of hard- fought protections.

None of this is okay. This is not normal.

Allow me to say this plainly for the second time tonight: If you work  in America today, you are less safe than you were a year ago. You are  more likely to be underpaid, exploited, or ignored. This is  unacceptable.

I am proud to have led 64 of my colleagues in urging the Secretary of  Labor to reverse course, and I am proud of the work we have done here  tonight to make sure that none of this goes unnoticed.

This work is about the people, the people we serve and every single  American. It is about the home care worker pulling double shifts. It is  about the construction worker trying to make it home to his kids. It is  about the farm worker who feeds our families and us but can't protect  their own families.

We have heard about the rules that will put America's workers in  danger, and if we do not do something about these rules, things will  get worse for American workers. They are unsafe and underpaid, and it  is time we do something about it.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you, and I yield back the balance of my time.