Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701224/womens-history-month


Mrs. McIVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the fine gentlewoman of Virginia  (Ms. McClellan) for anchoring tonight's Special Order hour to celebrate  Women's History Month and to celebrate and speak truth tonight. I am  glad to be standing here during Women's History Month right after Black  History Month to celebrate specifically Black women.

Black women have always looked at this country and thought and asked:  How can I make it better? They then fought for that ``better.''

When we weren't given a seat at the table, we made it our mission to  bring a folding chair. We have always stood in the gaps. We have a long  history of being first to take on the fights that others would not take  on.

Looking at the pain and suffering among our families, neighbors, and  friends, and deciding to step in to protect the vulnerable and speak  out for the voiceless, especially when those in power won't fight for  us. We fight for us.

We know our liberation is tied to the liberation of others: Black,  Brown, immigrant, citizens, every race, every gender, all of us. We  know that truth, and that is why there is continually so much effort  put toward stopping us. Even if this very body in this very Chamber,  Black women are under attack.

We are currently witnessing a coordinated and vicious assault on the  foundations of our freedom and history. We are seeing the effects of  reckless economic policies, forcing hundreds of thousands of Black  women out of the workforce. We are watching Black women stripped of our  healthcare and maternal care. With every statistic, there are real  human costs behind them.

There are mornings that I wake up feeling exactly how they want us to  feel: powerless, hopeless, angry, and tired. It is the example of the  Black women leaders that came before me that remind me that we cannot  back down. There is no progress through comfort.

Now is not the time to become complacent. Yes, we are tired. We are  being pushed, but now is the moment for neck-deep courage.

Just last month I was in Selma for the remembrance of Bloody Sunday.  A speaker referenced how in Exodus, Moses went neck-deep into the Red  Sea before it was parted. He took the first step toward a raging ocean  because he knew that his prayer to be liberated would manifest.

She spoke of how Harriet Tubman went neck-deep to wade in the water,  facing the threat of death, because she knew that freedom was worth  fighting for.

Mr. Speaker, the toughest fights to freedom require you to go neck- deep. Every generation must step up and ask: Are we neck-deep people?  And one thing I know is that is who Black women truly are. I am saying  it plain: Black women are under attack, but we are not going to be  silenced or scared--not now, not ever.