Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700465/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. HICKENLOOPER. Mr. President, ``We now have a government that  cannot manage even a simple crisis at home while, at the same time,  stumbling into continuing catalogue of catastrophic events abroad.''  That is a direct quote from President Trump a year ago, spoken about  the Biden administration, which President Trump spoke in his inaugural  address just over a year ago.

Fast-forward 1 year, and now, it is this administration dragging the  United States into an illegal war with Iran, one that has already taken  American lives and spread chaos and destruction to an entire region.  Iran's authoritarian regime is brutal, corrupt, oppressive, but the  President's approach leaves us facing profound, unanswered questions  about new dangers that may be unleashed.

I don't think there can be a clearer question raised about this  administration than the President's own words said a year ago. We have  a government that can't manage a simple crisis at home, and at the same  time, we have one that is actively seeking catastrophic conflicts  abroad. Every strike, every military escalation, every headline is a  distraction. It pulls our attention overseas from the urgent economic  struggles that Americans face at home. It distracts from the hard, less  glamorous work it takes to make life more affordable for the American  people. Iran is only the latest in a long line of distractions.

Right now, the United States and Israel are hitting targets all  across Iran. The Trump administration entered this war with no plan of  what comes next. And, now, the killing of Iran's Supreme Leader has  left that country facing a dangerous, uncertain future.

The conflict is spreading. Iran is retaliating by launching missiles  at U.S. bases and partner countries across the Middle East. The entire  region has now been dragged into this war, and six American soldiers  are already dead. As we speak, more troops--our courageous men and  women--are being deployed into this volatile region, all to fight a war  of choice that is illegal. It is a war that the American people don't  want.

The administration can't agree on a joint goal, a strategy, or even  an endgame. They don't seem to have one. They didn't anticipate how to  evacuate hundreds of thousands of Americans living in or visiting in  the Middle East who are now being told to flee a war zone but can't  because the airspace is closed.

The United Kingdom has been evacuating its citizens throughout the  region, but our government, which has been planning this attack for  months, doesn't seem to have plans for Americans.

These are worse than mistakes; they are failures that are already  costing American lives and throwing the region into chaos. All the  chaos serves a purpose and distracts from the President's failures at  home; the rising prices, the violence of ICE against American citizens,  and the unreleased Epstein files.

While this House--this White House--wages war abroad, working  Americans are barely treading water at home. Over the last year, the  President's disastrous illegal tariffs have crushed small businesses in  Colorado and across the country. They have raised costs for all  Americans. Tariffs clearly are a tax on Americans.

Just this week, gas prices reached an 8-month high in the response to  the war in Iran. Americans are already paying for this war at the gas  pump. Rent and home prices continue to rise, pushing the average  American's first home purchase to age 40--an alltime record.

Tens of millions of Americans are paying double for their healthcare  because the President and MAGA Republicans passed legislation that will  lead 15 million people to lose their coverage altogether.

In 85 of the country's largest metro areas, childcare for two kids  costs more than rent. On top of all that, U.S. job growth is at its  weakest since COVID, and wages aren't keeping up with inflation.

According to Moody's, the top 10 percent of U.S. households now  account for nearly half of all spending. That means, on paper, the  economy may look relatively good but only for half of Americans--half  of Americans at the top.

While working families struggle to get by, the President has given an  extra boost to the powerful and well-connected. The Trump family  themselves have made $4 billion off the Presidency, and his  administration helped pass $4 trillion in tax cuts for the wealthiest  Americans and for the largest corporations. They forced taxpayers to  give up healthcare in order to pay for this tax cut.

Meanwhile, our communities feel out of control. We have witnessed ICE  arrest children, separate families, kill Americans, all with zero  accountability. We have seen the President and his Department of  Justice delay and deny the release of the Epstein files--the full  Epstein files. And the selective files we do have, the name ``Trump''  shows up more than 85,000 times.

Americans want safety. They want justice. They want to be able to pay  their bills. Instead, what they are getting are coverups, corruption,  and chaos. Here is the thing: Americans know that something is wrong.  Every paycheck feels a little small. Every trip to the grocery store  and the doctor, every bill for rent, energy, or childcare is never  quite enough.

It is a terrible feeling. Americans work hard every day and still  feel like they are getting nowhere. The last thing that they need--the  last thing that we need--is another war.

Americans know how this story ends because we have been here before.  We remember Iraq. The more the President fuels this war machine, the  more  American families are getting closer to running on empty. It is time to  cut short this illegal war and demand that the administration deliver  for Americans and focus on our homes, for every family, for every  soldier, for every paycheck, for every taxpayer dollar.

A year ago, the President warned about a government ``stumbling into  a continuing catalog of catastrophic events abroad,'' but that is what  we have done. We don't need this war. We need to focus on doing better  at home.