2027 Presidential Budget Request Will Make Life Harder


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702035/2027-presidential-budget-request-will-make-life-harder


Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Garcia for his  leadership on this.

Americans are struggling. They are struggling with the high cost of  living because of Republican policies that are doing nothing to bring  down prices.

The cost of gas is too high. Americans are paying more for gasoline  this year because of Trump's war of choice against Iran. Americans have  seen the price spike in the last month, and the average household is  expected to spend an extra $740 on gas this year because of Trump's war  of choice against Iran.

Groceries cost more. The average family paid over $300 more for  groceries last year. They are paying more this year, whether it is for  bananas, coffee, and other basic goods. We can thank Republicans and  Trump's tariff war for that along with the war on Iran. Trump's tariffs  cost families more than $2,500 extra this year.

Utilities bills are also soaring through the roof. Since Trump took  office, electric bills have gone up as much as 13 percent nationally  while residential natural gas prices have increased by 12 percent.

Mr. Speaker, do you remember when Donald Trump and Republicans  promised to lower costs on day one?

That was a lie. The cost of everything is going up, squeezing every  penny from American families. As costs continue to rise, this  administration is doubling down on the wrong priorities. The  President's latest proposed budget not only does nothing to lower the  cost, it puts Americans last. At a time when energy bills are rising,  they want to eliminate energy assistance programs to help keep the  lights on for many families. At a time when food prices are high, Trump  and Republicans want to cut programs that would put food on the table  for mothers and children. At a time when housing is unaffordable, they  are cutting programs to help keep a roof over people's heads. At a time  when families are struggling to get by, they are proposing massive  increases in defense spending and pouring billions of dollars more into  wars of choice overseas.

Americans were forced to pay an extra $1,600 on everyday expenses  last year because of Trump's and Republicans' policies, and Trump's  budget will force many of them to pay even more.

I have heard from people in my district. Erica from my district is a  single mother of two. She worries about how to plan meals for her  children because she can't buy as many groceries. She takes them to  free parks and pools because she can't afford extracurricular  activities.

A restaurant owner, Ralph, in South Gate, had decided between making  payroll or paying the electricity bill. He paid his staff. His  electricity was cut off, and it cost him thousands of dollars more to  have it turned back on.

A nonprofit in my district told us that families are calling for help  because they are forced to choose between paying for food or paying for  basic expenses like electricity and water. Working people can't keep up  with rising costs, and many are falling behind.

Mr. Speaker, Americans deserve a budget that works for them, not one  that burdens Americans with higher prices while taking resources away  to keep families afloat.

Americans deserve better. They deserve to be put first. Democrats are  using every available tool to fight back against Republicans' dangerous  agenda and fight for the American people.