Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693137/condemning-the-violent-june-2025-riots-in-los-angeles-california


Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this partisan and  misleading resolution under consideration.

We have heard our colleague distort the facts already through this  debate. I want to remind the American people and everybody that it was  local law enforcement that got the situation under control before the  National Guard and the Marines showed up. I know because I was on the  phone with the sheriffs and local law enforcement who said, no, they  don't need anybody, that the situation was under control.

This resolution distorts the facts of what happened in Los Angeles.  It falsely paints a picture of widespread chaos across Los Angeles to  justify and legitimize Donald Trump's dangerous decision to deploy the  National Guard and U.S. Marines on American soil, all without the  consent of California's Governor or a request from local leaders and  law enforcement.

That is why I worked with Representative Zoe Lofgren to introduce a  resolution that condemns violence, supports peaceful protests, and sets  the facts straight.

Angelenos have exercised their First Amendment right to peacefully  protest Federal ICE raids that have terrorized our communities.  Unfortunately, there have been a small handful of troublemakers who  have taken to the streets to cause destruction and physical  confrontation.

Mr. Speaker, they should be arrested and prosecuted, something that  the Governor, the mayor, and L.A.'s congressional delegation have  called for from the start.

Let's remember, though, how we got here. What we have seen on our  streets  is chilling. There are masked men in unmarked cars. They have no  identification or badge. They are drawing weapons. They are swarming  businesses and parks to indiscriminately stop, arrest, or detain  immigrants and U.S. citizens.

People are being stopped and detained because of the color of their  skin. These are not violent criminals. The majority of the people have  no criminal record.

They are taking the parents, and they are leaving the kids stranded.  They have set off flash-bang grenades in crowds. ICE even arrested U.S.  citizens based on how they looked.

Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, it is this conduct that is causing people  to go out in the streets and peacefully protest.

President Trump's deployment of troops only escalated tensions and  caused further unrest. Democrats have been clear. Anyone who commits  violence must be held accountable. We must recognize that peaceful  protests are patriotic. Deploying troops to silence dissent is not.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution ignores those facts to score political  points, and I urge a ``no'' vote.