Prices Are Too High


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699895/prices-are-too-high


Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, prices are too high. Under Trump's  economy, Americans are paying more. Just the other day, Trump said he  is very proud of this economy. Americans cannot afford this Trump  economy.

The nonpartisan Tax Foundation has said that under the watch of Trump  and Republicans, the U.S. has had the largest tax increase as a percent  of GDP since 1993 because of tariffs.

These tariffs are a tax on the U.S. and Americans. They are  estimating that U.S. households are paying a thousand dollars more in  2025, and it is going to go up in 2026.

Let's talk about electricity prices. Families across the country are  opening their electric bills and asking: Why is my bill so high, and is  anyone doing anything to bring down these prices?

The Trump administration promised Americans they would cut costs,  including energy costs. They promised cheaper power. Instead, families  are paying more right now. While fossil fuel companies take in record  profits, families are afraid to use the air-conditioner during  dangerous heat waves because their electricity costs will spike.  Seniors are turning off the heat on frigid winter days. Prices jumped  sharply last year, far faster than paychecks.

Last year, there were 43 different electricity rate hikes across the  country, totaling over $11 billion in new costs for ratepayers.  Millions of households are saying they cannot afford this. They are  already behind on their utility bills, and more and more households  have had their electricity shut off by utilities.

This is not an accident. This is a choice by Trump and Republicans.  Clean energy, like wind and solar paired with battery storage, is the  cheapest power we can build. If we build more of it, we can lower  electricity prices, which means American families will be able to turn  the heat on in the winter or the AC on during dangerous heat waves, but  the Trump administration and Republicans in Congress are doing  everything they can to stop clean energy that will help lower costs for  the American taxpayer.

They are rolling back programs that help build low-cost power. They  are making it harder to build new wind, solar, and transmission  projects. Projects that were already planned, financed, and under  construction to deliver cheaper electricity are now stalled or  scrapped. The result: higher prices for working families.

House Democrats are fighting for affordable clean energy. We believe  energy policies should make life easier, not harder.

Mr. Speaker, we believe the way to lower prices is to build more  clean, affordable power, not less.

We believe that no senior should have to choose between heat and  medicine and no family should have their power shut off, while fossil  fuel companies make more money than they have ever seen in the past.

Americans deserve better than broken promises and rising bills. We  must deliver lower costs including lower energy costs for American  families.