Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690469/providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Ms. BARRAGAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak for the families who  cannot afford to breathe dirty air for another day. I rise for the  parents who have rushed their child to the emergency room because the  smog outside triggered another asthma attack. I rise for the young  people who have the right to a future free from polluted air, climate  disasters, and preventable health crises.

House Republicans are trying to overturn EPA's approval of  California's clean air waivers, a move that would strip California's  ability to protect its people from dangerous air pollution.

This isn't just about California. Over one dozen States voluntarily  follow California's standards. If we overturn these waivers, then  families from New York to Oregon will feel it, too, in their lungs.

States are not forced to adopt California's standards, but many  choose to because of the harm air pollution causes their communities.

If these measures pass, then more pollution will fill our air, more  kids will miss school because they are sick, more seniors will land in  the hospital, more families will lose loved ones far too soon to  preventable deaths, and billions of dollars will be spent on health  expenses that could be avoided.

Communities like the ones I represent, low-income neighborhoods near  freeways, ports, and warehouses and working-class communities of color,  are already, indeed, breathing some of the dirtiest air in our country.

Thousands of people in California and around the country wrote in  support of these clean air protections that Republicans want to rip  away.

Jane Flynn, from the L.A. area, wrote EPA in support of the clean  truck rule. She said: ``Living in southern California, I see how truck  pollution impacts our families: asthma, heart disease, respiratory  problems. These aren't just numbers. They are our children, our  parents, and our neighbors. Please allow California to enforce stronger  clean air protections.''

Tia Triplett from Los Angeles wrote to EPA that heavy truck pollution  threatens the health of her community, and she urges stronger  protections.

House Republicans want to silence these voices.

Our constituents don't need more diesel trucks idling near our homes,  pumping smog into our lungs. They need cleaner trucks, cleaner cars,  and cleaner air.

Mr. Speaker, we should build a future where children can play outside  without an inhaler in their backpacks or around their necks, a future  with fewer hospital visits, not more. We should stand with communities  fighting for their right to breathe, not keep them polluted.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to stand with our communities and  protect their right to clean air. Vote ``no.''