Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act


Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her confidence  and for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 1919, the so-called  Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act. At the expense of U.S. global  economic leadership, this misguided legislation would prevent the  Federal Reserve from issuing a central bank digital currency, also  known as a CBDC.

Unfortunately, the facts surrounding the development of CBDC have  been obscured by disinformation, conspiracy theories, and extreme  political ideology. Republicans and the crypto industry have made  unfounded claims that a CBDC will be used as a surveillance tool by the  Federal Government.

Let's be clear about what a CBDC is. It is a publicly issued digital  dollar that would be regulated by the Federal Reserve, an independent  Federal Reserve, that would have the full faith and backing of the U.S.  Government. A CBDC could serve as an alternative to existing forms of  payments, and it will have benefits, including instant payment  settlement, providing a medium for cross-border transactions, and  fostering greater financial inclusion. Additionally, Congress could  require that the architecture of a central bank digital currency not  have surveillance capability.

More than 130 countries are or have been studying or have launched  their own government-backed digital currencies, including every major  world power. Meanwhile, the U.S. remains far behind amid increasing and  blatant misinformation about the features of digital currency.

Let's talk about the EU. It is widely acknowledged that the EU has  one of the most stringent data protection regimes and protection laws  on the planet. They have strict data protections, number one, on the  GDPR, so EU citizens have access to control of their personal data.  They have the right to be forgotten, which would prevent data  surveillance and surveillance of citizens, and they have strict  penalties for companies that violate their personal data rights.

The United States could have the same in a U.S. digital currency.  There is a widening gap between the U.S. and its G7 peers, all of whom  have far more advanced CBDC projects than the U.S.

I will go back to the EU. The EU is in the final stages of a pilot  retail CBDC program already. They are so far ahead of us. They are  going to capture the future if we adopt this bill.

The U.S. Government has always led the way in harnessing technology  to promote innovation. DARPA and NASA space programs are clear examples  of what happens when the U.S. invests in research and development.

While concerns about data privacy could be real, we have the ability  to protect that data in any architecture that we adopt. It is  counterintuitive that my colleagues would be raising concerns about  data privacy while thousands of private companies are scooping up data  every single day.

Mr. Speaker, vote ``no'' on this bill.