Protecting Our Nation's Capital Emergency Act


Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I am strongly opposed to H.R. 2096, which would repeal  provisions of a law enacted by the District of Columbia. Madam Speaker,  D.C. deserves the right to govern itself. The Supreme Court has held  that Congress can delegate full legislative authority to the District  of Columbia for local matters. However, Republicans choose not to do  so.

Police officers are entrusted with extraordinary authority to protect  public safety. The vast majority of officers exercise it honorably and  bravely. However, there must be accountability and transparency for  instances in which officers violate their oath of office.

H.R. 2096 would repeal provisions of a 2023 D.C. law that made it  easier for the police department to discipline officers for crimes and  serious misconduct. Before that law, the department had been forced to  rehire a significant number of officers it had fired for crimes and  official misconduct.

Let me provide examples of the types of officers the department had  to rehire: officers convicted or arrested for child abuse, sexual  assault, indecent exposure, drunk driving causing injuries, domestic  violence, and assaults while off-duty. D.C. also had to provide  millions of dollars in backpay to those officers it was forced to  rehire. D.C. also had to pay millions of dollars to resolve police  officer misconduct lawsuits.

Before the 2023 D.C. law, every single D.C. police chief, for at  least the prior 25 years, has requested more authority to discipline  officers. H.R. 2096 would inexplicably revoke this authority. By  bringing H.R. 2096 to the floor, Republicans are declaring they know  better than the D.C. police chiefs how to run the department.

Let's hear what some of these D.C. police chiefs have had to say  about this authority. Let's start with former Chief Peter Newsham. He  said that he had to allow ``very bad police officers back into our  department.''

Former Chief Charles Ramsey said: ``It is demoralizing to the rank  and file who really do not want to have those kinds of people in their  ranks. It causes a tremendous amount of anxiety in the public. Our  credibility is shot whenever these things happen.''

Former Chief Robert Contee said that this authority would ``help  reduce the risk of returning poor performers to the force. . . . ''

Following the devastating murder of George Floyd, D.C. enacted the  Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act of 2022, which,  in pertinent part, made it easier for the police department to  discipline officers. H.R. 2096 would repeal that discipline provision  in that law.

H.R. 2096, as introduced, includes a purpose section. The purpose is  ``to combat the rise in violent crime in our Nation's Capital by  eliminating policies which place law enforcement personnel of the  District of Columbia at risk and discourage them from serving, ensuring  that such personnel will be treated equitably and fairly and the  recruitment and retention of such personnel shall be increased.'' We  are not surprised that the version of H.R. 2096 on the floor today does  not include that purpose section since it is inaccurate.

Violent crime is not rising here in D.C. In 2025, violent crime in  D.C. is down 22 percent compared to the same period in 2024. In 2024,  violent crime in D.C. was the lowest in over 30 years. Let me repeat.  Violent crime is falling in D.C. and is at a 30-year low in the  District of Columbia.

The D.C. Police Department is not alone in having difficulty in  recruiting and retaining police officers. Police departments of all  sizes across the country have had this difficulty for many years. A  survey conducted in 2019, before jurisdictions across the country  enacted police accountability and transparency legislation after the  murder of George Floyd, found ``that the difficulty in recruiting law  enforcement officers and employees is not due to one particular cause.  Rather, multiple social, political, and economic forces are all  simultaneously at play. . . . ''

H.R. 2096 would repeal four discipline provisions.

First, H.R. 2096 would repeal a provision that removed police officer  discipline for collective bargaining. Several States, including States  represented by Republicans, prohibit collective bargaining by police  officers. The 2023 D.C. law maintained the right of police officers to  collectively bargain, except over discipline, and maintained the civil  service protections and due process rights of officers.

Collective bargaining by police officers has been widely criticized  for protecting police officers from discipline. A Republican staff  report for the Joint Economic Committee said: ``Collective bargaining  plays a significant role in shielding police officers from the  consequences of their misconduct. . . . ''

Second, H.R. 2096 would reinstitute a 90-day statute of limitations  on the police department to commence discipline. The 2023 D.C. law  repealed that provision because 90 days was not enough time, in some  cases, to commence discipline. Adjudicators had overturned discipline  because the department had exceeded the 90-day statute of limitations.  There is no statute of limitations for most D.C. employees. The home  State of the sponsor of H.R. 2096 has an 18-month statute of  limitations to commence discipline against police officers.

Third, H.R. 2096 would repeal a provision that gave the police chief  the authority to increase the discipline proposed by a police trial  board, which consists of police officers. Before the 2023 D.C. law, the  police chief could only impose or reduce the proposed discipline or  order a new trial. The D.C. law increased the discipline power of the  chief and reduced the discipline power of the trial board, which may be  more inclined to protect their fellow officers from discipline.

Fourth, H.R. 2096 would repeal a provision that required the police  department to publish on a public website a schedule of officer  discipline hearings which are open to the public. The House of  Representatives itself publishes on a public website a schedule of its  committee hearings.

I close with a question and a plea. If Republicans support police  officers, why hasn't Speaker Johnson installed the plaque honoring the  brave police officers, including D.C. officers, who defended this  Capitol on January 6? Federal law requires its installation by March  15, 2023, more than 2 years ago.

That plaque in honor of officers who were killed defending the  Members of this Congress, defending this institution, is apparently  sitting in a closet. The families of those officers who were killed and  beaten that day are waiting for the due respect that is owed to their  husbands, sons, and fathers.

The more than 700,000 D.C. residents who have all the obligations of  citizenship, including paying Federal taxes and serving in our Nation's  wars, deserve voting representation in Congress and full home rule. I  call on the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 51, the Washington,  D.C. Admission Act.

Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I yield 7 minutes to the gentlewoman from  the District of Columbia (Ms. Norton).

Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I yield 6 minutes to the gentlewoman from  New Mexico (Ms. Stansbury).

Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from  Deirdre Schifeling, Anthony Romero, and Deborah Archer of the American  Civil Liberties Union in opposition to H.R. 2096.                                                      June 10, 2025.      Re Vote ``No'' on H.R. 2096 Protecting Our Nation's Capital           Emergency Act Which Would Allow Dangerous Officers Who           Have Been Terminated for Criminal Conduct or Police           Misconduct to Remain Employed as D.C. Metropolitan Police           Officers Endangering Public Safety, Evading           Accountability, and Eroding Public Trust.

Dear Representative: The American Civil Liberties Union       strongly urges you to oppose H.R. 2096 which would make it       easier for police officers accused of criminal conduct or       police misconduct to be reinstated as D.C. Metropolitan       Police Department officers. H.R. 2096 removes key polic       misconduct oversight provisions from The Comprehensive       Policing and Justice Amendment Act of 2022 which was signed       into law.

H.R. 2096 repeals key portions of current local law that       address the problems highlighted in recent D.C. Auditor's       report of officers being rehired despite being previously       terminated for police misconduct or criminal conduct.       Specifically:

1. H.R. 2096 would reinstate the ineffective, slow, and       costly arbitration process for handling cases where officers       are accused of crimes or police misconduct and face       termination of employment.

2. H.R. 2096 would place a 90-day limit on the police       department to start a disciplinary response, but this bill       does not place a time limit to take a case to arbitration.       From 2015-2021 officers who were fired and/or their       representatives allowed years to pass before bringing a case       to arbitration resulting in large awards for backpay and high       administrative costs for the District.

3. H.R. 2096 would remove the transparency requirement for       the police department to publish on a public website a       schedule of adverse action hearings in which the proposed       discipline for an officer is termination, including the date,       time, and location of the hearing, the name and badge number       of the officer, and a summary of the alleged misconduct or       charges.

4. H.R. 2096 also removes the D.C. Metropolitan Police       Chief's ability to increase proposed penalties for officers.

H.R. 2096 Will Reinstitute Closed-Door Arbitration Hearings       for Officers Accused of Criminal Conduct and Police       Misconduct, A System Which Puts Dangerous Officers Back in       the Metropolitan Police Department and Costs Taxpayers       Millions.

H.R. 2096 will institute a police officer negotiated, non-      public arbitration for cases where an officer has been or       will be fired for misconduct. This system makes it nearly       impossible to fire officers from the D.C. Metropolitan Police       who have engaged in criminal       conduct and conduct that violates civil liberties due to the       convoluted and lopsided nature of the arbitration. According       to former Metropolitan Police Department Chief Peter Newsham,       the arbitration system puts ``very bad police officers back       into our department.'' In 2022, the Office of the District of       Columbia Auditor issued a report studying the cases of       officers fired and then reinstated by the D.C. Metropolitan       Police from 2015 to 2021. Thirty-seven D.C. Metropolitan       police officers were fired for allegations criminal conduct,       civil rights violations, and officer conduct violations.       These dangerous officers were reinstated, on average, 8 years       later, and 36 of those officers were paid $14.3 million in       taxpayer dollars.

Of the 37 police officers who were terminated and then       reinstated by the closed-door arbitration system that H.R.       2096 would reinstitute, 17 (46 percent) were terminated for       police misconduct defined as `threat to safety' which meant       these officers engaged in conduct that included a risk of       harm to persons through action or inaction, such as physical       and sexual violence, mishandling firearms, or compromising       evidence related to an arrest. The other 20 officers (54       percent) were terminated for reasons such as       misrepresentation of injuries, time theft, fraud, and other       misconduct that violated the Metropolitan Police rules and       code of conduct (see below for examples from the 2022 audit       report).

H.R. 2096 Will Protect Dangerous Police Officers from Being       Fired and These Officers Will Continue Their Pattern and       Practice of Civil Liberties Violations.

Officers who were fired from the D.C. Metropolitan Police       Department for criminal conduct or police misconduct continue       their pattern of dangerous behavior and have police       misconduct complaints even after being reinstated. As of       September 2022, 15 of the 37 officers that were fired and       reinstated through the arbitration process which H.R. 2096       will reinstate are still working at the D.C. Metropolitan       Police Department. Six of the 15 officers (40 percent) had       another official misconduct complaint filed by the       Metropolitan Police Department after they were reinstated.       H.R. 2096's arbitration system encourages officers to engage       in civil rights violations against the public because       dangerous officers know they will simply be reinstated       through the arbitration process and cannot be fired.

This bill fails to learn any of the lessons of the murder       of George Floyd by police officers: officers with a pattern       of misconduct must be removed from employment, not simply       cycled back into positions of authority and control.

H.R. 2096 Will Reinstate the 8 Year Arbitration Process       That Pays Dangerous Police Officers $374,000 on Average in       Backpay and Costs the District $895,000 Annually in Personnel       Resources. H.R. 2096 does not create a timelier process for       the resolution of police misconduct cases. H.R. 2096 will       reinstate a termination process that is not public and       overseen by arbitrators. This process is heavily skewed to       protect dangerous police officers by allowing them to       capitalize on a drawn-out arbitration process that does not       set any time limits for officers to bring their case to       arbitration.

According to a 2022 Report issued by the Office of the D.C.       Auditor, from 2015 to 2021, the police officer termination       and reinstatement process lasted an average of 8 years, the       average amount of backpay the District paid to these officers       was $374,000, and the District personnel and resources spent       on these drawn-out arbitration processes totaled an estimated       $895,000 each year for a period of five years.

H.R. 2096 sets a 90-day limit on the police department to       commence corrective or adverse action against a police       officer or civilian employee but does not place any time       limits on the fired officers, or their representatives, to       bring a case to arbitration in a timely fashion. Fired       officers and their representatives have allowed years to pass       before bringing a case for arbitration creating a process       that takes, on average, 8 years before a misconduct case is       resolved resulting in costly backpay payouts for the District       of Columbia. Additionally, the 90-day time limit in this       legislation allows individuals engaged in criminal conduct to       avoid any accountability for misconduct through a technical       hurdle and one-sided timeline requirement.

The officer discipline process H.R. 2096 would reinstate       has proven to be excessively slow, a waste of taxpayer money,       and puts officers unfit to serve back in the Metropolitan       Police Department.

H.R 2096 Creates a Wall of Secrecy and Undermines Public       Transparency and Accountability.

This legislation will remove the current requirement for       the Metropolitan Police Department to publish on a public       website a schedule of adverse action hearings in which the       proposed discipline for an officer is termination, including       the date, time, and location of the hearing, the name and       badge number of the officer, and a summary of the alleged       misconduct or charges.

Public access to police misconduct information is a key       component of accountability and reduces the likelihood that       an individual engaging in criminal behavior or police       misconduct can simply resign and join another law enforcement       agency. A recent study published in The Yale Law Journal       found 800 officers in Florida who were fired, some even for       serious misconduct, and were rehired at another police       department. Police misconduct records are often inaccessible       to the individuals and communities most affected by excessive       use of force and police misconduct. H.R. 2096 would remove a       critical tool that allows for greater transparency and       accountability.

For these reasons, the ACLU strongly urges you to vote       ``NO'' on H.R. 2096. If you have any questions, please       contact Nina Patel, Senior Policy Counsel, Justice Division.            Sincerely,                                            Cynthia W. Rosebery,                                         Director, Justice Division,                                                     ACLU National.                                                     Nina Patel,                                              Senior Policy Counsel,                                                     ACLU National.                                                 Monica Hopkins,                                                 Executive Director,                                         ACLU District of Columbia.                                                 Melissa Wasser,                                              Senior Policy Counsel,                                         ACLU District of Columbia.

Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.