Recognizing National Custodian Appreciation Day


Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to rise today to recognize  school custodians on National Custodian Appreciation Day. Celebrating  the tireless work of our school custodians is immensely important, for  they are the quiet champions of our schools working diligently, day in  and day out, to ensure that our learning environments remain clean,  safe, and welcoming. They are often the first to arrive and the last to  leave, faithfully fulfilling their duties with dedication and pride.  National Custodian Day was first established in 1972, when a group of  educators and school administrators recognized the vital contributions  of custodians in creating safe and healthy spaces for students to  learn. They wanted to show appreciation for the hard work and steadfast  commitment of custodial staff to their school communities.

By 1998, custodian appreciation efforts had expanded beyond  expressions of gratitude to raise awareness about the critical role  custodians play in maintaining cleanliness, hygiene, and order in every  setting. People have begun to acknowledge the often-overlooked impact  custodial workers have on our daily lives.

Since then, custodian appreciation initiatives have continued to grow  and gain global recognition, Planned events and gestures have grown,  promoting respect and recognition, and emphasizing the significance of  the contributions of school custodians. School custodians are our  children's first line of defense against germs and illness. Through  their consistent and tireless efforts, they ensure that our schools  remain places where students can thrive. From before the first bell  rings until long after the last student leaves, custodians work to  create an environment where learning and growth can flourish.

Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize the custodians in our  schools throughout the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and the entire  United States. I ask that my colleagues in Congress and friends  throughout Massachusetts join me in celebrating school custodians on  National Custodian Appreciation Day as we honor their dedication and  their many contributions to our school communities.