-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696237/9999


Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I rise today to address the moment that we  are in here in the U.S. Senate. We are about to proceed to a vote on a  motion that the majority leader has laid on the floor.

I am the senior Democrat on the subcommittee of Appropriations that  writes the bill that funds our national defense. I have worked well and  closely with Senator McConnell in this undertaking this year. I am  about to vote no on proceeding to take up the House Defense bill, which  may surprise some of my colleagues from both parties or my constituents  or folks who are wondering: What the heck is going on here? So I wanted  to take a few minutes and speak to this moment, my vote, and hopefully  our path forward.

Americans care deeply about security--about the security that comes  from knowing that you and your family won't suddenly be bankrupted by  unexpected healthcare costs, the loss of health insurance, and the  security that comes from knowing that millions of highly skilled,  trained, and dedicated American men and women are on the line around  the world, shoulder to shoulder with our allies, defending America's  security and that of the world, and we need a path towards addressing  both.

The Federal Government is currently shut down. It is shut down  because we can't come to an agreement here in the Senate, with the  President, and with the House to deal with the expiring Affordable Care  Act tax credits that make it affordable.

Letters are about to go out in my home State of Delaware that will  tell folks who get their health insurance through the Affordable Care  Act that their rates are going to go up dramatically--in many cases,  more than 100 percent--because of expiring tax credits.

Well, what has that got to do with national defense? Bluntly, the  process here in this Senate, the process with our President, and the  process of spending or not spending appropriated funds has destroyed a  lot of the trust that is essential for the Senate as a body to work,  for the Congress to legislate, and for our Federal Government to  reopen.

In the last Congress, I was the chair of the subcommittee that wrote  the appropriations bill. Roughly, $32 billion went to USAID--an Agency  that no longer exists. Some of you may remember DOGE--an Elon Musk-led  effort to get into and tear up and, in the case of USAID, to tear apart  our longstanding, decades-old, U.S. foreign assistance program. It did  a lot more damage than just that.

In many ways, the actions that began in January and picked up speed  in the spring caused alarm and concern by many of us in the Senate that  we have an OMB Director and an administration willing to violate  bipartisan agreements from the last Congress, commitments to spend  money, and contracts and agreements with partners and allies around the  world and across many different areas.

In fact, just yesterday, a Federal district court judge in California  ruled that the reductions in force--the layoffs, the RIFs--announced by  the administration during this current shutdown were illegal because  they were targeted and partisan.

So many things have happened this year that it is tough to keep  track, but the combination of them has led to a reduction in trust  between our two caucuses--trust that is essential to having an  understanding and an agreement to move forward.

Let me be clear about this year's appropriations process. It was  positive from when we started in March-April to when we concluded on  the committee in July and voted out eight strong, bipartisan bills. The  Senate appropriations process for at least eight of the bills--the  biggest bills--was constructive and bipartisan. In fact, the bill that  I worked on closely with Senator McConnell was voted out of the  committee by 26 to 3. So, too, were other key bills that deal with  housing, that deal with education, and that deal with healthcare. They  came out of the committee 26 to 3 and are ready for action on the floor  of the Senate. Yet we are not proceeding to them today.

There are four bills remaining in committee that are unaddressed, and  the committee should focus on them, take them up, and work them  through. There are three bills that have already passed the Senate and  are all but done being conferenced with the House.

What I have heard from my Republican colleagues is that Leader Thune  is trying to move ahead with a process that would put the Defense bill,  the Health and Education bill, the Housing and Transportation bill,  which we call Labor-HHS, and T-HUD--very compelling names, I know--he  wants to put together a package of many of these bills. Well, if that  is the intention, we need communication between our leaders and our  caucuses.

We have had a positive and productive process in Senate  appropriations this year, but the leader's motion to go to the House  Defense bill was not expected, was not discussed, and was not clear to  my caucus as to what happens next. So it is with some real regret that  I will vote no today but will continue to talk with my colleagues about  how do we move forward.

I want to take a moment and just speak to the Defense bill that we  have worked so hard on and that came out of the committee with such  strong bipartisan support. It would provide a better quality of life to  the men and women of the American military and their families. It would  invest, in total, $852 billion in our national defense--expanding  shipyards, expanding munition production, creating stockpiles of  critical weapons that we know we need for the future, investing in  cutting-edge technologies--and would reject some of the Trump budget  cuts in aid to Ukraine, to Taiwan, and to our Baltic allies, who are  making positive progress in key areas.

Our work together on this bill has generally been a positive  experience between Senators and our staffs. Our challenge was the  Department, and it was the Secretary and his budgeteers, who often  appeared at hearings and meetings without their homework done, without  the details ready, without a budget ready to go.

Some of you may have forgotten this, but a principal focus of the  administration and the majority here during this same time was the so- called Big Beautiful Bill and trying to put $160 billion onto the  Defense Department not through regular order and not through the usual  budget processes but through this one-time infusion of cash.

Senator McConnell and I historically haven't agreed on much, but we  certainly have agreed on this in hearings and in speeches: If we are  trying to invest in the future of our Armed Forces, whether it be new  planes, new ships, new systems, or new technology, doing it with 1-year  money is unwise and unsound.

We need to get back to regular order. We need to get back to a  reliable and predictable appropriations process. In order to do that,  we need bipartisan agreement that rejects severe cuts; that restores  funding for programs like the NIH and the CDC, which is done in the  bipartisan Labor-H bill; and that rejects cuts to WIC and rural  housing, which is done in the Ag bill. We need to move these bills  forward.

The way we move these bills forward is by linking arms and making it  clear: We reject rescissions. We want to appropriate beyond just  defense. We want a broader package and to have clarity from our  President, the House, and the Senate about how we address the imminent  health security crisis that confronts millions of Americans and, for  today and tomorrow, keeps our government shut down.

Americans care about security. We care about security for our  families from healthcare costs, and we care about security for our  Nation from the threats that are greater than at any time in my adult  life.

Let's find a path toward working together to address them.