Government Funding


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695942/government-funding


Mr. COONS. Madam President, I am asking why we are here--why we are  here on the floor of the Senate as the hours tick down to the end of  the Federal fiscal year and the shutdown of the Federal Government.

I have served here 15 years. I have seen my share of shutdowns, and I  know how much they hurt, how much they hurt the men and women of our  military, Federal law enforcement, folks who serve and protect our  country at home and abroad. And they should not have to wonder when or  if they will get paid.

A shutdown isn't good for our reputation abroad and our cohesion at  home.

I have always worked to find some path, some deal, some way to keep  the government open, and I have talked to a dozen colleagues in recent  days about this fight and about tonight.

This is about healthcare. This is about my party saying: Enough is  enough.

We know that if you have healthcare, everything else can work itself  out. And if you don't have your health, almost nothing else matters.

President Trump ran on making America healthy again, on reducing  prices, on making life easier for the working people of our country and  their families. And, instead, what we have seen is decision after  decision, action after action by President Trump and the Republicans in  Congress that raise prices--raise prices on healthcare, on insurance,  on drugs, on medications. Whether it is the tariffs being imposed on  prescription medications or the decision to end subsidies that keep  health insurance affordable, or it is laying off thousands of  researchers working to help cure pediatric cancer or address ALS or do  research into HIV AIDS--decision after decision that moves us in  the wrong direction, that makes us sicker, poorer, and more divided.

I am usually one of the first to walk across the aisle and say: Let's  find a solution. Let's find a way out of this. And I have been doing  that in recent days, talking with colleagues. But I can't see a way  forward if we can't change direction and, together, say to the people  we serve: We want to help with your healthcare. We want to stop the  cuts to NIH and CDC. We want to reduce the increases in health  insurance costs. We want to help you and your family.

In my home State of Delaware, emergency room wait times are too long.  And as millions of Americans get thrown off of health insurance, they  are going to go to the emergency room. And those wait times will get  longer and longer for all of us.

Next month, we are going to find out how much health insurance  premiums go up. For some Americans, they are going to double. But for  all of us, they will go up.

Healthcare is getting costlier, and Americans are getting sicker. So  why am I standing on this floor tonight saying I am not voting to keep  this government open? Because enough is enough.

There are ways we can and should work together to change direction,  to put on the floor the bipartisan health appropriations bill that will  restore tens of billions of dollars to the NIH and CDC, that will stop  Trump's cuts to American healthcare and insurance and research. There  is a path toward reforming and extending the Affordable Care Act that  both parties should agree on.

But, folks, if you are listening, your Member of Congress needs to  hear from you, needs to know that you want us to work together to  reverse course and end Trump's tragic cuts to healthcare.

If my colleagues don't get those calls, they won't change direction.  If they don't change direction, we won't reopen this government.

Make no mistake, we have Republicans in control of the House and  Senate and the White House. If they want to find a way forward that  reduces the harm to Americans and our healthcare, we can. And I will be  one of the first to extend my hand to find that path.

But if we don't change direction, we shouldn't reopen this government  because Americans have taken too many hits already, too much additional  cost, too much in cuts to healthcare research, too much increase to  health insurance costs. This is a fight about America's healthcare, and  we are fighting for you.