Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700476/iran


Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I rise to talk about the human cost of war.  There is a real and a deep and a lasting cost to every armed conflict,  to every war, one paid by brave men and women around the world and by  the people who love them; one also paid, all too often, by civilians,  by families, by those considered collateral damage.

But before we launch our Nation into an intentional war of choice, we  should only ask our Armed Forces members--our soldiers, sailors, our  airmen, our marines--to take on the risks and the loss of war if we are  sure why.

It is clear today we are engaged in a war in Iran. The Trump  administration doesn't seem to be able to agree amongst themselves why.  What is the scope, what is the mission, what is the duration, what is  the cost that so many may need to bear?

At the outset, President Trump was talking regime change and urging  Iranians to rise up against the brutal and oppressive regime of the  mullahs and the Ayatollah. Now they are not mentioning regime change.

Recently, Secretary Rubio and Speaker Johnson said Israel forced our  hand, and then Trump said: No, no. We forced theirs.

There has been talk of taking out their navy, of going after  ballistic missile launchers, of preventing the resurrection of a  supposedly obliterated nuclear weapons program--but without real  clarity.

After months of planning, allegedly, there are hundreds and thousands  of Americans in the region--civilians, diplomats, families--in harm's  way with no clear path to evacuation. Our Embassies and consulates are  being bombed and attacked, a number are closed, and there has been no  compelling explanation of the urgency, of why this was imminent, of why  this body, this Senate, couldn't carry out its constitutional role and  authorize this war.

I represent Delaware. The Dover Air Force Base in the center of our  State, in our State capital, is where every American who falls in  service to our Nation first returns to our soil. And Dover has the  honor, the sacred duty, to carry out and support what are called  dignified transfers, when planes with dead Americans in flag-draped  transfer cases first come off the back of a C-17 to a waiting family  and an honor guard.

I have stood on the flight line at Dover next to President Trump,  President Biden, President Obama, and a whole range of senior military  officers as we have witnessed this grave, solemn duty. I was last there  in December with President Trump and the two Senators from Iowa as we  witnessed those Iowans who had fallen in Syria, and I soon hope to  return to be able to join in witnessing and honoring the homecoming of  CPT Cody Khork, SFC Noah Tietjens, SFC Nicole Amor, and SGT Declan  Coady.

There are two more Americans fallen so far in this war whose names  have not yet been released. All four I just named are from Iowa.

I am so grateful to the men and women of AFMAO, the Armed Forces  Mortuary Affairs Operations unit, and to Fisher House, a nonprofit,  funded special place for the families of the fallen on the grounds of  Dover Air Force Base, where those who have just learned of their deep  loss are hosted.

These are special missions and special places--the volunteers from  our community at Fisher House, the servicemembers who staff and support  AFMAO, the folks at the Personal Effects Depot who do an incredible job  preparing the remains of the fallen for return to their home States for  burial, the members of the Chaplaincy Corps, the military liaison  officers who help comfort and engage and support the families. It is  the very least we could do as a nation to respect and to honor our  brave and bold who volunteered to be a part of the greatest military in  the world.

I am always grateful when other Members of this body join for these  dignified transfers, and in the last year, two Senators from Illinois,  two Senators from Georgia, as well as Members of the House, have come  and joined in these strikingly often ceremonies.

There is a sound that a mother and a widow make when they first  recognize the movement of a flag-draped coffin holding the remains of  their loved one that you can never unhear. And that presence, that  sound, that grief, that keening into the wind should be on the  heart of every Senator, of every American leader, as we vote on whether  or not to commit our Nation's Armed Forces to war.

I come from a family with a long record of military service, back to  our Nation's first war. My brother, my sister-in-law, my father, and my  uncles all served. I grew up in a home where my father's veteran  friends visited and where I knew my brother would follow in my father's  footsteps. It seemed to me just a part of American life. And it is, in  my view, a great blessing to represent 10,000 servicemembers and their  families who are stationed at Dover Air Force Base and to have had the  opportunity to visit and to fly and to support the crews of the C-17s  and the C-5As based at Dover and to see how much they have done around  the world to reequip and support our troops, to support our partners  and allies, to deliver badly needed relief. In the case of disasters,  they carry out an incredible mission.

I can only imagine the heartsick feeling of knowing on the news that  there are six fallen Americans but not yet knowing who and wondering if  that terrible knock will come on your door, whether in Dover, DE, or  any other American base.

We should be careful about opening a door into chaos in the Middle  East when we can't see the other side of it. We should not take our men  and women into war without clear plans, without clear purposes.

With our bases now under continuous fire, our President talked  casually the other day about how he has been through so much. He has  refused to rule out sending boots on the ground to Iran, has made it  clear he understands there will be casualties--maybe many, many more-- and says that death in war is just part of the way it is.

These six fallen so far and two dozen more severely injured have  sacrificed for our Nation.

Those honored dead gave the last full measure of devotion for us, and  we owe them and their families that same respect.

Earlier today, just 2 hours ago on this floor, we voted on whether to  proceed to a War Powers Resolution, and I voted yes. I voted to rein in  this reckless war of choice. At the very least, what we owe our  servicemembers is a debate, a public briefing, an explanation, an  accounting of why this war and what its ends are.

Just last week during the President's State of the Union Address at  the other end of this building in the House Chamber, I sat respectfully  as President Trump spoke for nearly 2 hours on every imaginable  subject, but he spent just 3 minutes on Iran.

For the strengths and weaknesses of President Bush and the approach  that led to the Iraq war, I will at least say this: There was briefing  after briefing, debate after debate, and a vote in this Chamber to  authorize that war as the Constitution requires.

That is not happening now. It is not happening here, and it should.

So to the families of the fallen, to the men and women of our Nation  who are in that 1 percent who serves and stands in harm's way, know  that your Nation mourns with you and honors you. Proverbs teaches that:

The memory of the righteous is a blessing.

We hold the memory of these beloved fallen in our hearts, and I pray  that the Lord will comfort those who mourn, bind up their wounds, and  heal their heartbreak. I pray that God grants us all the grace to find  a path forward together where more do not needlessly join those who  have already fallen in this new war in the Middle East.