Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Interim Guidance Simplifying Application of the


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699917/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-internal-revenue-service-relating-to-interim-guidance-simplifying-application-of-the


Mr. COONS. Mr. President, yesterday, the People's Republic of China  sentenced Jimmy Lai to 20 years in a Chinese prison.

His crime? Freedom. He was an outspoken, pro-democracy journalist,  and he was jailed for his reporting on government.

At 78 years old, Jimmy Lai will likely die in jail. This is a tragedy  for freedom in Hong Kong and the People's Republic of China--and one  that reminds us that the work of liberty, the work of freedom, the  sacrifice and the struggle required to maintain it are not cheap.

Our Nation was built on a yearning for the kind of freedom from  government repression and overreach that Jimmy Lai stood up against.  And our democracy rests on a lot of different foundations, but at the  core of all of it is a restraint on government power.

A democracy rooted in free speech, freedom of worship, freedom of  assembly, and a chance to have and hold our own ideas, to pursue our  own dreams and our own lives, has also built strong bonds with allies  around the world--bonds that have helped keep us safe and made us  prosperous for decades.

We have had dark chapters in our history, certainly: the McCarthy  era, the Red Scare, periods when we were not as committed to free  speech as we might be. But, historically, we have not persecuted and  jailed those journalists who dared challenge the government.

And so I chose to speak today partly because of the event of Jimmy  Lai being sentenced and partly because of a growing concern that we are  at risk of wasting, of watching slip from our grasp, that most precious  inheritance that our Nation has earned: a hard-won, hard-fought legacy  of millions who stepped forward and served on behalf of our Nation at  home and abroad in defense of democracy--millions who have said: I will  risk it all so that my children and the children of others I don't know  and will never know may live free.

From the very first shots at Lexington and Concord to the fields of  Gettysburg and Vicksburg, to the beaches of Normandy and Iwo Jima, to  the sands of Southwest Asia and Afghanistan and Iraq, across the  centuries, Americans have fought and served in defense not of an  ethnicity, not of a religion, not of a language but of an idea--an idea  that out of many, we could be one; that out of an incredible array of  backgrounds, of languages, of faiths, of ethnicities, we could forge in  the modern world the first real democracy since ancient times.

I have an ancestor who served at Antietam and Chattanooga and  Gettysburg, who signed up as a young lieutenant and served through the  whole duration of the Civil War with the New York 60th Infantry. And on  a bipartisan visit by a group of Senators to that Gettysburg  battlefield, I was challenged to think anew about what it meant that  50,000 Americans were the casualties of that pivotal conflict on the  fields at Gettysburg.

President Lincoln, months after, spoke in dedicating the cemetery at  Gettysburg. At that point, it was ``four score and seven years ago.''  Today, it would be 12 score and 10 years ago because we, this year,  celebrate 250 years since the founding of our Republic through the  Declaration of Independence in Philadelphia.

I have often asked myself: If I served in this body, in this Chamber,  if I served in the Senate of the United States in the 1840s and 1850s  and 1860, would I have seen what was coming? If I had been a member of  this body in the thirties, would I have seen what was coming?

And, in recent days, I have been chilled when watching a parade in  Beijing where Xi Jinping, the dictator of the PRC, assembled the  leaders of North Korea, Iran, India, and other allies of theirs to  watch a parade of state-of-the-art weaponry. It reminded me of similar  moments in the late 1930s, when the fascist states of Germany and Italy  teamed up with the imperialist state of Japan to form the Axis and to  plunge the world into chaos.

I have often asked myself: Would I have seen and known what was  around the bend, what was happening next?

Well, to know the future, you need to know the past, and I have  reflected a lot, recently, on the words spoken by President Lincoln in  commemorating the sacrifice of those who served at Gettysburg. He said  that it was an active question, that the point of the conflict was to  answer whether a nation ``conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the  proposition that all men are created equal'' could ``long endure.''  That was a question we have had to fight for, we have had to struggle  for, and that is right before us today.

It goes back to the Framers in our founding. Federalist 51 is where  Madison wrote:

If men were angels, no government would be necessary.

And so they came up with a structure, the separation of powers.

Our Constitution has often been remarked upon as the greatest piece  of political architecture in human history because it kept the power of  the executive and the judiciary and the legislative branches separate  so that each might check the ambition of the other--all of this in  pursuit of the restraint of power.

Yet, as I have watched in the last year the remarks and the actions  of our President and Vice President, they are chillingly rhyming with  those of dictators like President Xi and President Putin of the PRC and  Russia--the growing and steady use of unrestrained state power to  punish the President's perceived enemies. And I am wrestling with a  growing sense of gloom, of concern, of alarm that a similar story will  play out in our Nation today as it is in other countries around the  world.

In barely more than a year, we have seen journalists covering  protests arrested. We have seen masked and unaccountable government  agents murder American citizens and then senior members of the  administration lying about who they were and what they were doing. We  have seen the administration sue media organizations and reporters--not  just a few: Washington Post, ABC, BBC, New York Times, Des Moines  Register--sue media outlets to cow them into compliance; using the  power of the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Communications  Commission--the FTC to investigate media matters, violating their First  Amendment rights in an effort to bankrupt them, and using FCC broadcast  licenses to dictate who gets to be on late-night TV based on whether  the President thinks they are funny or not; steady pressure applied on  an incredible range of fronts and with a dizzying change in tempo and  focus so that we are distracted. This week, it is Jimmy Kimmel. This  week, it is Venezuela. This week, it is the FTC. This week, it is going  after Harvard.

Our President declared war on law firms: revoked security clearances,  threatened their viability by taking away their capacity to walk into  Federal buildings, ending Federal contracts. Why? Because if you can  control who a law firm is willing to represent, you can suppress  dissent.

Some of our Nation's most reputable and accomplished firms--Perkins  Coie, Jenner & Block, WilmerHale--investigated, denied access, sued for  representing the President's opponent in the 2016 election, for  representing a major philanthropist, George Soros, for representing  those who would advocate on behalf of trans children, for representing  Robert Mueller. The point here was to make it clear: If you pick a  lawyer the state doesn't like, your rights are in jeopardy.

Sound familiar?

The administration has gone after some of our Nation's best known,  longest established universities, among our very oldest--Harvard, Penn,  Duke, Brown, Columbia--revoking funding, conducting investigations,  shutting down partnerships, depleting their endowments, coercing  compliance.

Even major businesses have been dragged before the White House and  pushed to comply with the administration's agenda--from Apple, to  Exxon, to Nvidia--summoned to the White House, pressured to avoid  disfavor or bad regulatory decisions; suing a globally known company  like Nike for choosing to have a diversity program.

Where is the alarm and the concern from the Chamber of Commerce, the  Business Roundtable, the National Association of Manufacturers, those  who have stood up in the past against Federal overreach by previous  administrations?

Executive branch Agencies and regulators of independent agencies post  that their reviews and approvals will depend on companies' conduct and  whether they align with the administration's agenda. This undermines  the very foundations of rule of law that undermine capitalism itself.

Something that has alarmed me more than any development in recent  days: criminalization of the dissenters and disfavored, including  Members of this body--Senators who are veterans, who have served in our  intelligence services or as an astronaut and a pilot in combat--for  recording a video reminding members of our military that they can  refuse an illegal order; Members of the Senate and House investigated  for seditious behavior, which our President claims is punishable by  death.

Many of my colleagues have said: Pay no attention to what the  President says; pay attention to what he does.

I will say: I am paying attention to what he is doing because, in  addition to a steady stream of late-night rants on social media, we  have seen actions--actions--by Federal Agencies: investigations,  prosecutions, persecution, labeling protesters as domestic terrorists,  reclassifying dissent as something punishable by law.

In an event just last week, our President spoke at the Prayer  Breakfast and said, ``I don't know how a person of faith can vote for a  Democrat'' and then said jokingly, ``[I]f you do say something bad  about Trump . . . I will have your tax-exempt status . . . revoked.''  Who does that? Who threatens faith leaders from across our Nation with  revoking their tax-exempt status?

I was in Europe with a bipartisan delegation from this body just 2  weeks ago visiting our trusted, loyal NATO ally Denmark, as they were  alarmed about the rising tide of threats from our President to extract  the territory of Greenland from their nation.

This coming weekend and week, I will travel to the annual Munich  Security Conference, which my friend and late colleague Senator John  McCain helped build up into a critical gathering of the North Atlantic  community, of NATO allies, of Ministers of Defense, heads of state,  parliamentarians from all over the world, principally focused on the  alliances rooted in values that have kept us safe, prosperous, and  free. And I know what I will hear from our allies--that they are  gravely concerned that the values that connect us are slipping away.

Last year, I had the blessing, the honor, of meeting again with Yulia  Navalny, whose husband, an advocate for democracy in Russia, died in a  Russian prison. Yulia will once again speak with us as a delegation  about the cost of freedom.

What gave me hope last year at this conference was a panel I  participated in with three legislators from three other countries-- young women serving in the legislative bodies of Ghana, of Burma, and  of Poland--fighting for democracy in their countries, not because they  look to the United States as the perfect example but because they know  the profound human hunger for freedom--the legislator from Burma now  serving in exile; the legislators from Ghana and from Poland having  worked hard to resist corruption, oppression, state power, looking,  yes, to America's example but, frankly, charting their own course  because they know that the future for their children and their families  and their nations lies on a better path when liberty and justice for  all is at the core of their cause and their purpose.

As I travel to Munich again, I will be joining a bipartisan group  under the name ``Codel McCain'' because even after he has passed, we  continue to honor our former colleague, who spent so much of his time  in a prison in Vietnam, knowing that at any day, he could raise his  hand and be released but refusing to dishonor the code under which he  served.

Senator McCain said in one of his last speeches that the current  President seems to be trading away the ideals that have held together  our Nation ``for the sake of some half-baked spurious nationalism  cooked up by people who would rather find scapegoats than solve  problems.''

Well, we can't let that happen for all of those like Senator McCain  and Senator Kerry and Senator Carper, veterans of that war. And now we  are joined by veterans of our most recent wars. For all of those who  have served at home and abroad--first responders, law enforcement,  teachers, community leaders, doctors--all those who put their heart and  time and effort into making America the democracy worthy of the regard  of the world, we need to be clear that the hour is late, that the skies  are darkening, that the steady advance of the grip of state power  should alarm all of us.

Lincoln concluded his remarks at Gettysburg saying:

We here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died       in vain--that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth       of freedom.

We have to do that again today: Call out the alarm, call out these  actions, renew our commitment to the ideals that have made our Nation  great, refuse to give up on our alliances rooted in values and ask the  world not to give up on us, and keep fighting back against those who  would strip us of our liberties and our freedoms.