Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696488/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I have a brief question for this body  before I proceed to my motion: What is it that keeps our Nation secure?  It is millions of Armed Forces, Active-Duty Reserves, National Guard,  civilians supporting them, the Department of Defense, the Coast Guard,  the intelligence Agencies; they are keeping us safe now, like all  Federal employees, not knowing when they will get another paycheck.

Our military is less than 1 percent of our Nation. That is how many  people sign on the dotted line up to and including their lives to keep  us safe. They put their lives on the line to secure liberty and  security, and I am grateful to the thousands serving today at Dover Air  Force Base, the Delaware National Guard, and throughout our Armed  Forces.

They and their families deserve the same devotion to them that they  are providing to us.

I come from a military family. My father, brother, sister-in-law,  uncles all served in the Army, and my father long said he first really  understood what it means to be an American when he was responsible for  others and others' lives when deployed.

Taking care of them is our sacred obligation. So while we keep  fighting for better healthcare, more affordable healthcare for all  Americans, my bill will pay our Armed Forces now.

It will pay Active-Duty, Reserves, National Guard, Coast Guard,  civilians at the Pentagon, and intelligence Agencies, and give those  who keep us safe, often at great sacrifice, a small piece of security  in return.

3079 introduced earlier today; that the  bill be considered read three times and passed, and the motion to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I want to convey my thanks, my gratitude to  the chair of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, my colleague and  friend from Kentucky. We and our staffs have had a genuinely  constructive and positive process in appropriations this year.

Frankly, overall, the Senate Appropriations Committee has worked  well. We have passed out of committee a significant number of major  bills by big bipartisan margins--26 to 3 in the case of our bill and  the Labor, Health and Human Services bill. But there is a stark  contrast between the real progress we are making on appropriations and  the lack of progress on addressing the core issue of can Americans  afford their healthcare.

Of course, I want to move ahead and appropriate, as my colleague from  Kentucky has indicated. Of course, we need to do our job and  appropriate, for this body to carry out and to continue its core  article I responsibility. But part of what has got us to this moment is  a vote earlier this year on the Big Beautiful Bill in July to destroy  healthcare for millions of Americans.

We need to find a path forward toward ensuring that millions of  Americans do not lose insurance through the Affordable Care Act and  Medicaid, something that will raise insurance costs for everyone and  that will increase ER wait times in my State and in every other.

This Saturday, 20 million Americans will see how much their premiums  go up. And if the calls that come into my colleagues are anything like  the calls I am getting, there will be then an accelerated motion toward  resolving this issue and moving forward with appropriations.

I will close by just citing one conversation I had yesterday.

I spoke with a small business owner from Delaware. Her name is Jan.  She is a stage IV cancer survivor. She is a small business owner.

She told me yesterday that, without the Affordable Care Act, she  would have died 10 years ago because insurance would have dropped her.  And if her rates double, she will need to close her business of 30  years.

This is one of many stories of entrepreneurs and families, of  veterans, of servicemembers, of constituents that have reached out to  me.

There is an urgency about reopening the government--yes, I agree--and  an urgency about finding a path forward on healthcare. We should be  negotiating both now.