Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025


Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairwoman Craig for her  excellent leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the bipartisan CLARITY Act. This  bill was made possible through a bipartisan effort that I was very  proud to help lead with Chairman Hill and Congressman Steil. It is an  important one because one-fifth of Americans own crypto. My State, New  Jersey, proportionally ranks second nationwide in ownership of  cryptocurrency.

While cryptocurrency has tremendous economic potential, we  desperately need rules of the road to protect consumers, ensure the  success of American entrepreneurs, and ensure that America leads the  way, not other nations around the world, but that America leads the way  in this growing space.

The CLARITY Act takes commonsense steps to make crypto work for  everyday users, including measures to stop snake oil salesmen,  fraudsters, and hucksters, and puts the Trump family's coins under  regulation.

This legislation supports American-led innovation by encouraging  developers and entrepreneurs to build, invest, and create jobs in our  country.

Finally, this bill gives clarity to the SEC's and CFTC's roles in  crypto to work together efficiently and to crack down on scammers and  criminal activity. After years of uncertainty, it finally says who  should oversee what, so that people in this space understand the  direction it is going in and understand who is going to oversee what,  so that consumers can be protected. I can't say that enough.

Do we want this to continue to be the Wild West with uncertainty, or  do we want to have clear rules of the road to protect consumers? Do we  want to do something or nothing? Is it perfect? As you have heard  today, no, it is not perfect. Few pieces of legislation we bring here  are.

The questions are: Will it do good? Will it make sure that we look  after people who are involved in this space? Will it ensure that  America succeeds and grows? Those are the questions.

To do nothing means that we will ensure that Trump's coin has no  oversight. Why would we want that? We will ensure that no consumer is  protected if we do nothing. We want to protect American consumers. That  is our job. This legislation does that.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this critical  commonsense, bipartisan legislation.