Small Entity Update Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693959/small-entity-update-act


Mr. Speaker, if appropriate, this bill directs the SEC to carry out a  study in rulemaking on its definitions of small entities under the  Regulatory Flexibility Act. This study in rulemaking would ensure that  the commission more carefully accounts for impacts on small businesses  when engaging in rulemaking.

The Regulatory Flexibility Act provides small entities with a greater  opportunity to participate in the development of certain regulations  and will result in more small businesses being included in the  definition of small entities under the act. In effect, it gives them a  louder voice when it comes to development of SEC regulations that  directly apply to them.

Democrats worked to secure important language, ensuring investor  protection remains a key focus of the bill. It balances the needs of  facilitating capital formation and, of course, protecting our small  businesses, which are so critical and are the lifeblood of our country  and the jobs in our country.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Wagner) for  agreeing to these changes when this bill was marked up in committee.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Again, I thank the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Wagner) for her  leadership. I also thank the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Hill), the  chairman, for his leadership and friendship. I am very grateful.

Small businesses make up the backbone of our Nation's economy.  Congress and the SEC should do everything within their power to support  small businesses and to ensure that the laws and rules they draft  adequately take their capital needs into consideration.

This bill gives small businesses a bigger say in how SEC rules and  regulations impact them and will allow them to continue to thrive.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.