Semiquincentennial Congressional Time Capsule Act


Mrs. BICE. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (S. 3705) to provide for the creation of a congressional time  capsule in commemoration of the semiquincentennial of the United  States, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  S. 3705

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Semiquincentennial       Congressional Time Capsule Act''.       SEC. 2. SEMIQUINCENTENNIAL CONGRESSIONAL TIME CAPSULE.

(a) Creation by Architect of the Capitol.--The Architect of       the Capitol shall create a congressional time capsule, to be       known as the ``Semiquincentennial Congressional Time       Capsule'' (in this Act referred to as the ``Time Capsule'').

(b) Contents.--

(1) Determination by congressional leadership.--The Office       of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Office of the       Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Office of       the Majority Leader of the Senate, and Office of the Minority       Leader of the Senate shall jointly determine the contents of       the Time Capsule, taking into account the requirements of       paragraph (2).

(2) Contents.--

(A) In general.--The contents of the Time Capsule shall       include--

(i) a single, joint letter from the offices described in       paragraph (1); and

(ii) any other item that the offices described in paragraph       (1) jointly determine appropriate.

(B) Limitations.--Any item included in the Time Capsule       under subparagraph (A)--

(i) shall be made of materials that pose a low risk of       degrading, such as metal or archival paper; and

(ii) shall not be made of any organic or inorganic material       that poses a high risk of degrading.

(3) Size.--The Time Capsule shall be not more than 50       inches wide, 32 inches deep, and 48 inches high.

(4) Consultation.--In carrying out this subsection, the       offices described in paragraph (1) may consult with the       Architect of the Capitol, the Secretary of the Smithsonian       Institution, and such other entities of the Federal       Government as the offices consider appropriate.

(c) Duties of Architect.--The Architect of the Capitol       shall--

(1) prepare the Time Capsule to be sealed and buried in the       Capitol Visitor Center, at a location specified by the       Architect, with the approval of the Committee on Rules and       Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House       Administration of the House of Representatives, on or before       July 4th, 2026, at a time which would permit individuals       attending this event to also attend the burial of a time       capsule in Independence Mall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,       under section 7(f)(1) of the United States Semiquincentennial       Commission Act of 2016 (36 U.S.C. 101 note prec.); and

(2) install a plaque to provide such information about the       Time Capsule as the Architect, with the approval of the       Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the       Committee on House Administration of the House of       Representatives, considers appropriate.

(d) Unsealing.--The Time Capsule shall be sealed until July       4th, 2276, on which date the Speaker of the House of       Representatives and the Majority Leader of the Senate shall       present the Time Capsule to the 244th Congress, and such       Congress shall determine how the contents within should be       preserved or used.

Mrs. BICE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, today I urge my colleagues to support S. 3705, the  Semiquincentennial Congressional Time Capsule Act. This is the Senate  companion to H.R. 6243, introduced by my colleagues, Representatives  Bonnie Watson Coleman,   Robert Aderholt, Maria Salazar, and Dwight  Evans.

This nonpartisan legislation would authorize the burial of a time  capsule in the Capitol Visitor Center to mark the 250th anniversary of  our Nation's independence.

This time capsule is one way that Congress will participate in the  Nation's yearlong celebration of liberty and independence. Amidst our  toughest challenges of the day, this legislation reminds us that we can  all work together.

Under this bill, leaders from both parties will work alongside the  Architect of the Capitol to compile the capsule's contents. This will  include a letter from congressional leadership, books, manuscripts,  relics, memorabilia, and more. I am optimistic that the contents of  this capsule will reflect what makes this country great, as well as the  challenges we faced during this time.

The capsule will remain sealed until July 4th, 2276, and the burial  site will be marked by a plaque approved by the Committee on House  Administration and the Senate Rules and Administration Committee.

I thank the ranking member, Mr. Morelle, for working with me on this  effort.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mrs. BICE. Madam Speaker, I want to mention, my colleague, Mr.  Morelle, referenced opening the capsule in 2276, and I, too, would love  to see the contents, although I do wonder if our future colleagues will  look at the contents and think: Why did they put books in here? That is  because it may be a little technologically behind by the time it is  opened.

Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman  from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt), who is my fellow appropriator.

Mrs. BICE. Madam Speaker, I could not have said it any better myself.  I urge my colleagues to support S. 3705, and I yield back the balance  of my time.