Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of 2025


Mrs. BICE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the  Unlocking Our Domestic LNG Potential Act, which will support a robust  natural gas industry in the U.S. and meet President Trump's goal of  achieving American energy dominance.

Natural gas is a major engine of economic growth, particularly in  Oklahoma. LNG exports alone in the U.S. support more than 273,000 U.S.  jobs and contribute $40 billion to our GDP.

This sector is a lifeline for communities across the country,  including Oklahoma's Fifth Congressional District, and we must ensure  it has a stable framework to reach its full potential.

LNG exports are also a win for the environment. A recent S&P Global  study found that U.S. LNG exports reduce global greenhouse gas  emissions by 65 million tons. Anyone serious about lowering global  emissions should strongly support the expansion of American LNG.

Yet, despite this abundance of benefits, President Biden chose to  unilaterally ban the issue of LNG export permits. While this was  overturned by a court, if approval for export is determined by  political appointees at the Department of Energy, the threat of a  future ban from a progressive Presidential administration remains in  place. Turning these decisions over to a neutral party, like the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, will ensure the industry is kept  safe from such reckless attacks in the future.

Some argue that LNG exports raise energy prices for Americans by  reducing domestic supply. This claim is simply false. Increased export  opportunities incentivize production and drive efficiency gains, which  will help domestic prices continue to be affordable.

Given the abundance of economic and environmental benefits from LNG  exports, I believe it is critical that we help protect the industry  from misguided political attacks such as those made by the Biden  administration last year.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in favor of  this legislation.