Informing Consumers About Smart Devices Act


Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the good chairman of the  Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 859, Informing Consumers  About Smart Devices Act. This bill would require manufacturers of  internet-connected so-called smart appliances to disclose to consumers  prior to purchase when their product is equipped with a camera or  microphone.

Manufacturers today produce appliances that connect to software  applications that can be set, managed, and monitored through one's  computing device. They are designed to capture voice commands from  around the vicinity, recording information to adapt to the way  individuals give commands. They are also often equipped with cameras to  capture QR codes or other specific information particular to that  appliance.

While the intention may strictly be for convenience, consumers need  to be aware that private information may be captured by a smart  appliance. We need to ensure proper disclosure and consumer awareness  of these features.

It is also important to note that the bill's disclosure requirement  only applies to appliances we wouldn't otherwise expect to be equipped  with a camera or a microphone. For example, devices like mobile phones,  laptops, and tablets would not have this requirement.

Put bluntly, our stoves or refrigerators shouldn't be secretly  recording conversations in our homes. Such information could be  accessed by a hacker or nefarious third party. Audio or video data of  personally identifiable or confidential information could be stolen  and/or used without the owner's knowledge. That could lead to scams or  other kinds of harms.

People need to know all the functionalities of their appliances  before bringing them home. This bill makes that possible.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative Seth Moulton, for  co-leading this bipartisan effort. I urge support for this legislation.