Reducing and Eliminating Duplicative Environmental Regulations Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701789/reducing-and-eliminating-duplicative-environmental-regulations-act


Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6398, the RED  Tape Act.

In my home State of Idaho, we have more than 34 million acres of  federally controlled land. I just want to put that in perspective for a  minute. My good friend on the other side of the aisle is from the great  State of New Jersey. You can put more than six New Jerseys just within  the Federal land mass in the State of Idaho. That is how big it is.

Why is that pertinent here? It is pertinent because, with that much  land mass, you have a seemingly endless flow of processes going on from  departments or agencies for approvals for one thing or another: energy  impact statements, the NEPA process. Everything ongoing all the time  takes years each time.

We had a recent situation with a wind farm project in my home State.  Regardless of what you think about wind farms, this was just an actual  occurrence. There was a long process of approval where an EIS, an  environmental impact statement, was required, and the EPA was a part of  that statement every step of the way, running in parallel as part of  that EIS. As soon as that was completed by mandate, the EPA had to go  back and publicly comment on the process it just went through itself.

That is just one example, Mr. Speaker, of the duplicative situation  that we have. This is really problematic when you have a lot of these  projects going on. In my home State, that is a prime example.

All the RED Tape Act does is eliminates that duplicative mandate.  There is still the process. We are still going through all the areas of  concern. It just eliminates the duplication of it.

Mr. Speaker, I would just add, as I close, that this is potentially  even more important now than ever before, to make this easier to deal  with, because our energy needs as a country are taking a hockey stick  in the demand curve. It is only going one way.

So much of the energy needs have to go through these processes. A lot  of it is coming right out of my home State. We see this as a real  problem. Again, I rise in support of H.R. 6398, and I encourage my  colleagues to do the same.