World War II Women's Memorial Location Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697728/world-war-ii-womens-memorial-location-act


Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, today I am privileged to speak on the  bipartisan World War II Women's Memorial Location Act. World War II  required great sacrifices of every American citizen. To the great  credit and pride of our Nation, American citizens rose to the challenge  with grit and determination. With millions of men overseas, American  women--popularly known as ``Rosies'' in tribute to Rosie the Riveter-- stepped into roles traditionally held by men. These women answered the  call to service by holding down the home front, working as pilots,  engineers, electricians, mechanics, and more. 18 million women answered  the call of their Nation in its time of desperate need. The impact they  had on our country cannot be overstated. In Idaho, civilian women  worked and volunteered at the Farragut Naval Training Station located  in North Idaho, which was built shortly after the attack on Pearl  Harbor and became the second-largest naval training base in the  country. Their presence was felt across every state, in countless  shipyards, factories, farms, and ranches.

Despite their monumental contributions, we still lack an independent,  prominent memorial in Washington, D.C. honoring these patriots. There  is urgency to pass this bill so that living Rosies can see their legacy  commemorated in their lifetime and so the memorial can fold into the  broader America250 effort. The memorial's construction will be funded  entirely through private donations and won't use taxpayer dollars. The  amount of work and dedication the WWII Women's Memorial Foundation has  poured into this project clearly illustrates its importance.

Not only will this memorial honor the women of World War II, the  memorial will serve the important purpose of inspiring Americans to  embrace service to their country and contribute to our Nation's  success. I urge the passage of the World War II Women's Memorial  Location Act.