Cloture Motion


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I come to the floor this afternoon to  join a number of my colleagues because time is of the essence. If  Congress doesn't act to extend tax credits for the cost of health  insurance, millions of Americans are going to lose their coverage and  many more could see their costs go up by as much as 75 percent. And  that is on top of the most recent inflation data that shows our economy  is headed in the wrong direction.

Despite those numbers, everything that we have seen from this  administration--from its tariff policy raising prices on cars to coffee  to the passage of the One Big Beautiful Bill--or betrayal, as I call  it--that ripped Medicaid away from millions of Americans to finance tax  breaks for billionaires--all of those actions has made the  affordability crisis for average Americans worse. For far too many  American families, this growing affordability crisis includes the  rising cost of healthcare. We in Congress must not let these concerns  go unanswered, especially when we have the ability to act. And we have  the solution to prevent healthcare costs from skyrocketing even further  overnight.

That is why a number of my colleagues and I have worked in the Senate  to introduce bicameral legislation that would permanently extend the  enhanced premium tax credits, those benefits that allow so many  Americans--our neighbors, our small businesses, our friends--who rely  on that help to keep their premium costs low to be able to afford  health insurance.

Extending the tax credits has been a priority, and we have been  calling attention to the looming expiration of these vital tax credits  since last year. In fact, three times during this past year, my  Democratic colleagues and I have tried to pass our legislation to offer  some real relief to working families grappling with the high cost of  living. Unfortunately, our colleagues on the other side of the aisle  have blocked each and every one of these efforts.

Now, this program to provide that help that families need to cover  their cost of health insurance is set to expire at the end of the year,  and there is no plan in sight to replace it and to help families afford  health insurance. Allowing these tax credits to expire is going to harm  the record enrollment in the ACA Marketplace that so many people have  worked so hard to achieve, and this past year there has been record  enrollment in the ACA.

Now, what does it mean for Americans if we allow these tax credits to  expire? It means that 24 million Americans will see their health  insurance costs go up. It means that 4 million Americans could lose  their coverage entirely. And that is not an exaggeration because that  is based on the nonpartisan data from the Congressional Budget Office.

Now, according to a report that a number of us commissioned from the  Georgetown Center on Health Insurance Reforms, eliminating these tax  credits will disproportionately hurt older people, those who live in  rural areas, and small business owners--those people who can least  afford to pay additional costs for their health insurance. On average,  Marketplace premiums will rise by 75 percent, roughly $700 a year. That  is the biggest increase in over a decade, and this price increase  affects the very people who can least afford rising costs right now.

I spoke with one of my constituents last week, Paul from Canaan.  Canaan is a small town in the northern part of New Hampshire. He is one  of those people who we talk about and who Georgetown University Center  talked about when they talked about the impact of those cost increases  on Americans. Paul's employer-sponsored insurance would be  prohibitively expensive for him and his family. Not only that, it is  not accepted by a lot of the providers in his area. His wife also has  an autoimmune disease, and his son needs insurance coverage in order to  attend the University of New Hampshire.

So that means that those enhanced premium tax credits, the benefits  that we provided in Congress to ensure that families like Paul's could  afford their health insurance, they have been a lifeline for him. He  told me that thanks to the credits, he no longer fears that one single  emergency room visit could bankrupt his family. But sadly, without  those enhanced premium tax credits, not only Paul but millions of  Americans will have to make difficult choices about what they can live  without so they can afford health insurance. That should be  unacceptable to all of us in the United States of America.

The American people are rightfully concerned about the soaring costs  of healthcare coverage, and they are looking to Congress; they are  asking us to work together to get this done. I am here to remind all of  our colleagues--along with Senator Welch and those of us who are  speaking to this--but mostly our Republican colleagues, some of whom I  know are very aware of what an issue this is for their constituents.  They are also aware that the clock is ticking. Some Republicans in  Congress keep saying: Let's wait. We have time to deal with this later.

Unfortunately, we now know that there is a cost to waiting. Just  yesterday, the CBO, the Congressional Budget Office, estimated that if  we don't act, if we wait until the end of the year to pass an  extension, that 1.5 million more people will go uninsured, premiums  will still go up, and waiting actually costs the Federal Government an  additional $10 billion.

So for all of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle who were  so anxious to cut different aspects of our government because they want  to fund their tax decrease for the wealthiest in this country, they  ought to care about an additional $10 billion that it is going to cost  if we wait to address this issue. Waiting to act is going to leave more  Americans uninsured; it is going to cost patients more from their hard-  earned income; and it is going to be more expensive for the Federal  Government.

So while I am encouraged by some of the public reporting that several  of our Republican colleagues are interested in extending the ACA  enhanced premium tax credits, the time for us to act is now. The  President's own pollsters have warned that not extending these tax  credits would be a political catastrophe for the GOP.

I would hope that we could all agree that addressing the  affordability crisis that Americans are facing because of the  increasing costs of everything from groceries to rent to electricity  shouldn't be partisan issues.

I know there are many of our colleagues on the other side of the  aisle who understand these stakes, who are worried about what is  happening with their constituents. So let's come together. Let's  address the American people's concerns. Let's put aside the politics  and work to keep healthcare premiums affordable. Let's support the  small business owners who power local economies all across the country  and create two-thirds of the jobs in America. Let's preserve this vital  program that keeps Americans healthy and safe.

Mrs. SHAHEEN. Will my colleague yield for a question?

Mrs. SHAHEEN. I think one of the things that people don't  understand--and I don't know if you agree with me--is that what is  going on here is that as these costs go up and as it becomes harder for  people to enroll in the Affordable Care Act marketplace because of  other changes that were made in that ``Big Betrayal Bill,'' that the  risk pool--a lot of healthy people don't sign up again.

And so the risk pool includes a lot more people who are sicker, who  have illnesses. And as the insurance companies are looking at those  projections, they are saying: Well, we got to raise rates because if we  don't, we are not going to be able to cover the people that need help.  That doesn't just affect those people who have those health insurance  costs, but all of the rest of us are going to pay more for our health  insurance too.

Would you agree that is part of what is going on? That is what we  heard from Georgetown University Center on Health Insurance Reform.