S. Res. 377


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, while I voted No on S. Res. 377, which  calls for an up or down vote on 48 nominations, en bloc, I would have  voted yes on the following nominations if I had the opportunity to vote  on each nomination separately:

1. Executive Calendar #89--Jessica Kramer, of Wisconsin, to       be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection       Agency.

2. Executive Calendar #105--Dario Gil, of New York, to be       Under Secretary for Science, Department of Energy.

3. Executive Calendar #107--Brandon Williams, of New York,       to be Under Secretary for Nuclear Security.

4. Executive Calendar #123--Theodore J. Garrish, of       Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Nuclear       Energy).

5. Executive Calendar #124--Andrea Travnicek, of North       Dakota, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior.

6. Executive Calendar #132--Justin Overbaugh, of Florida,       to be a Deputy Under Secretary of Defense.

7. Executive Calendar #133--Scott Pappano, of Pennsylvania,       to be Principal Deputy Administrator, National Nuclear       Security Administration.

8. Executive Calendar #135--Michael Cadenazzi, of Rhode       Island, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense.

9. Executive Calendar #136--Sean O'Keefe, of Virginia, to       be a Deputy Under Secretary of Defense.

10. Executive Calendar #137--Michael Obadal, of Virginia,       to be Under Secretary of the Army.

11. Executive Calendar #139--Katherine Sutton, of Illinois,       to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense.

12. Executive Calendar #152--Matthew Napoli, of Virginia,       to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear       Nonproliferation, National Nuclear Security Administration.

13. Executive Calendar #153--Richard Anderson, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force.

14. Executive Calendar #156--Tina Pierce, of Idaho, to be       Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy.

15. Executive Calendar #177--Sean McMaster, of Virginia, to       be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration.

16. Executive Calendar #185--John Squires, of Florida, to       be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and       Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

17. Executive Calendar #276--Michael Dodd, of Indiana, to       be an Assistant Secretary of Defense. (New Position)

18. Executive Calendar #277--William Gillis, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army.

19. Executive Calendar #278--Jules Hurst III, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army.

20. Executive Calendar #279--Brent Ingraham, of Virginia,       to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army.

21. Executive Calendar #285--Peter Thomson, of Louisiana,       to be Inspector General, Central Intelligence Agency.

22. Executive Calendar #289--Jeffrey Bartos, of       Pennsylvania, to be Representative of the United States of       America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform,       with the Rank of Ambassador, and to serve concurrently and       without additional compensation as an Alternate       Representative of the United States of America to the       Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations.

23. Executive Calendar #290--Jennifer Locetta, of Florida,       to be Alternate Representative of the United States of       America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations,       with the rank of Ambassador, and to serve concurrently and       without additional compensation as an Alternate       Representative of the United States of America to the       Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations.

24. Executive Calendar #297--Dudley Hoskins, of the       District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture       for Marketing and Regulatory Programs.

25. Executive Calendar #298--Scott Hutchins, of Indiana, to       be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education,       and Economics.

26. Executive Calendar #305--Jovan Jovanovic, of       Pennsylvania, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of       the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2029.

27. Executive Calendar #324--Richard Fordyce, of Missouri,       to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and       Conservation.

28. Executive Calendar #344--Paul Roberti, of Rhode Island,       to be Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials       Safety Administration, Department of Transportation.

29. Executive Calendar #352--Jason Evans, of Texas, to be       an Under Secretary of State (Management).

30. Executive Calendar #356--Edward Aloysius O'Connell, of       the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the       Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of       fifteen years.

31. Executive Calendar #362--Katherine Scarlett, of Ohio,       to be a Member of the Council on Environmental Quality.

32. Executive Calendar #149--Callista Gingrich, of Florida,       to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the       United States of America to the Swiss Confederation, and to       serve concurrently and without additional compensation as       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein.

33. Executive Calendar #286--Kimberly Guilfoyle, of       Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary       of the United States of America to Greece.

34. Executive Calendar #302--Christine Toretti, of       Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and       Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the       Kingdom of Sweden.

35. Executive Calendar #350--Peter Lamelas, of Florida, to       be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Argentine Republic.