Congratulating McCutcheon High School's Mavericks Robotics Team


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690518/congratulating-mccutcheon-high-schools-mavericks-robotics-team


Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor McCutcheon High  School's Mavericks Robotics team, which won the 2025 FIRST Robotics  Competition World Championship.

The Mavericks Robotics team competed against 3,700 teams from around  the world just to clinch a spot in the world championship. Only 600 of  those teams made the cut, and this robotics team won it all.

These talented students from McCutcheon High School dedicated 17 to  20 hours a week designing, building, and marketing their robot. Each of  the students on the Mavericks Robotics team played a vital role in  their global victory, from designing aspects of the robot, computer  programming, crafting the physical build of the robot, or helping raise  money for the project. These brilliant students should be proud of this  truly outstanding accomplishment.

I congratulate the world champion McCutcheon Mavericks Robotics team.                     Recognizing Sergeant Rodney Jenkins

Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and recognize Sergeant  Rodney Jenkins, a dedicated public servant who devoted over two decades  to law enforcement in Montgomery County, Indiana.

At 19, Rodney became one of the first full-time male dispatchers at  the Montgomery County Communications Center, and his career only  flourished from there.

In 1998, Rodney Jenkins was hired as a jail officer and reserve  deputy with Montgomery County Sheriff's office.

In 2000, he was hired as a road deputy, and 9 years later, he was  promoted to sergeant.

His leadership, coupled with his dedication to both administrative  and field duties, showcases his true passion for law enforcement and  community service.

We are grateful for Sergeant Jenkins' exceptional service to our  community, and I am proud to congratulate him on his well-deserved  retirement.                        Retirement of Dr. Karen Plaut

Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Dr. Karen Plaut, the  executive vice president for research at Purdue University who recently  announced she will retire on June 30 of this year.

Dr. Plaut has a truly impressive career. Dr. Plaut attended the  University of Vermont, received her master's from Pennsylvania State  University, and received her Ph.D. in animal science from Cornell  University. She held a fellowship at the National Cancer Institute at  NIH and led breast cancer research at the University of Vermont.

Dr. Plaut then joined NASA and served as the lead scientist for the  International Space Station Biological Research Project, working with  engineers to build life science habitats for zero gravity.

Dr. Plaut joined Purdue University in 2010 and became executive vice  president in 2023.

I wish Dr. Plaut the best of luck and congratulate her on her well- earned retirement.                        Recognizing Dr. John Scamahorn

Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor fellow Boilermaker Dr.  John Scamahorn.

Dr. Scamahorn earned his degree in veterinary medicine from Purdue  University in 1972 and has spent his career supporting veterinarians at  the local, State, and national levels.

Dr. Scamahorn runs the Animal Medical Clinic in Greencastle, Indiana.  He also helped found the Indiana Animal Health Foundation, which helps  fund scholarships and service animals. He also has contributed  significant time to 4-H members.

He received the Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine's  Distinguished Alumnus Award in 2001 and the American Veterinary Medical  Association Meritorious Service Award in 2022, which recognizes a  veterinarian who has brought honor and distinction to the veterinary  profession.

Indiana is proud to be the home for Dr. Scamahorn, and I thank him  for his exceptional service to veterinarians and our communities.                          Recognizing Jinsie Bingham

Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Jinsie Bingham, a  trailblazing broadcaster and lifelong Greencastle, Indiana, resident.  She even graduated from DePauw University, located in Greencastle, in  1956. Her broadcasting career started when she joined the local radio  station WJNZ, formerly known as WXTA, as the sales manager in 1969.

In 1977, Jinsie Bingham became the first woman in Indiana to own and  operate a commercial radio station. She ran WJNZ, which is now known as  WREB and serves Greencastle to this day. In 1996, she received the  Lifetime Achievement Award from the Indiana Chapter of American Women  in Radio and Television.

Jinsie Bingham retired from broadcasting in 1994 but continues to be  active in the Greencastle community to this day. She is also known as  the unofficial historian for the area.

Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to know Jinsie Bingham, and I thank her  for her decades of service to Greencastle.