Providing for Consideration of H.R. Consolidated Appropriations Act, and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, and for Other Purposes


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 1014 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 1014

Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this       resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule       XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the       Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of       the bill (H.R. 7148) making further consolidated       appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2026,       and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall       be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration       of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to       the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees.       After general debate the bill shall be considered for       amendment under the five-minute rule. The amendment printed       in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules       accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted       in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No       further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order       except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee       on Rules. Each such further amendment may be offered only in       the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a       Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read,       shall be debatable for the time specified in the report       equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an       opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be       subject to a demand for division of the question in the House       or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against       such further amendments are waived. At the conclusion of       consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall       rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such       further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as       amended, and on any further amendment thereto to final       passage without intervening motion except one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7147) making       further consolidated appropriations for the fiscal year       ending September 30, 2026, and for other purposes. All points       of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The       bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against       provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question       shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any       amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion       except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled       by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Appropriations or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 3.  The chair of the Committee on Appropriations may       insert in the Congressional Record not later than January 23,       2026, such material as he may deem explanatory of H.R. 7148       and H.R. 7147.

Sec. 4.  The Clerk shall not transmit to the Senate a       message that the House has passed H.R. 7148 until H.R. 7147       is passed by the House.

Sec. 5.  In the engrossment of H.R. 7148, the Clerk shall--

(a) add the text of Divisions A, B, and C of H.R. 7006, as       passed by the House, as new matter to follow Division D of       H.R. 7148, redesignated as Divisions E, F, and G,       respectively;

(b) add the text of titles I through V of H.R. 7147, as       passed by the House, as new matter designated as Division H,       to follow the text added pursuant to subsection (a);

(c) redesignate Divisions E and F of H.R. 7148 as Divisions       I and J, respectively;

(d) assign appropriate designations to provisions within       the engrossment;

(e) conform cross-references and provisions for short       titles within the engrossment; and

(f) be authorized to make technical corrections, to include       corrections in spelling, punctuation, page and line       numbering, section numbering, and insertion of appropriate       headings.

Sec. 6.  House Resolution 375, as amended by the amendments       printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules       accompanying this resolution, is hereby adopted.

.The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Yakym). The gentlewoman from North  Carolina is recognized for 1 hour.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                 General Leave

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and of the  underlying legislation.

This morning, the Rules Committee met and produced a rule, House  Resolution 1014, providing for consideration of H.R. 7147 and H.R.  7148.

The rule provides for consideration of H.R. 7148, the Consolidated  Appropriations Act, 2026, under a structured rule with two amendments  made in order.

The rule further provides that H.R. 7147, the Department of Homeland  Security Appropriations Act, 2026, will be considered under a closed  rule.

The rule provides each bill 1 hour of general debate divided equally  between the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on  Appropriations or their respective designees and one motion to  recommit.

Additionally, in the engrossment of H.R. 7148 after final passage in  the House, the text of H.R. 7006, the Financial Services and General  Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related  Programs Appropriations Act, 2026, and H.R. 7147 will  be added to the bill. The Clerk will redesignate the sections and be  authorized to make technical and conforming changes.

Mr. Speaker, with consideration of this rule and its two underlying  measures, the House stands firmly upon the 1-yard line. We are, indeed,  ready to move forward and complete the appropriations process. We are  ready to lock in the final components of our 12 fiscal year 2026  appropriations bills.

Additionally, we are ready to further cement our long-overdue return  to regular order in this legislative body. It will be a welcome return,  indeed, Mr. Speaker.

Here is the simplest of truths that all of us here understand and  need to be reminded of regularly: There will never be such a thing as a  perfect piece of legislation or a perfect package of bills.

Perfection is a phantom. Many may seek it with the best of  intentions, but in the end, it is unattainable. That is just a fact of  life that we must understand.

I can imagine that there are Members who want to see more within  these measures, and there are some who want to see less. Both positions  are to be expected, but here is the bottom line: We should never let  the perfect be the enemy of the good.

The two appropriations measures under consideration here today, as  well as the ones this body has passed previously, all bear the  hallmarks of the America First agenda. They meet the priorities of the  President and the priorities of the American people. They make sizeable  contributions to America's strong posture of defense, our Nation's  systems of infrastructure, national security, and research and  innovation within health.

As Chairman Cole has noted multiple times over, this process has been  Member-driven and deliberate, and I wholeheartedly agree with that. I  will also add that this process and the monumental victories that we  have achieved thus far signal a fundamental, positive change within  this legislative body, a change we should take note of and celebrate.

Let's finish out this process and deliver this final tranche of  appropriations bills across the finish line.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, this is the most targeted process in two  decades. We got the Senate to do its job. I will stack this process up  against that of the Democrats when they controlled the process and let  the public decide.

Mr. Speaker, Democrats continue to attack ICE agents in their  operations.  Instead of debating the complexities of arrest or the nuances of  reasonable suspicion, Democrats are instead attacking their authority,  their dignity, and their work at large. That is beyond unfortunate as  ICE agents are arresting some of the worst criminals imaginable.

During the first year of the Trump administration, ICE arrested 7,000  gang members from America's streets. This includes a criminal illegal  alien from Venezuela, an active gang member. The perpetrator's rap  sheet includes arrests for homicide, assault, cruelty toward children,  domestic violence, and damaged property. He entered the U.S. in 2022  and was released by the Biden administration. ICE arrested him on  February 28, 2025, and the Trump administration removed him on  September 12, 2025.

ICE arrested a criminal illegal alien from Cambodia, a Crips gang  member, who was convicted of homicide, robbery, and battery. He was  released into the U.S. by the Biden administration. ICE arrested him on  March 4, 2025, and removed him on April 2, 2025.

ICE also arrested a criminal illegal alien from Cuba and Bloods gang  member, who was convicted for multiple homicides and burglary. ICE  arrested him on October 27, 2025, and removed him on January 6, 2026.

Beyond gang members, ICE has arrested some of the worst perps  imaginable, including a 20-year-old citizen of Guatemala who was  filming a child being raped.

Mr. Speaker, despite all of this, ICE law enforcement is facing a  1,300 percent increase in assaults against them, a 3,200 percent  increase in vehicle attacks, and an 8,000 percent increase in death  threats.

If Democrats want to debate the new Supreme Court interpretations of  reasonable suspicion, let's do it. If they want to debate the very  authorities of ICE stretching back decades over both Republican and  Democrat administrations, let's do that. If they want to have concrete  debates about the authorities or changes of laws, let's do that. But we  should not attack the operational decisions that are directed to one  goal and one goal only: keeping Americans safe and upholding our  immigration laws.

We enforce our immigration laws, or they are meaningless. We either  grant ICE the mission of fulfilling its mandate, or we don't. We either  give them the support they need to confront, stand face-to-face, and  arrest the world's worst criminals, or we don't.

Mr. Speaker, President Trump has reset our standing in the global  market after decades of failed and unfair trade deals put the American  economy last.

Swift and decisive action has brought scores of countries to the  negotiating table and numerous new trade deals including with the U.K.,  the EU, Japan, Australia, Korea, El Salvador, Vietnam, Guatemala, and  Malaysia, just to name a few. These trade deals will help grow the  economy, protect the American workers, and reassert our global  standing.

Our friends have selective memory. Let's remember: When President  Biden took office about 5 years ago, he left President Trump's tariffs  from his first term largely in place. We didn't hear a peep from our  colleagues then. In fact, many of them advocated for keeping those  tariffs and embraced the Biden decision.

President Trump is simply doubling down on that successful approach.  It seems the deciding factor for Democrats' newfound opposition is  grounded in Trump derangement syndrome.

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I also thank Mr. Salazar for his work and,  actually, all the staff who work so hard around this Capitol. We are  very blessed.

Mr. Speaker, I understand that Mr.--I am going to say this in a  second--Mr. McGovern is ready to close, and I am ready to close. I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, for months, bipartisan, bicameral negotiations and  collaboration have been underway. They have yielded consistent,  consecutive appropriations products that deliver upon the Nation's  highest priorities.

I applaud Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro, as well as other  appropriators, and especially their staff, for the time they have  invested in these 12 appropriations bills. It is time to get them  across the finish line and stamp our seal of approval on them.

In a moment, I will offer an amendment to the rule that would repeal  the Senate's Arctic Frost payout provision.

The House has previously considered this under suspension by a vote  of 427-0. This vote reflects a bipartisan consensus.

I cannot overstate how wholly inappropriate it was that the Senate  included this provision in the continuing resolution to reopen the  government late last year. We must strike down this provision  immediately. American taxpayers should not be on the hook for this  inappropriate payout.

Mr. Speaker, it is time to bring this process to a close. It is time  that we return this legislative body to regular order and move forward  with our work. I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the previous  question and ``yes'' on the rule.                        Amendment Offered by Ms. Foxx

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I offer an amendment to the resolution.