-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691246/9999


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, this weekend marks a very important  anniversary in our Nation's history. On May 18, we celebrate the 60th  birthday of Head Start. I take this time to acknowledge the leaders and  advocates from the YMCA of Metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia's largest Head  Start provider.

Through the years, my office has developed an outstanding partnership  with the YMCA of Metropolitan Atlanta as we work hand in hand to serve  our children. Next week, the supporters of Head Start from across  Metropolitan Atlanta will gather to wish a happy birthday to this  critically important Federal program.

Mr. Speaker, 60 years ago, President Lyndon Baines Johnson spoke from  the Rose Garden to announce the opening of 2,000 child development  centers across the country.

Project Head Start was developed as a community-driven initiative to  ensure that children born into poverty would not remain there for the  rest of their lives. In order to get a good head start on the future,  children would receive preschool training to get them ready for school.  They would receive medical and dental care. Their parents would receive  counseling on how to provide the best environments for them at home.

Mr. Speaker, 60 years later, Head Start's legacy continues to make  America proud. This Federal program has served nearly 40 million  American children. From classrooms to the kitchen table, Head Start  walks alongside our families and their young children to serve them  through the four pillars of every Head Start program, from education,  health services, family involvement, and wraparound services.

The benefits of Head Start are clear. Children who attend Head Start  are more likely to complete high school and more likely to enroll and  complete college. They are less likely to have run-ins with the law,  less likely to enter foster care, and less likely to experience poor  health.

I am proud to serve in Congress with notable Head Start alumni, such  as my colleagues Representative Tony Gonzales, Teresa Leger Fernandez,  Andre Carson, Jahana Hayes, and of course, Georgia's very own Senator  Raphael Warnock.

Sadly, over the last 60 years, the transformational legacy of Project  Head Start seems to have been forgotten and its future has faced recent  threats by many of the Republican colleagues and the Trump  administration. Just last month, a leaked Republican budget proposed a  complete elimination of funding for Head Start. In Georgia alone, over  22,000 children would stand to lose out on the opportunity to  participate in this life-changing and transformative program.

As a mother who fights for the safety and success of every child in  America, I will not be silent in the face of these attacks. That is why  I have been standing up and sounding the alarm, working to educate  people back home about what these cuts would mean for our community,  not only in Georgia but all across the Nation. Georgia is facing a  childcare crisis. At a time when access to childcare is severely  limited, cuts to Head Start would impact not just the lives of the  children and their families but our entire communities.

Head Start is a core component of our local economy, and without  access to this option, many parents would be forced out of their jobs.  Head Start affords working families the peace of mind that their  children will be safe, healthy, and well cared for during the day.

Just as President Johnson did, we are continuing to fight for  investments and opportunities for our children so that they have the  tools necessary to achieve their highest ambitions. Federal investment  in the foundational development of our children must remain our  national priority.

As we prepare to wish Head Start a happy 60th birthday, I call on all  Georgians and all Americans across this country to take action and  speak out in support of our children. What we do today matters a great  deal for the future of our next generation.

It is my hope and my prayer that 60 years from now this body will be  comprised of many more Head Start alumni, living proof that this  program must continue.