Attacks and Threats on Democracy and Rule of Law


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690394/attacks-and-threats-on-democracy-and-rule-of-law


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank my delegation colleague,  Representative Johnson, for being the managing Member and for yielding  to me this evening. I thank him for these moments tonight as we are in  a very critical time, as my friend has been expressing before I came.

I thank Mr. Johnson's staff, as well, for taking the time and effort  to put this together tonight and the Litigation Task Force for  convening on the floor tonight.

I am proud to join my Democratic colleagues here to raise the alarm  that this administration's actions are rapidly undermining our  democracy and our justice system. However, Democrats continue to stand  as the party of truth, the party of democracy, and the party of the  American people.

While the Trump administration is emboldened to tear down  foundational programs that keep Americans safe and gut the Department  of Justice and our law enforcement, Democrats in Congress are holding  this administration accountable and fighting so that our government  works for every family, not just the richest in the world or the close  friends and colleagues of the President.

I am here today not just as a public servant but as a mother who  knows what it feels like to lose everything to gun violence, and I know  this: Every family in America deserves the right to be safe at school,  at the grocery store, and at home.

The Trump administration is making this much harder. This White House  has worked to unwind the very protections that are designed to keep us  safe. They have cut critical funding for gun  violence prevention programs at the Department of Justice and have  weakened the ATF, making it easier for guns to fall into the wrong  hands and for gun crimes to go unsolved. They even disbanded key  initiatives that tracked domestic terrorism and hate crimes tied to gun  violence.

These decisions are not just reckless. They are deadly, making it  easier for violence to spread, for lives to be shattered, and for  communities to keep on living in fear.

As a mother who lost her son to gun violence, let me be perfectly  clear: The American people are crying out for the basic right to live  safe from unnecessary gun violence. Americans want to send their  children to school or to the mall without wondering if they will ever  come home.

These egregious Trump administration cuts are a slap in the face to  every family and every survivor of gun violence. In many cases, these  rollbacks also make it more difficult for law enforcement to keep our  communities safe.

Unfortunately, of all the disputes local officers are called to  address, domestic violence incidents involving a gun are some of the  most dangerous. The emotion and volatility during these incidents mean  they can quickly turn deadly if a lethal weapon is present.

Instead of strengthening background checks and red flag laws to  provide tools to our law enforcement, the Trump administration has  weakened those crisis response tools that law enforcement depends on  and drastically cut funding to police departments, putting our officers  at risk.

I came to Congress to make our laws safer after I witnessed firsthand  how fragile our justice system can be, and now I am determined, as we  all should be, to protect our justice system so that perpetrators of  crime and violence are actually held accountable.

There have been recent attacks on judges, as has been expressed by my  colleague, Mr. Johnson. These attacks on our judges and the courts by  the Trump administration should alarm every American. It will now  become harder for families to seek accountability for crimes that are  committed against them and for survivors to get the justice that they  deserve.

Every American, no matter their background or the State that they  live in, deserves to trust that when they walk into a courtroom, the  law is fighting on their side. When our elected leaders belittle  public-serving judges and bend the Department of Justice to serve their  own interests, then they shatter that trust.

Families looking for answers, for protection, and for justice cannot  afford to wait. Trust me, Mr. Speaker, I know. I have been one of those  families. I know the stakes of receiving justice for a loved one, and  they are just far too high.

I thank my colleagues for standing up. I thank Representative Johnson  for standing up for the integrity of our democracy on behalf of those  who rely upon it every single day.

Mr. Speaker, for those who are watching at home, I say this to them:  You are simply not alone. House Democrats are fighting for you, and we  will not let this administration undermine the very ideals of America  and the fabric of our democracy.