Child Predators Accountability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698896/child-predators-accountability-act


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Raskin for yielding  me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6715, the Child  Predators Accountability Act of 2025.

The safety of our children is foundational to a secure and just  society. Yet this foundation is broken every time a child is  victimized.

Due to narrow interpretations, prosecutors have sometimes been  required to prove that a child was visibly, actively participating in  sexual conduct in order to bring charges, but exploitation doesn't  always look the same. A child does not have to be visibly active for  harm to be real, lasting, and devastating.

Tell me, what would it mean for the child victims if we required  more?

The properly named Child Predators Accountability Act makes an  important and very necessary clarification for a circuit split that  could allow predators to evade justice. By making it uniformly illegal  to depict a minor in sexually explicit material, regardless of whether  that child appears to be actively participating, this change  strengthens the law so that predators can no longer hide behind  technical loopholes while continuing to exploit our children, making  sure that anyone who dares to prey on the most vulnerable will face  consequences for their crimes. This legislation would clarify Federal  standards nationwide and restore consistency in how these horrific  offenses are prosecuted, ensuring that justice does not depend solely  on geography or jurisdiction.

The protection of our children from monstrous crimes transcends  political television. I call on each and every one of my colleagues to  pass this legislation and send a very clear and strong message that the  exploitation of children will be met with the full, unyielding,  inescapable force of justice. This bill empowers law enforcement and  prosecutors by giving them unified and stronger tools to pursue cases  and dismantle these exploitation efforts.

Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, when the law is clear, justice can move  more swiftly and more effectively, allowing  victims to begin the long process of healing with the knowledge that  their government is standing with them and for them.

This legislation is about protecting the most vulnerable among us.

The time for action is now. I support the Child Predators  Accountability Act, and I urge all my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina.  Lee).