Coercion and Sexual Abuse Free Environment Act


Mrs. McBATH. Madam Speaker, I thank the ranking member of the  Judiciary Committee for yielding.

I rise today in support of H.R. 6732, the Coercion and Sexual Abuse  Free Environment Act, or, as we all call it, the CSAFE Act.

As technology has become more sophisticated, online threats against  children have become more complicated, malicious, and sometimes deadly.

The harm has moved beyond just simple bullying. Today, groups of  people online, like the so-called 764 network, seek out and coerce  vulnerable kids to photograph, record, or live stream acts of violence  or self-harm to the world.

Take, for example, a horrific case that happened just last summer on  the online platform Roblox. Several people associated with 764 located  in Tennessee allegedly used the platform to entice a 13-year-old,  located hundreds of miles away in New Jersey, to carve the initials of  each person into her leg and send the group pictures and videos of her  self-inflicted wounds.

According to the criminal complaint, the content was shared with the  leader of the 764 group, or the so-called boss, so that the  perpetrators could become full-fledged members of the group.

Mind you, Roblox is a massive online platform that actually allows  users to design, create, and play millions of different games. With  roughly half of its user base being under the age of 13, the platform  is used by nearly 90 million children every day and has repeatedly been  found to be at the top of its class in safety features.

Just imagine the potential harm that could be inflicted on our  children on platforms and websites that have subpar safety features.

Let's be clear. State and Federal prosecutors have brought charges in  these types of cases. For example, on November 20, 2025, the Department  of Justice announced that a grand jury returned an indictment charging  a 20-year-old man in Maryland, who identifies himself as a member of  the 764 group, with three counts of sexual exploitation of a child,  three counts of  coercion and enticement of a child, and one count of cyberstalking.

Still, there is no law that specifically prohibits the coercion of  children to inflict harm on themselves or others, which sometimes makes  it hard for prosecutors to pursue these charges.

The CSAFE Act is meant to fill in the gaps in our Federal law by  creating a new crime that prohibits individuals from compelling,  attempting to compel, or conspiring to compel children into physically  harming themselves, others, or animals.

While the original bill considered by the Judiciary Committee raised  several constitutional concerns, I am pleased to see that this bill  before us today includes several improvements that address the concerns  that we raised during our bill markup.

As the internet and online platforms continue to evolve and create  new challenges that we have to deal with every single day, it is our  job as policymakers to be responsive to those challenges, ensuring that  these seemingly benign tools are not used for nefarious purposes. We  must also make sure that our criminal justice system is capable of  holding to account those who dare to exploit these platforms and these  tools and prey on our children and cause harm to others.

Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues in this body to support  this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.