Count the Crimes to Cut Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697206/count-the-crimes-to-cut-act


Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Roy for working with me. This is  a true representation of good government and what it looks like for  bipartisanship, and I hope we are able to do more of this going  forward.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today for the sake of an effective criminal  justice system. The laws within our criminal code, as has been  expressed before, have become outdated and a highway to  overcriminalization. We have so many unlawful acts within our criminal  code that we don't even know how many criminal laws there are.

That is why we need to pass the Count the Crimes to Cut Act of 2025,  which would mandate the creation of a comprehensive inventory, as we  have expressed, of all Federal criminal, statutory, and regulatory  offenses.

I am really proud to co-lead this commonsense and, as I said before,  bipartisan solution that will help us address the pressing issue of  overcriminalization, a troubling result of unchecked growth of our  Federal criminal law.

For too long, new Federal crimes have been created without a full  understanding of what criminal laws already exist. Six years ago,  policy organizations estimated that we have over 5,000 Federal crimes,  many of which, as we have stated before, are redundant, overly broad,  or better left to the States, or are so obscure that the public has no  practical way of knowing that they even exist. In some cases, these  laws are so vague that even a reasonable person would struggle to  understand what conduct is prohibited.

This massive and unorganized body of Federal criminal law puts well- intentioned, law-abiding citizens definitely at risk. Legal scholars  suggest that everyday Americans may unknowingly violate multiple  Federal crimes without ever being made aware of it. Yet, we cannot  meaningfully address the consequences of this bloated system until we  fully understand the scope of the problem.

Over the last few decades, the number of Federal criminal offenses  has dramatically increased to more than 5,000, and that figure doesn't  even account for the countless additional crimes created by Federal  regulations. Despite several previous attempts to determine the number  of criminal offenses that are currently on the books, the fact is, we  still don't know.

The Count the Crimes to Cut Act, which I am very proud to cosponsor,  is a necessary first step toward comprehensive, data-driven reform that  truly works.

By finally establishing a complete inventory of these offenses, we  can effectively evaluate how they are enforced, understand the intent  requirements associated with each one of these laws, and determine  where reforms to mens rea standards are necessary. We will also be able  to identify redundant or outdated laws that serve no public safety  purpose at all.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot have effective reform of Federal criminal laws  without first passing and implementing the Count the Crimes to Cut Act.  This bill is not about simply making lists. It is about creating the  tools that we need for precise data-driven reform.

With concrete data, we can determine exactly which reforms are  needed, remove speculation from the process, and avoid unintentional,  unnecessary mistakes that could arise from a sweeping one-size-fits-all  approach.

Might I say, in the era that we are in right now, there seems to be a  lot of mistrust within our communities with law enforcement. We need to  be building those relationships, building community, and I think this  piece of legislation helps to really expedite that kind of community- driven policing and helps to make sure that people feel safe and secure  in their communities.

I thank Congressman Roy for his leadership on this legislation, which  will help eliminate duplicative laws and allow us to better serve and  focus on the true threats to public safety, which are always a top  priority of mine.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this long overdue piece of  legislation. It is a bipartisan measure that really puts common sense  and accountability first. I thank my colleagues for their support on  this piece of legislation. I yield back the balance of my time.