Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698840/crime-victims-fund-stabilization-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Wagner) so  much for this piece of legislation. I thank her for all the really good  hard work that she has done in rallying the troops to do the right  thing. I thank her very much for taking care of our victims and making  sure they have these provisions. I, too, have been a victim, so I thank  her personally.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 909, the Crime Victims Fund  Stabilization Act of 2025.

Established by the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to provide funding  for State victim compensation and assistance programs, the Crime  Victims Fund does not rely on taxpayer dollars. Instead, it is funded  by fines, monetary penalties, and assessments paid by convicted Federal  defendants, as well as forfeited bail bonds and other gifts and  donations.

For four decades, the Crime Victims Fund has been a lifeline,  providing money through grants to States, local governments,  individuals, and other entities. It supports rape crisis centers,  domestic violence shelters, child advocacy programs, and services for  survivors like me of homicide, assault, and human trafficking in every  State and in every territory. It pays for counseling, emergency  shelters, legal aid, and lost wages.

In short, the Crime Victims Fund is the bedrock of our Nation's  promise to help victims rebuild their lives, serving nearly 4 million  victims of crime every year. That is a staggering number, so I want to  say it again: 4 million victims of crime every year.

Over the last decade, the fund has faced a severe and sustained  crisis. Stemming from changes in prosecution practices, revenues have  plummeted. Meanwhile, the needs of victims have only grown.

In recent years, we have witnessed the emergence of a devastating  cycle. Annual distributions to States for victim services and  assistance have been cut by 40 percent, forcing programs to close their  doors, lay off their staff, and turn victims away in their greatest and  most desperate hours of need.

H.R. 909 is a necessary and responsible solution that is not just  fiscally sound but profoundly just. This bill would address the  fluctuations in deposits that continue to threaten the fund and our  ability to provide vital support to victims of crime.

It would provide critical stabilization of the fund by authorizing an  infusion of unobligated funds collected through the False Claims Act to  halt the immediate bleeding. This stopgap measure will prevent further  catastrophic cuts to victim services, ensuring that hotlines remain  open and advocates remain at their posts while we implement and  continue to work on a long-term fix.

It includes essential oversight and accountability measures. By  requiring regular reporting that includes an audit, we can guarantee  transparency in how these funds are being managed and distributed, and  we can be sure that the money reaches frontline organizations that are  doing the hard work on the ground. This is lifesaving work that they  are doing, with efficiency and integrity.

Speaking as a beneficiary of the good works done as a result of the  existence of the Crime Victims Fund and a proud cosponsor of H.R. 909,  there is truly an urgent need to pass this legislation. Without Federal  funding, critical victim services are simply going to vanish.

I am grateful to the sponsors of this bill and to all of our  colleagues for their bipartisanship in doing what is right to help our  victims and for their efforts.

Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield  myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I am sure my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree  that neither saving lives nor providing support to victims of crime are  partisan issues. Victimization knows no political party.

The instability of the Crime Victims Fund threatens red states as  well as blue states alike, urban centers and also rural communities  equally. Passage of the Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act is a  declaration of our own common values.

This bill says that our commitment to this Nation's victims is not  just a line in a budget subject to prosecutorial trends.

I would like to say when my family and I spent the 2\1/2\ years in  court that we did in Jacksonville, Florida, when my son was murdered in  November of 2012, the Crime Victims Fund of Florida helped to support  the representative and to provide the representative who spent day  after day with us making sure that we had the resources and the means  that we needed, making sure that we understood that the State of  Florida was standing there to support us in spite of the terrible  tragedy that we had suffered. That money, those funds, were allocated  from the Crime Victims Fund.

So, once again, having actually lived through this experience, I know  how important it is to make sure that we pass this legislation.

It says that our first thought is to bind the wounds of the injured,  the helpless, and the innocent.

We owe it to the survivors who need counseling and stable housing to  help them sleep through the night again. We owe it to the parents who  must bury their child or their children or their loved one, such as I  have. We owe it to the countless silent sufferers who have yet to come  forward but who must know that help will be there when they need it.

This is a commonsense solution that will ensure victims have access  to the services that they need to heal, to reclaim their lives again,  and to feel secure enough to speak out about their pursuing the justice  that they deserve.

I ask all Members of this body to support this lifesaving bill. I  hope that the Senate will take it up and pass it as quickly as  possible.