Education is of Great Importance to Congressional Black Caucus, Congress, and Constituents


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Virginia (Ms.  McClellan) for yielding, and I thank the gentlewoman for anchoring this  Special Order hour tonight on behalf of the CBC.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak out against the Republican assault  on every American's right to a quality public education in this  country.

For decades, families have been promised the right to send their kids  to good public schools, regardless of how much money they make or their  child's disability. The actions of President Trump are a direct threat  to making good on that promise, specifically for children with  disabilities.

In February, parents in Georgia received this exact email, telling  them that year-round counseling and support services meant to assist  them and their disabled child in transitioning from high school to  adulthood have been discontinued--overnight, in the middle of the  school year.

As every parent knows, raising a child takes an incredible amount of  planning and care, especially if your child has unique or special  needs, and even more so if that child is one of color.

We would do anything for our children. The fact that a group of  faceless government officials can go behind a parent's back and cancel  programs that our kids rely on with no explanation is absolutely  unacceptable.

It is more than wrong to pull the rug out from under families in the  middle of the school year during one of the most formative times in a  child's life, after recruiting and convincing them to participate in  this program in the first place.

The Charting My Path for Future Success program was operating in 13  different districts across 11 States. It had actively recruited over  1,000 students with disabilities and their families, as well as 60  teachers, to take part in this program, some of whom uprooted their  entire lives to be involved.

Seeing your child grow up to thrive, that is the goal of every  parent. I have not met one parent in this country who didn't break  their backs to make sure that they were offering their child every  opportunity to be successful, and that takes on another level of  significance when your child has autism, dyslexia, or another condition  that makes learning even more difficult for them. It takes a different  level of commitment, a different level of support, to ensure that they  can reach the potential that all of us want to see fulfilled in our  kids.

That is exactly what this program was doing before President Trump  and Elon Musk actively decided that it was not worth continuing.

All too often it is, unfortunately, sink or swim for disabled  students after high school in America. Students and their families are  left behind despite being promised that their school would get their  child on a path to success and independence.

Programs like these are the difference between students being  successful in adulthood or regressing. They can be the difference  between a lifetime on disability versus a good job that someone can  actually raise a family on.

The President and Secretary McMahon claim that students with  disabilities will not be affected by their plans to gut the Department,  but they already are. Time and time again, they say one thing, and they  do another. It is the American people and our students who are paying  the price in this country every single day.

Emails like this, life-changing services for families being  discontinued at random, this is the Trump-Musk plan for our children,  and this is only the beginning.

The time is now for all Members in this body to speak up, to speak  out, and to fight back against these attacks on our families in each  and every one of our districts. It doesn't make a difference what  district any of our colleagues are representing. All of our children  are being affected. Every single one of us should be willing to stand  up and fight back for our communities and fight back for our students  before it is too late.