Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700034/law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2189, the so-called Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act.

Law enforcement officers serve a critical role in promoting public  safety. That is why we must give them the tools to do their job  effectively and safely.

However, contrary to what so many of my colleagues have been told,  H.R. 2189 does nothing to help law enforcement officers. In fact, it  would put our law enforcement officers and so many others in great  danger by giving dangerous people easy access to serious weapons.

By changing the definition of ``firearm,'' H.R. 2189 would create  dangerous new loopholes in the Gun Control Act and National Firearms  Act, exempting so-called less-than-lethal weapons from our gun laws,  including those that require firearms to be traceable, detectable by  security equipment, and not available to prohibited purchasers, like  felons, fugitives, and domestic abusers. These exemptions would allow  these weapons, which can be deadly, to be sold to anyone, including  dangerous people, without having to undergo a background check.

Law enforcement has no need for this exemption. They are already  exempt from many gun laws and already use all kinds of weapons,  including those covered by this bill without any legal obstacles. In  fact, police departments in all 50 States already use these tasers. We  also know that State and local corrections officers are armed with  tasers within prisons and jails across the country.

Let's be clear: This bill is designed to increase civilian purchases  of these weapons, and we know this because it  includes an exemption from the NFA excise tax, which law enforcement  already does not pay.

More than 3 years ago, prosecutors and legal experts at the  Department of Justice sounded the alarm when they reviewed a prior  version of this bill. These experts all agree that:

This bill would endanger our officers and communities by       weakening their efforts to keep weapons out of the hands of       dangerous persons.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives warned that:

These weapons could be used against law enforcement,       security personnel, or the public, creating an increased risk       of harm to public safety. They also would not be traceable if       used in a crime.

If this bill were truly about helping law enforcement, Republicans  would have taken this feedback from the DOJ and the ATF and revised  this bill, but they didn't. The bill before us today poses the same  risk to public safety.

Many of my colleagues share my commitment to making sure law  enforcement has all the tools that they need to keep themselves and our  communities safe. Some of them cosponsored this legislation because  they initially believed this bill was a genuine effort to do that. They  have since learned the truth. Some joined Congressman Thompson's  amendment, which would ensure that less-than-lethal weapons are not  considered firearms only when they are used by law enforcement officers  acting in their official capacity, addressing the alleged purpose of  this legislation without creating a dangerous loophole. Republicans  rejected that amendment.

Now that these Members, who once cosponsored this bill, see that this  bill does not help law enforcement and will, in fact, endanger police  and many others, they are now opposing this bill.

We must continue providing the resources and support that strengthen  officer and community safety, not undermine them by removing the  safeguards that keep weapons out of the hands of dangerous and violent  criminals. We need to be preventing violence.

Mrs. McBATH.  Kamlager-Dove).

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2189 does nothing to help law enforcement, who  already uses these weapons in all 50 States. It does not provide any  new tools or training that would reduce police shootings or promote the  safety of officers or the public.

Instead, it makes dangerous weapons widely available to everyone,  including those who should not have them. It allows those weapons to be  untraceable, undetectable by equipment, and sold to anyone without a  background check.

This bill is especially dangerous for those experiencing domestic  violence since this bill provides easy, legal access to weapons that  are designed to control and incapacitate their target and can be  deadly. Groups that combat domestic violence and gun violence and who  support public safety all oppose this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record three letters from various  organizations opposing this bill.                                                   February 5, 2026.      Hon. John Thune,      Senate Majority Leader,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives, Washington, DC.      Hon. Charles Schumer,      Senate Minority Leader,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

To Majority Leader Thune, Minority Leader Schumer, Speaker       Johnson, and Leader Jeffries: We write to express our strong       opposition to H.R. 2189/S. 1283, the Law Enforcement Innovate       to De-Escalate Act and H.R. 4242, the Innovate Less Lethal to       De-Escalate Tax Modernization Act. While the stated intent of       these pieces of legislation is to promote the use of ``new       less-than-lethal technologies, such as long-range tasers'' by       law enforcement in lieu of traditional firearms, they do not       reference law enforcement at all, and are unnecessary,       reckless, and would have far broader implications for public       safety. These bills would create a loophole for firearm       access by prohibited individuals by effectively creating a       new legal market for untraceable weapons. Additionally, they       will upend the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and       Explosives' (ATF) enforcement of firearm laws, allow for the       development and sale of weapons that are properly prohibited       by law, and make ``less-than-lethal'' devices that employ       explosive propellant available to the public, including       individuals convicted of serious violent crimes, without any       federal regulation. Furthermore, while both bills present       their own independent public safety concerns, in tandem,       there are effectively no limits to what kinds of ``less-than-      lethal'' weapon systems the gun industry may develop. Even       more troubling, the legislation contains no prohibition or       limitations on modifications that could turn these devices       into lethal weapons. While we applaud bipartisan efforts to       decrease the risk of lethality in law enforcement encounters       and commend Congress' commitment to encourage de-escalation       tactics, we oppose H.R. 2189/S. 1283 and H.R. 4242 as written       and urge members of Congress to oppose these bills in their       current form.                       Unnecessary for Law Enforcement

The sponsors of these pieces of legislation contend that       their purpose is to increase access to and limit liability       for law enforcement use of certain less-than-lethal devices,       including specific types of TASERs, which are classified as       firearms because they use explosive propellant as opposed to       compressed gas. The text of these bills does not mention law       enforcement, either directly or by virtue of statutory       changes, in any capacity. Thus, the changes to the federal       code included in these bills win apply equally to all       persons, including individuals convicted of serious violent       crimes.

Federal law enforcement entities, such as ICE and CBP,       already widely employ such devices, and have entered into       procurement contracts worth over $35 million for Taser       systems in just the last few years, including at least $15       million for the Taser lo weapons system, a firearm-classified       less-than-lethal device.

Furthermore, state and local governments, along with their       accompanying law enforcement agencies, already procure and       deploy vast numbers of firearms, including less-than-lethal       devices classified as firearms. In fact, many of the civilian       requirements for firearms purchases are waived for agencies       and even individual officers purchasing weapons for service,       including background checks and prohibitions on purchasing       firearms across state lines. Such purchases are even exempted       from federal excise taxes on firearms and ammunition. Thus,       there is no federal constraint on law enforcement's       procurement of TASERs or other less-than-lethal devices that       are classified as firearms.

Proponents of these bills suggest that state and local law       enforcement are restrained from deploying firearm-classified       less-than-lethal devices, including TASERs that fall under       the definition of firearm, because of concerns about       liability, specifically that their use would inherently       constitute ``deadly force'' because of their firearm       classification. However, if such constraints exist at all,       they are a function of state or local laws. In fact, federal       regulations and courts have held that the use of less-than-      lethal devices, even those classified as firearms, does not       constitute deadly force on its own. Furthermore, deregulating       such devices under federal law would not absolve most law       enforcement agencies from such liability, as nearly every       single state has a statutory definition of firearm that is       functionally equal to that contained in U.S. code. Therefore,       removing these less-than-lethal devices from the federal       definition of ``firearm'' would not resolve this issue.

In fact, law enforcement agencies are already utilizing       firearm-classified less-than-lethal devices in every state at       every level: states, counties, towns, villages, townships,       and even correctional facilities have already deployed them       and many more are moving to adopt them. Moreover, even in       states with use of force policies that stipulate that the use       of a firearm constitutes deadly force, local department use       of force policies specifically enumerate that the Taser 10, a       firearm-classified device, constitutes ``non-lethal force.''                       The Law Enforcement Innovate to                    De-Escalate Act (H.R. 2189/S. 1283)

At its core, H.R. 2189/S. 1283 would deregulate ``less-      than-lethal projectile devices'' currently classified as       firearms under federal law and, therefore, subject to       important and long-standing public safety protections. In       doing so, these high-powered ``less-than-lethal'' devices       would become available to the general public and prohibited       persons alike without these protections all because this       legislation would no longer treat them as       ``firearms.'' In addition, because H.R. 2189/S. 1283 do not       prohibit modification, there is nothing to prohibit a       convicted felon, domestic abuser, or anyone else for that       matter, in possession of such a ``less-than-lethal'' device       from turning it into a fully lethal weapon. At the same time,       this legislation would provide the firearms industry with a       roadmap to innovate ``less-than-lethal'' weapons that, but-      for H.R. 2189/S. 1283 would be considered ``firearms,'' to       make an end-run around existing federal law, which would       effectively establish a new, legal ghost gun market. H.R.       2189/S. 1283 radically alters the definition of ``firearm''       under the Gun Control Act of 1968 (GCA).

Under the GCA, a ``firearm'' includes ``any weapon which       will or is designed to or may readily be converted to expel a       projectile by the action of an explosive,'' as well as ``the       frame or receiver of any such weapon,'' which houses the       critical fire control components and is the only part of a       firearm that is regulated under federal law on its own.

H.R. 2189/S. 1283 changes this definition to create a new       class of weapons, ``less-than-lethal projectile devices,''       that are exempted from all federal regulation under the GCA       and would no longer require serialization of their frames or       receivers, background checks when they are transferred, or       paperwork for their manufacture, distribution, or sale.

Exempting these devices from basic public safety       requirements creates a dangerous loophole for prohibited       persons--such as individuals with felony or domestic violence       convictions--to access deadly weapons, creating a new legal       market for untraceable weapons. While H.R. 2189/S. 1283 does       stipulate that devices would need to be designed and intended       to be used in a manner not likely to cause death or serious       bodily harm, and that they may not be readily convertible to       fire ammunition commonly used in most other firearms, the       bill neither prohibits nor penalizes the modification of       these devices for such purposes, effectively deregulating       fIrearm access even for prohibited individuals.

Given the long history of modifying weapons to make them       even more dangerous, it is not hard to imagine scenarios       where unscrupulous gun industry actors would seize on this       dangerous definitional change to produce their own ``less-      than-lethal projectile devices'' that could later be more       easily modified to be fully lethal. For the last decade, the       gun industry used ambiguity in the existing regulation of       firearms to create a market for unfinished frames and       receivers, as well as kits to finish assembling them, which       were the basis for the ghost gun market before the ATF       promulgated a rule to regulate them as firearms. Aside from       frames or receivers, all other firearm components are       entirely unregulated under federal law, making it inevitable       that kits and parts to modify these ``less-than-lethal       projectile devices'' will become commercially available, and       schematics for 3D-printed conversion components will also       become available online.

More importantly, a change in the definition of ``firearm''       may upend all ATF enforcement of the law with regard to       firearms. The Supreme Court recently ruled in VanDerStok that       ATF's regulation entitled ``Definition of `Frame or Receiver'       and Identification of Firearms'' was properly conceived and       implemented--that ``the GCA embraces, and thus permits ATF to       regulate, some weapon parts kits and unfinished frames or       receivers. Changing the definition of ``firearm'' such that       an entire class of weapons (and their attending frames and       receivers) are no longer ``firearms'' would create new       opportunities for the industry to challenge and evade firearm       regulations. The Supreme Court's recent case law in       VanDerStok and Cargill, where the court ruled that bump       stocks did not satisfy the definition of ``machinegun,''       shows the importance of carefully crafted, thorough       definitions in firearms statutes.

While the legislation says that the device cannot be       ``designed and intended and may not be readily converted to       accept and discharge . . . projectile[s] at a velocity       exceeding 500 feet per second,'' it ignores the fact that       such devices, as with all firearms, do not by themselves       determine the velocity of the projectiles they fire, but it       is the ammunition which is the determinant of velocity.

Further, while the bill prohibits manufactured devices from       being able to accept ammunition ``commonly used in handguns,       rifles, and shotguns,'' the frame or receiver of a firearm       often does not determine the type of ammunition that it can       fire on its own. Often, it is the other, unregulated       components of the firearm that determine that factor.

The Innovate Less Lethal to De-Escalate Tax Modernization Act (H.R.                                   4242)

This bill would create dangerous exemptions to the       definition of ``firearm'' under the National Firearms Act       (NFA). The National Firearms Act covers certain firearms and       accessories determined by Congress almost a century ago to be       particularly dangerous. In turn, Congress imposed strict       regulations on the manufacture and sale of these weapons and       accessories, requiring approval from ATF after a background       check, the submission of fingerprints and a photograph,       registration of the weapon, as well as a tax stamp. The       weapons covered by the NFA are very limited in scope,       including machine guns, destructive devices such as grenade       launchers and large-bore rifles and shotguns (greater than       .50 caliber), and firearms that fall under the category of       ``any other weapon'' such as firearms incorporated into other       common objects or disguised to be undetectable as firearms,       i.e., umbrella or flashlight guns.

This bill would remove NFA registration requirements and       deregulate the private transfer of certain devices that would       otherwise be classified as firearms under the NFA. This       includes destructive devices, including devices that would       otherwise be classified as grenade launchers, large-bore       (greater than .50 caliber) weapons, kinetic impact devices,       and immobility devices classified as ``any other weapon,''       including bola devices, so long as they fell under the       definition of a ``less than lethal projectile device''--a       definition which is both alarmingly easy to satisfy and of       which certain elements can be waived at the discretion of the       Secretary of the Treasury. While law enforcement agencies       have access to such devices, these bills would establish       broad unregulated civilian access, even for those with       prohibiting criminal convictions.                  Automated and Undetectable Weapons Systems

While both H.R. 2189/S. 1283 and H.R. 4242 present their       own independent public safety concerns; in tandem, there are       effectively very few limits to what kinds of ``less-than-      lethal'' weapon systems the gun industry may develop after       their enactment--which could be sold directly to the public       without regulation.

Alarmingly, as these devices would no longer qualify as       ``firearms'' under any federal statute, they would no longer       be subject to the Undetectable Firearms Act (UFA), recently       reauthorized with overwhelming bipartisan and law enforcement       support, paving the way for the incorporation of firearm       technology into ``less-than-lethal'' area denial devices,       robotics, and even armed drones. While some of these weapon       systems already exist--such as the TASER Shockwave,       effectively a TASER claymore that can shoot dozens, or even       hundreds, of projectiles at the same time for crowd control--      they rely on compressed gas, making them large and cumbersome       to deploy. The incorporation of explosive propellant would       create opportunities to miniaturize these systems and deploy       them using automated or remote systems.

Finally, these bills would completely undermine the UFA,       making it legal to incorporate firearm technology into       devices that are specifIcally designed to evade all standard       security measures, such as metal detectors and X-ray       machines, all available for unregulated civilian use.                                  Conclusion

Deregulating these ``less-than-lethal'' devices will put       lives at risk, especially the most vulnerable in society.       Because these devices would no longer fall under the legal       definition of ``firearm,'' they would be available to all       members of the public without a background check and without       a prohibition on modification. Even with those safeguards,       these bills could open a brand new market for dangerous       weapons that are obtainable by anyone, including prohibited       persons. Despite the stated intent, these bills are not       designed to benefit law enforcement and will instead place       them at risk as they encounter these weapons more frequently       on the streets. As such, we oppose H.R. 2189/S. 1283 and H.R.       4242 and urge members of Congress not to support them.            Sincerely,

Brady.

Community Justice Action Fund.

Everytown for Gun Safety.

GIFFORDS.

Newtown Action Alliance.                                   ____       Hon. Jim Jordan,      Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.      Hon. Jamie Raskin,      Ranking Member, Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Jordan and Ranking Member Raskin: On behalf       of Sandy Hook Promise, a national nonprofit committed to       preventing violence and other acts that harm children, we       write to share our opposition to H.R. 2189 and S. 1283, the       Law Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act. This legislation       has the potential to deregulate certain TASERs and other       less-than-lethal devices currently classified as firearms.       While we appreciate Congressional efforts to decrease the       potential for lethality during interactions with law       enforcement, especially for children, the legislation could       create expanded harm to young people and does not increase       access to less than lethal technology for law enforcement in       a meaningful way.

The Law Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act could also       lead to a widespread increase in the availability of less-      than-lethal devices, including TASERS, for general-public       use. While these devices can cause serious bodily harm when       used on adults, they pose an even greater risk to children.       Even manufacturers of these devices acknowledge that       deploying them on young people increases the risk of death or       severe injury. It is therefore dangerous to expand access to       these devices before creating strong guardrails to ensure       they are not deployed against children.

Sandy Hook Promise applauds Congress for working on       bipartisan legislation to reduce the use of lethal force, and       we are eager to       work with you if this bill advances out of Committee. We       encourage Congress to pursue avenues such as conducting       hearings or requesting a study from the National Academies of       Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to provide clear guidance       around the use of force against youth. We are happy to meet       any time with your offices on this issue.            Sincerely,                                               Elizabeth Murphy,                   Senior Vice President of Policy and Partnerships,      Sandy Hook Promise Action Fund.                                   ____                                                   February 9, 2026.      Speaker Mike Johnson,      House of Representatives.      Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries,      House of Representatives.

To Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: In 2014, a       Washington, DC resident (name withheld to protect the       victim's privacy) abused his wife with a TASER, repeatedly       shocking her in the face and head. While she was still       suffering the effects of the TASER, he repeatedly hit her in       the head with a baseball bat, punched her multiple times in       the face, and then sexually assaulted her. In 2018, a New       Jersey man threatened his girlfriend repeatedly with a TASER       in the course of raping her several times over multiple       incidents. Eventually, he carried through with his threat,       tasing her in the neck and raping and sodomizing her.

These incidents are both horrific and emblematic of a       larger issue: domestic abusers' use of weapons to exert power       and coercive control over their victims. Abusers threaten the       victim, the children, pets, and others. As a nation, we       should erect more barriers to domestic abusers acquiring       weapons, not demolish existing protections. But that is       exactly what H.R. 2189/S. 1283 would do by undermining laws       designed to keep so-called ``less-than-lethal projectile       devices,'' such as TASERs classified as firearms, and ghost       guns out of the hands of adjudicated abusers.

To be clear, despite their marketing, TASERs are not always       ``less-than-lethal,'' as claimed in H.R. 2189. Perhaps they       are less lethal than other firearms, but between 2012 and       2021, 538 people were killed by TASERs or stun guns. And       studies that have found TASERs have only minor health impacts       were not only primarily funded by the manufacturer, they did       not mimic real-life situations, having exclusively healthy       subjects, a short exposure time, and no long-term follow-up.       Moreover, domestic violence continues or for some populations       even escalates during pregnancy, and there is evidence that       the use of a TASER on a pregnant woman can cause her to       miscarry.

Under current federal law, adjudicated domestic abusers       (with a few notable exceptions) are prohibited from       possessing TASERs that are classified as firearms in addition       to ghost guns and traditional firearms. Removing such TASERs       and other ``less-than-lethal projectile devices'' modified to       be lethal from the definition of a ``firearm'' in 18 USC       921(a) will not only allow adjudicated domestic abusers to       acquire projectile weapons without a background check, it       will make it perfectly legal for a domestic abuser--and other       people convicted of violent and abhorrent crimes such as       felony child molestation--to possess these weapons. While       that might not be the intent of the bill authors, that will       be the real-life impact.

H.R. 2189/S. 1283 will have another chilling unintended       consequence: domestic abusers and others who are prohibited       under federal law from possessing firearms will modify       ``less-than-lethal projectile devices'' to circumvent federal       laws and regulations, including those regulating so-called       `ghost guns.' In 2022, an adjudicated domestic abuser who was       prohibited from possessing firearms used a ghost gun to       murder his three daughters in a Sacramento church during a       supervised visitation then murdered the chaperone and killed       himself. Unable to pass a background check, he assembled his       own firearm from untraceable gun parts which were unregulated       at the time. Since that incident, the Bureau of Alcohol,       Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives issued a regulation, upheld       by the United States Supreme Court in Bondi v. Vanderstock,       to require background checks and serial numbers on unfinished       frames and receivers and on some weapons parts kits. But only       firearms frames and receivers are thus regulated; removing       ``less-than-lethal projectile devices'' from the definition       of `firearm' in 18 USC 921(a) would also allow ghost guns       modified from such devices to proliferate among individuals       with criminal records. And since only firearms frames and       receivers are regulated, kits to modify such devices into       fully-lethal projectile weapons would be entirely legal and       unregulated. Plus, while the bill stipulates that ``less-      than-lethal projectile devices . . . must be designed and       intended to be used in a manner that is not likely to cause       death or serious bodily injury,'' the bill fails to prohibit       or even acknowledge the inevitable modification of ``less-      than-lethal projectile devices'' into entirely-lethal       projectile devices. Once again, adjudicated domestic abusers       who are prohibited from possessing firearms under federal law       would be legally permitted to possess a firearm-equivalent,       with the same lethal capacity, due simply to semantics.

So, now, let us return to the depraved domestic and sexual       violence offenders whose heinous acts were detailed in the       opening paragraph. Despite their use of TASERs to physically       and sexually abuse their intimate partners and the attendant       criminal convictions that would prohibit them from possessing       firearms, immediately upon their release from prison these       individuals would legally be permitted under federal law to       acquire TASERs and other high-powered ``less-than-lethal       projectile devices'' that today are classified as firearms.       Moreover, once they obtained such weapons, there would be no       barrier in federal law to obtain the necessary parts to       modify them into lethal projectile weapons.

The purpose of this bill is truly perplexing. Not only will       H.R. 2189/S. 1283 arm adjudicated domestic abusers and others       who pose a danger to public safety, it in no way achieves its       stated goals and is a solution in search of a problem. The       federal classification of TASERs as firearms in no way       precludes law enforcement agencies from accessing TASERs,       just as it does not preclude them from accessing an array of       any of the ``less-than-lethal'' devices currently classified       as firearms. Law enforcement agencies are easily able to       procure firearms, including ``less-than-lethal projective       devices'' currently classified as firearms, with many       civilian requirements for purchasing firearms--and federal       taxes--being waived. And contrary to a further argument in       support of H.R. 2189/S. 1283, removing ``less-than-lethal       projectile devices'' from the federal definition of a       `firearm' will not decrease law enforcement's liability for       the use of deadly force. In terms of federal law, both       regulations and courts have held that, on its own, the use of       TASERs and other ``less-than-lethal projectile devices'' does       not constitute deadly force. Moreover, even if that were not       the case, changing the federal definition of a firearm to       exclude TASERs and similar devices would in no way impact       liability for using deadly force, because such liability       outside the context of federal law enforcement is established       in state and local law, which H.R. 2189/S. 1283 cannot alter.

So what, then, is the purpose of H.R. 2189/S. 1283? Perhaps       it is to exempt individuals attempting to acquire TASERs and       similar devices from undergoing a background check. In that       case, the benefits to public safety are unclear, while we       have amply demonstrated the risks. Perhaps an individual       seeks to acquire such a device for self-protection. If the       individual does not have a prohibiting record, they should be       able to pass a firearms background check with no       inconvenience to themselves--most firearms background checks       take only a few minutes to complete. And if they do have a       prohibiting record, for the safety not only of victims and       survivors of domestic violence but for public safety more       broadly, they should not have access to either a ``less-than-      lethal'' device or a fully-lethal firearm.

For all of these reasons, we oppose H.R. 2189/S. 1283, and       we urge you to oppose it as well.            Sincerely,

Jewish Women International; Catholics for Family Peace       Education and Research Initiative; Congregation of Our Lady       of Charity of the Good Shepherd, U.S. Provinces; Hope Rise       Thrive; Interfaith Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual       Violence; Legal Momentum: The Women's Legal Defense and       Education Fund; National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of       the Good Shepherd; Nuns Against Gun Violence; Safe Havens       Interfaith Partnership Against Domestic Violence and Elder       Abuse; Sisters of Mercy of the Americas Justice Team; Ujima:       The National Center on Violence Against Women in the Black       Community; United Church of Christ.

Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, Democrats will continue to support law  enforcement innovation and the adoption of tools that keep everyone  safer, but we must oppose this misguided legislation that does not  promote innovation or de-escalation and will only put our law  enforcement, those experiencing domestic abuse, and others in danger.