Supporting H.R. the Combating Online Predators Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699202/supporting-hr-the-combating-online-predators-act


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6719, the  Combating Online Predators Act.

There are a number of teenagers and pre-teens who have lost their  lives to suicide because of sextortion. We are fighting against  criminal individuals and groups who seek out our children with no goal  other than to cause turmoil. Sextortion is a dangerous and sick  activity that has been increasingly used against children--so much so  that the FBI has released warnings on the growing risk this poses to  our kids, and the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children  (NCMEC) has reported a nearly 200 percent increase in attempts. As our  social landscape continues to evolve, placing our most vulnerable  population online more often, we must be prepared with the laws to  deter and punish bad actors.

These perpetrators have taken Al-generated images of their victims or  convinced the teens to send nude images of themselves and used them as  leverage for outrageous demands. Some perpetrators will demand  thousands of dollars--a request that is near impossible for the vast  majority of teens.

Teenagers worry about so many things: what they are going to wear for  homecoming, why their acne cannot seem to get under control, whether  they should go to college or trade school. They should not be worried  about someone catfishing them and using intimate images of them to  either coerce money from them or push them to self-harm.

From Michigan, to Kentucky, to Ohio, and Georgia, these schemes range  across the country. These sextortion operations are expanding, and we  must do what we can to help law enforcement and prosecutors bring these  evils to justice.

With this bill, we will provide prosecutors with additional tools to  hold perpetrators accountable for schemes in which they seek to obtain  explicit photos and videos of minors.

Our teenagers are in need of protection regardless of their  independence and maturity. I am proud to support this legislation to  ensure our teenagers can spend this pivotal moment in their lives  focusing on things that will positively shape them into adulthood. They  should have the chance to enjoy their teenage years without threat or  malice.

I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 6719, the  Combating Online Predators Act.