Trafficking Survivors Relief Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697180/trafficking-survivors-relief-act


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

The Trafficking Survivors Relief Act is very critical, bipartisan  legislation that would provide long-overdue relief to victims and  survivors of human trafficking to help them overcome the lasting  effects of being trafficked and allow them a chance to heal.

It recognizes their unique traumas, the immense challenges that they  face after escaping their exploitation, and their right to rebuild  their lives with some dignity and some respect.

Victims of trafficking are demeaned. They are dehumanized and coerced  by their traffickers, who do not see them as people but see them as  objects only to be bought, sold, and abused; but we see them, and we  must give them the help that they need and they deserve.

Too often, they emerge with criminal records directly tied to their  exploitation. These records follow them along their path long after  they are free, preventing them from finding a job, securing safe  housing, pursuing education, or even getting treatment for the trauma  that they have escaped.

The barriers they face as a result of their records often serve as  painful reminders of the abuse that they endured and can make survivors  vulnerable to even further exploitation.

Many States, including my State of Georgia, have already passed laws  like the Trafficking Survivors Relief Act. It is past time that we take  similar steps to do this on the Federal level. By allowing survivors to  expunge arrests or vacate nonviolent convictions connected to their  trafficking, we give them a chance to reclaim their futures and move  forward without the weight of their past being used against them.

Just as we must allow them the ability to shed the lasting remnants  of their victimization, we must also provide them with resources and  services that they desperately need. Survivors need strong and  consistent Federal support to stay safe and move forward.

Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, we must ensure our government continues to  invest in prevention services and enforcement that keeps survivors  protected. Any cuts or weakened efforts will risk putting them back in  harm's way or back in the streets, and we cannot allow that to happen.

This bill is about justice, healing, and true restoration. It affirms  that survivors are more than the crimes that they are forced to commit.  They are human beings deserving of opportunity, safety, and hope.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support putting survivors first  and support this bipartisan legislation. I thank Representatives Fry  and Johnson for championing this effort. I look forward to working  together to ensure that survivors are seen, supported, and given every  chance that they can to thrive.