Trump's First 100 Days


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690638/trumps-first-100-days


Mrs. McBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank so much my esteemed colleagues,  Representative Kamlager-Dove and Representative Brown, for their  leadership in tonight's CBC Special Order hour. It is the most  opportune time for us to be able to talk directly to the American  people about the truth of this White House and its administration.

Mr. Speaker, last week marked the first 100 days of the second Trump  administration, and on behalf of my constituents in Georgia and an  ever-growing number of American people, I am here tonight to continue  speaking out against the chaos, the division, and the indefensible  hatred that is being sown by this President and this administration.

Just over 100 days in and the American people are exceedingly worried  and exhausted. They are exhausted by the uncertainty that has defined  this Presidency. They are fatigued by the endless cascade of bad news  from every corner of our Federal Government. They are bone weary by the  fear of the impact these reckless actions continue to have on our  working families.

For Black Americans, in particular, the Trump administration has made  direct attacks on our communities and emboldened extreme hatred and  bigotry. The symbolism of using the Presidency to eliminate  foundational programs cannot be understated. He has used the most  powerful office to dismantle foundational policies and scapegoat the  American citizens.

These attacks have material consequences: The uncertainty surrounding  the future of longstanding Federal programs harms the most vulnerable  populations that we serve.

Just last week, I toured a Head Start site in my home State of  Georgia and heard directly from parents and educators about the vital  role these childcare programs play in supporting the economic success  of families with young children. Head Start affords working families  the peace of mind that their children will be cared for and educated  during the workday.

Recent White House budget documents show that the administration has  backed down, for now, in some of their attacks on Head Start and the  resources that are helping our families, but we can't stop our advocacy  until these programs are absolutely protected.

The continued actions of the so-called Department of Government  Efficiency, DOGE, to dismantle the Federal workforce also have a  devastatingly outsized impact on Black Americans. Federal Government  work has long been a path to upward mobility for those seeking a career  in public service and the elimination of tens of thousands of positions  across our Federal workforce will continue to hurt families in our  communities.

I grew up in the heart of the civil rights movement. As a child, I  saw my father and my mother take a stand against those who legislated  against our freedoms and our rights as Americans. Mr. Speaker, 60 years  later, those same forces are animating the actions of this  administration. We cannot afford to go back in time. Though I know so  many across the country are dealing with the feelings of exhaustion and  hopelessness, we cannot grow complacent. We cannot succumb to the  forces of fear, hatred, and bigotry.

The work the Congressional Black Caucus and House Democrats are  taking up just reinforces our resistance to the division that we are  living and seeing at this very moment. Together, we are using every  legislative tool at our disposal to fight back against these reckless  actions.

Mr. Speaker, I, once again, want America to know that the Democrats  and the Congressional Black Caucus and all of the other tri-caucuses  are fighting every single day for you. We are using our voices to speak  up and sound the alarm on the harm this administration is causing  communities all across this country and we are doing so with  unflappable energy and determination.

As Democrats, we know that our light shines in the darkness and the  darkness shall not overcome it. Just as I sang as a little girl during  the civil  rights movement: ``Deep in my heart, I do believe that we shall  overcome someday.''