Following Sinema Request, FEMA Extends Deadline for Disaster and Emergency Grants Due to Coronavirus


Following a request from Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema, FEMA extended the deadlines for five preparedness grants. Sinema requested FEMA extend the grant application deadlines for preparedness grants, which provide nearly $1.8 billion to states, local, tribal, and territorial governments, as well as nonprofit organizations and the private sector to improve the nation's readiness during disasters and emergencies. "Extending the deadline for critical grant applications strengthens Arizona's ability to recover and lets Arizona cities, agencies, non-profits stay focused on keeping Arizonans healthy and safe from coronavirus," said Sinema. Sinema recently urged the Small Business Administration (SBA) to approve Arizona's application requesting a SBA Disaster Declaration. This declaration allows Arizona businesses to apply for Economic Injury Disaster Loans to help small businesses handle the economic losses caused by COVID-19. Sinema voted for two Congressionally-approved packages to address the coronavirus. These bills included Sinema's provisions ensuring respirators used by patients and health workers have liability coverage and are available for Arizona communities and that COVID-19 tests are free. Sinema wrote to Vice President Pence and the White House Task Force about the government's need to implement a single online webform that would allow the CDC to directly collect information from travelers and provide a more complete, accurate, and timely collection of data. Sinema also wrote VA about steps it's taking to protect the health of veterans and staff. Sinema also wrote to the Vice President to ensure tribal leaders have the resources they need through the Indian Health Service, tribal health departments, and urban Indian health programs to keep their communities safe. Sinema has also added a resources page to her website, www.sinema.senate.gov, for Arizonans looking for the latest information on coronavirus.