Letter to Hon. Jovita Carranza, Small Business Administration Administrator - Sinema Calls on Federal Government to Immediately Reopen the Economic Injury Disaster Loan Application


Dear Administrator Carranza:

I am writing to express my grave concern with the Small Business Administration (SBA)'s management of the Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) program, and to request that the EIDL portal reopen and begin accepting new applications immediately.

The EIDL program provides crucial low-interest loans and emergency grants to Arizona small businesses and nonprofits. On April 16, 2020, the EIDL portal unexpectedly closed to new applicants due to a lack of funds. It became apparent that even the SBA was surprised by this sudden lapse in appropriations, as there was no effort to advise Congress or the public about the limited funding available for the program before it ran out.

On April 24, 2020, the EIDL received an additional appropriation of $60 billion for both loans and emergency grants. However, the SBA has, to date, not reopened the application portal. Additionally, section 101(c) of the interim funding bill expanded eligibility for the EIDL to include agricultural enterprises with fewer than 500 employees. Since they became eligible, not one farmer or rancher has been afforded the opportunity to apply for essential economic relief. This is unacceptable and represents a failing of the SBA.

To that end, I request that the SBA:1. Immediately announce the reopening of the EIDL application portal,2. Commit to daily updates on the status of funding for the EIDL loan program and the EIDL emergency grant program, and3. Provide weekly statistics on total applications received, total applications approved, total applications denied, and the time it took for each application to move through the process from application submission to disbursement of funds.

Furthermore, the SBA, in consultation with the Treasury Department, must determine the funding that will be necessary to adequately resource these important programs for the duration of the COVID-19 crisis and share this estimate with Congress. Business owners should not be left wondering whether their application will be reviewed before funding runs dry.

Ninety-nine percent of Arizona businesses are small businesses that employ almost 44 percent of Arizona's workforce. Arizona's recovery from this emergency depends on the federal government's efficient and effective management of the EIDL program. To date, the ham-handed response from Washington has endangered countless livelihoods and threatens businesses that Arizonans have dedicated their lives to building. They deserve a government that can provide relief when it is needed most.

I appreciate your prompt attention to this matter. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact Anthony Papian at Anthony_Papian@hsgac.senate.gov.