Letter to Steven Mnuchin, Secretary of the Treasury, and Jovita Carranza, Administrator of the Small Business Administration - Sinema Calls on Agencies to Immediately Allow Tribal Communities Access to the Paycheck Protection Program


Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Administrator Carranza:

I am writing to express my concern with the treatment of tribal business concerns under thePaycheck Protection Program (PPP). I request that the Small Business Administration (SBA), inconsultation with the U.S. Department of the Treasury, quickly address the serious economicdistress that is being imposed on tribal gaming operations by the interim final rule titled "BusinessLoan Program Temporary Changes; Paycheck Protection Program -- Additional Eligibility Criteriaand Requirements for Certain Pledges of Loans."

Under section 2(b) of the interim rule, gaming operations, including tribal gaming operations, mustcertify that their revenues did not exceed $1 million and comprised less than 50 percent of theirtotal revenue in 2019. While the rule does depart from 13 CFR ยง120.110(g)'s requirement that notmore than one-third of a business's gross annual revenue come from gaming, it is clear from theadditional limitations imposed by the rule that it is not intended to apply to qualified tribal gamingoperations, but rather only to much smaller non-tribal gaming businesses. The rule impairs theability of qualified Indian tribes, already a historically marginalized population, to provide jobs intheir communities. Furthermore, such a limited scope goes against the directives of the CARESAct and fails to recognize the importance of congressional action in previous emergencyappropriations.

During the Great Recession, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (111 P.L. 5,123 Stat. 115), which was legislation meant to stimulate the economy and prevent further erosionof financial markets, placed specific limitations on funds for gaming operations. Section 1402explicitly prohibited the issuance of Tribal Economic Development Bonds to finance class II andclass III gaming operations. Section 1604 prohibited the use of any funds "appropriated orotherwise made available" in the act for "casino or other gambling establishment[s]".

The CARES Act made no such statements to limit availability of funds to certain enterprises undersection 1102, which created the PPP. Instead, the act explicitly expanded access to needed capital to entities previously prohibited from participation in the 7(a) loan program. Tribal businessconcerns are named as a class of business eligible for participation under this section, albeit withan obviously erroneous reference to the Small Business Act (P.L. 85-596, as amended by P.L. 114-125) that is corrected later in the same title of the law. Congress is well aware that tribal gamingoperations are often tribal business concerns operated by tribal governments or as separate entities.Yet, Congress did not preemptively prohibit PPP funds for these entities. This lack of action, inspite of common knowledge, provides all the context necessary for the SBA and TreasuryDepartment to determine congressional intent.Unlike state and local governments, tribes do not have a tax base to generate revenue. Funding fortribal programs comes from tribally owned enterprises or the federal government. As a result ofthe COVID-19 pandemic, tribal funds are stretched by expenditures critical to protect public healthand safety. Excluding a class of business that has been recognized as a primary employer on manytribal reservations from the PPP is unconscionable. This prohibition robs thousands, includingmany non-Indians who work at these establishments, of their paychecks and health insurance.It is imperative that the SBA and Treasury Department act at once to amend the rule to allow fullparticipation by tribal business concerns, without regard to their engagement in class II or IIIgaming as defined by section 4 of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (P.L. 100-497).I appreciate your prompt attention to this matter. If you have any questions, please contact AnthonyPapian on my staff at Anthony_Papian@hsgac.senate.gov.Sincerely,