Letter to Hon. Jovita Carranza, Small Business Administration Administrator - Sinema Calls for Immediate Relief for Arizona Small Businesses


Dear Administrator Carranza:

I am writing to express my continued frustration and concern with the Small Business Administration (SBA)'s management of the Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) program, and to request that steps be immediately taken to identify and process long-outstanding advances and loans.

The EIDL program provides crucial low-interest loans and emergency grants to Arizona small businesses and nonprofits. However, management of the EIDL program by the SBA has not provided the safety net intended by Congress, and continues to place unnecessary stress and hardship on Arizonans.

SBA employees have advised my staff that, due to the unprecedented nature of this disaster and the need for and interest in the program, an individual applying for EIDL support is likely to wait for three weeks before receiving any response from the SBA. Many Arizonans, however, have been forced to wait much longer.

My staff has attempted -- on multiple occasions -- to inquire about applications submitted as early as March that have still not been processed. The SBA has responded with vague stock answers and promises to elevate the request to leadership. Unfortunately, no real response has ever been provided. Currently, my staff is waiting on responses from the SBA regarding the status of over 300 EIDL applications that have been pending review for at least three weeks.

To that end, I request that the SBA:1. Take immediate action to address the backlog of applications for the EIDL program, giving priority to those applications that have waited the longest,2. Provide information on my list of over 300 outstanding EIDL applications that have been waiting for approval for more than three weeks, and3. Immediately provide information regarding the number of received applications that originated in the state of Arizona and, of those, the number of applications pending review, the number of applications approved, the number of applications denied, and a breakdown of wait times endured by Arizonans.

Ninety-nine percent of Arizona businesses are small businesses that employ almost 44 percent of Arizona's workforce. Arizona's recovery from this economic crisis depends on the federal government's efficient and effective management of the EIDL program. To date, the ham- handed response from Washington has endangered countless livelihoods and threatened businesses that Arizonans have dedicated their lives to building. They deserve a government that can provide relief when it is needed most.

I appreciate your prompt attention to this matter. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact Anthony Papian at Anthony_Papian@hsgac.senate.gov.