Letter to Robert Redfield, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Romney, Sinema Urges Centers for Disease Control to Implement Contact Tracing System to Protect Arizonans from Coronavirus Spread


Dear Director Redfield:

Thank you for your work, and that of everyone at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, toprotect our nation from the spread of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus. The challenge we face is enormous, inlarge measure because so little is known about this disease. To address the lack of information that hashampered some federal response efforts, the CDC should expand and strengthen its capabilities todevelop near real-time reporting of outbreaks such as COVID-19. We will be ready and willing partnersin that effort.

We recognize the CDC has already put significant effort into reporting cases and outcomes of COVID-19thus far, including specific updates in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), theNational Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System, the National Syndromic SurveillanceProgram's BioSense Platform, and the Influenza-like Illness Surveillance Network. This work is vitallyimportant, but may not be enough to equip us to respond as fast as is required -- particularly as statesmove toward plans to re-open businesses, schools, and retail locations.

Despite having a world-class public health system, COVID-19 exposed many vulnerabilities in the UnitedStates' ability to proactively monitor and mitigate the spread of a novel infectious disease outbreak. Ourpublic health biosurveillance and data collection should be able to provide comprehensive, near real-timereporting. Currently, fewer than 10 percent of nationally notifiable disease reports are submitted in aformat that allows for near real-time analysis.5 It is critical CDC support the modernization of statepublic health data systems to ensure they have the data to inform public health actions and work withstates and other stakeholders to implement a more robust data gathering system to provide near real-timevisibility into the size and scope of the COVID-19 outbreak on a national level; track, triage, and quicklyrespond to hotspots; and prepare our nation for the next pandemic.

We are deeply concerned federal public health officials are behind the curve in assessing public healththreat levels, because they lack immediate visibility into population health data. Any differences betweenstate reporting methods create a lag in data analysis, and this lag, in turn, hampers the federalgovernment's ability to assist state and local governments, appropriately distribute resources, or makesustainable and effective policy decisions. It is imperative that interagency decisions, which impact alllevels of government, are based on real-time needs and threats assessments. Further, in our shared goal ofprotecting public health, Congress must be equipped with more complete information to facilitate new pathways for the agency, remove any legislative impediments, and work seamlessly with our counterpartsin our home states.

Many experts have called for disease monitoring programs, similar to existing influenza monitoring, totrack infection and spread rates while an outbreak is in its infancy, before escalation.6,7 Such a systemnecessarily functions with information from state and local health departments, close coordination withproviders and local hospital systems, and can provide high-quality granular data to tailor interventionsearly. Only with robust near real-time reporting can our nation effectively respond to COVID-19 andfuture pandemics.

This week's supplemental COVID-19 funding provided the agency an additional $1 billion for publichealth data surveillance and analytics infrastructure modernization, test reporting, and workforce support.A public health biosurveillance and data collection system for COVID-19 must, at a minimum, includethe following, while protecting individual privacy:1) Aggregated case information from state and local health departments, physicians, hospitals,labs, and coroners;2) Rates of hospitalization from the disease broken down by underlying health conditions thatmay contribute to the health outcome;3) Patient treatment regimens associated with each underlying health condition and outcomes;4) Rates of intensive care unit admissions, duration of stay, recovery data, and mortality; and5) Appropriate demographic information.

Such a surveillance system will also allow the agency to provide a more comprehensive report toCongress, as required in the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. We urgethe CDC to quickly make much needed investments in public health surveillance and data systemsthroughout the country to improve near real-time reporting of outbreaks and strengthen our diseasemonitoring systems as soon as possible.

If there are statutory constraints or other barriers that prevent the CDC from implementing a more robustpublic health surveillance and data collection system, we will work to address any such barriers asappropriate to improve our national capacity to detect infectious diseases.

This is neither the first infectious disease pandemic in the United States, nor will it be the last. Now is thetime to establish the infrastructure for real-time, robust reporting, to prepare us for a potential secondwave of COVID-19 and any future pandemic.

Thank you for your service to our nation and for your consideration of this urgent matter.

Sincerely,