Letter to the Hon. Robert Wilkie, Secretary of the Dept. of Veterans Affairs - Tester, colleagues urge transparency in VA disability claims process during COVID-19 outbreak


Dear Secretary Wilkie,

We write concerned about the Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA) guidance regardingCompensation and Pension (C&P) examinations during the COVID-19 pandemic. TheDepartment must issue clear guidance to its Regional Offices (ROs), those who perform C&Pexaminations and potential beneficiaries so that veterans are not needlessly confused or harmedduring this unprecedented time.

For example, we were disappointed to learn that veterans, including those in high-riskhealth groups, were still required to go to C&P exams until early April, exposing themselves tounneeded risk and potentially putting their health in jeopardy. Veterans should not have beenunnecessarily forced from their homes during this COVID-19 pandemic. Veterans are normallycautioned to not miss their scheduled C&P exams because it can cause delay in the adjudicationof their claims as they wait for new appointments. However, during a pandemic we cannotcontinue operating business-as-usual. It is critical for VA to have reasonable expectations ofveterans for completing examinations during this time. As such, we need additional informationabout VA's new process and procedures for C&P exams.

We would appreciate information on VA's plan for suspending in-person C&Pexaminations and how those suspensions will affect a veteran's claim. We also requestinformation on how VA plans to continue completing Disability Benefits Questionnaires throughthe Acceptable Clinical Evidence (ACE) initiative, including the use of any necessarysupplemental Tele-C&P examination. And how will virtual C&P exams be conducted forveterans in rural America without access to reliable broadband or those veterans with lowincomes who may lack internet access, computers or smart phone capabilities? How will VAaddress veterans' missed virtual or Tele-C&P Exams? It is our understanding that VA isdenying conditions associated with missed Tele-C&P and virtual exams appointments, ratherthan deferring a decision until an appointment can be completed. We would like VA to clarifyits guidance to ROs on deferment or cancellation of C&P exams during this epidemic, includingwhether partial ratings will be issued for conditions that have the appropriate evidence to berated. For a veteran's deferred C&P exams, how will VA maintain his or her priority in thequeue? Veterans should not lose their place in line for circumstances beyond their controlbecause of this COVID-19 national emergency. 

Finally, news reports indicate VA rushed to set up a tracking mechanism to identify eachtime a veteran reported that VA or a contractor incorrectly informed them that they must reportfor an in-person C&P exam during the pandemic. We request information regarding the trackingmechanism or database, including, but not limited to: when VA put the tracking system in place;how many veterans, by RO, reported for in-person C&P exams after March 13, 2020; and whichcontractors or VA facility required these in-person exams. We have a responsibility to ensureaccountability and transparency of the processes put in place on behalf of our nation's veterans.To provide appropriate oversight over this process, we also request a breakdown of the numberof veterans undergoing a C&P examination since March 1, 2020, and whether thoseexaminations were conducted in-person, through the ACE initiative or virtually. Please providethis data by RO on a weekly basis moving forward.

Although we certainly understand there are challenges presented to VA of providingC&P exams to veterans under the current situation, we would welcome VA identifying anyadditional needs in order to improve veterans' C&P examination experience during thispandemic. Thank you for your attention to the issues raised in this letter and we look forward toyour prompt response.

Sincerely,