Letter to Steven Mnuchin, Secretary of the Treasury - Following Discussions with Arizona and County Leaders, Sinema Urges Treasury Department to Help Arizona Towns Access Coronavirus-Relief Funding


Dear Secretary Mnuchin:

I write to request additional guidance for the Coronavirus Relief Fund, authorized under Title Vof the CARES Act (P.L. 116-136). To ensure appropriate distribution of funds to state, local, andtribal governments, the U.S. Department of the Treasury should act quickly to issue guidanceregarding their equitable disbursement.

The unprecedented, nationwide fight against the coronavirus is stretching state, county, andmunicipal budgets, all while local tax revenues continue to dwindle. Arizona municipalities tellme that they forecast revenue declines of over 20 percent when accounting for the effects of theCOVID-19 pandemic. This severely limits their ability to provide basic, essential services that allAmericans expect and deserve from their government.

As the Treasury Department publishes guidance clarifying the distribution of Title V funds bystates, I encourage you to issue guidance that:* Explicitly affirms that counties with populations under 500,000 individuals are eligible toreceive a portion of the funds allocated to each state;* Ensures states institute processes that treat counties and municipalities as partners indetermining the disbursement of funds and considers the unique characteristics andconcerns of rural communities;* Acknowledges the indirect effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on county andmunicipality budgets; and* Requires the utilization of the most current American Community Survey (ACS) datafrom the U.S. Census Bureau in determining the proper disbursement of funds.

In our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, all levels of government must continue to operate as efficiently and effectively as possible. Delayed, insufficient funding threatens the livelihoods of Arizonans. I respectfully request the swift publication of guidance related to the distribution ofthese Title V funds.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. If you have questions or require additionalinformation, please do not hesitate to contact Michael Wong on my staff at Michael_Wong@sinema.senate.gov.

Sincerely,