Senators Rick Scott and Kyrsten Sinema Introduce Bill to Lower Health Insurance Deductibles for American Families


Today, Senators Rick Scott and Kyrsten Sinema introduced the Lower Health Insurance Deductibles Act to give American families more flexibility in how they pay for health insurance. The bill would grant insurance companies the ability to split the deductible of a HSA (Health Savings Account) eligible High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) between drug and medical benefits.

 

Currently, HSA eligible HDHPs must have a minimum deductible of $1,400. However, most individuals will not reach this deductible because they seek limited medical services a year, and are stuck paying out-of-pocket for their prescriptions. Under the Lower Health Insurance Deductibles Act, the HDHP could split the total deductible to, for example, a $1,100 medical deductible with a $300 drug deductible. This would give consumers with chronic conditions more flexibility to meet their deductible.

 

Senator Rick Scott said, "With the skyrocketing costs of prescription drugs, we should be doing everything we can to increase affordability for American families. Allowing flexibility in how health plans split deductibles is one easy way we can lower healthcare costs and give families more value when it comes to their health plans. Splitting the deductible between medical and drug benefits makes it easier for patients to reach their deductible and get their medications at a lower cost. This is a huge help to the 6 in 10 adults living with chronic disease."

 

Senator Kyrsten Sinema said, "Arizonans need more flexibility with their insurance plans to lower out-of-pocket costs. I'm ensuring Arizonans who depend on expensive medicines like insulin can choose insurance with lower drug deductibles so their plans works better for them."

 

The Lower Health Insurance Deductibles Act does not create any mandates, but rather gives health plans more flexibility to split deductibles, making healthcare more affordable for families.