Sinema: Resources for Small Businesses, Hospitals, Testing Are Necessary Next Step


Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema released the following statement supporting the Senate's coronavirus relief package providing critical resources for Arizona's businesses, hospitals, and testing capacity.  "Today's critical support for small businesses and hospitals is a necessary next step, and more must be done. I'll continue working across the aisle to get Arizona the support needed to save lives and livelihoods. Everyday Arizonans are doing their part to overcome this crisis; the federal government must do the same," said Sinema. Today's Senate-passed package includes $310 billion for the Paycheck Protection Program, $60 billion for smaller, disadvantaged businesses, $60 billion for Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDL) and grants, $75 billion for health care providers, and $25 billion for testing, including $11 billion directly to states. Sinema has been holding weekly calls with Arizona small business owners on which she hears directly about the need for increased resources. Sinema called for an increase to the Paycheck Protection Program two weeks ago, and has continually advocated for increased funding for Arizona small businesses. Sinema also called on the Small Business Administration and the Treasury Secretary to increase funding for the EIDL program.  Sinema has also been holding regular calls with Arizona mayors, county leaders, hospitals, and rural health care providers, and she heard directly from Arizona providers that more coronavirus testing was needed. Additionally, many mayors asked for a national testing strategy. Sinema worked to include additional funding for testing and a national strategic testing plan outlining the assistance that will be provided to states for testing and increasing testing capacity in the bill. Sinema helped secure a number of priorities in the sweeping coronavirus-response CARES Act law, including a $150 billion relief fund for state, local, and Tribal governments, $55 billion more in investments in hospitals and health care workers, and an increase in unemployment benefits. Sinema recently wrote an op-ed outlining Arizona needs she is working to include in the next coronavirus-response legislation.