Sinema Hosts Third Call with Airzona Majors and County Leaders to Answer Coronavirus-Related Questions


Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema hosted her weekly call with 215 Arizona mayors and county leaders about their coronavirus-related concerns, how to access coronavirus-relief assistance, and what Sinema is fighting for in the next coronavirus-relief legislative package. "Hearing directly from local leaders helps inform what is needed in the next coronavirus-relief bill to ensure Arizona has the health resources, food assistance, and small business support needed," said Sinema. 215 Arizona mayors and county leaders joined Sinema on their weekly call to discuss the CARES Act, State Stabilization Fund, SBA implementation, the next Congressional coronavirus-relief package, and other coronavirus-related concerns and hear how to access coronavirus relief resources. Sinema is also holding regular calls with Arizona non-profit leaders, small business owners, and first responders. As of Thursday, April 9, Arizona confirmed 3,018 COVID-19 cases and 89 deaths. The exponential growth poses a risk for the public health of all Arizonans. Sinema recently led the Arizona delegation's request for a Major Disaster Declaration, which allows Arizona to receive the needed response resources to reduce the risk of overwhelming the state's hospitals and health care industry. This week, Sinema held calls with Tribal leaders, Arizona hospital leaders, doctors in rural communities, Arizona seniors, and more to discuss Arizona's coronavirus relief efforts and the need for further Congressional action. Sinema helped secure a number of priorities in the sweeping coronavirus-response CARES Act law, including a $150 billion relief fund for state, local, and Tribal governments, $55 billion more in investments in hospitals and health care workers, and an increase in unemployment benefits. Sinema recently wrote a column in the Arizona Republic stressing what else must be included in the next Congressional coronavirus-relief bill.