Sinema Backs Bipartisan Bill Helping Arizonans Access Home Modification Programs


Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema cosponsored the bipartisan Senior and Disability Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act, which increases access to federal programs that help Arizonans fund home modifications to accommodate seniors and individuals with disabilities. "Increasing access to funding and tools for home modifications helps Arizonans stay safely and comfortably in their homes, while easing the burden on caregivers," said Sinema, a member of the Senate Aging Committee. The bipartisan Senior and Disability Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act requires the Administration for Community Living to coordinate and raise awareness for federal programs that fund medically-necessary home modifications for seniors and individuals with disabilities. Additionally, the bipartisan legislation requires the Administration for Community Living to establish an education campaign that ensures individuals in need are aware of resources for which they qualify. Arizona seniors and individuals with disabilities, and their caregivers face high costs for home modifications, such as ramps, chair lifts, and shower grab bars. These costly modifications, necessary for seniors and individuals with disabilities to safely remain at home, can be difficult to pay out of pocket and can cause financial strain on Arizonans. Sinema's bipartisan legislation ensures the federal government raises awareness amongst Arizonans of the resources available to them to defray the high costs of home modifications.  Sinema's backing of the bipartisan Senior and Disability Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act is part of her work in the Senate to support Arizona caregivers. Recently, Sinema cosponsored the bipartisan Credit for Credit Act which provides Arizona caregivers a tax credit to cover the costs associated with caregiving. The Sinema-backed bipartisan bill is also cosponsored by Senators Angus King (I-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME).