Sinema Welcomes American Legion to Senate Veterans' Affairs Hearing


Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema spoke in a Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee hearing about her partnership with the American Legion to establish a pilot site for Project ATLAS in Arizona. Project ATLAS is a partnership between the VA, Philips Health Care Systems, and the American Legion to deploy remote telehealth exam rooms--connecting veterans with the VA--to regions where such connections are difficult to establish. Sinema discussed the importance of Project ATLAS and the need for telehealth to ensure all Arizona veterans get the care they've earned in last month's veterans roundtable in Kingman, Arizona.  "It was a pleasure working with the American Legion to pass the LEGION Act, and I am excited to work with you again to establish a pilot site for Project ATLAS in Arizona. Arizona's rural veterans will be greatly served by this partnership," said Sinema, a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. Sinema thanked Commander Oxford for their partnership in pass the LEGION Act--Sinema's bipartisan legislation that extended American Legion membership to veterans who served in non-declared conflicts, which became law last year. Sinema discussed the importance to improve access to care for military sexual assault survivors and ways to make military sexual trauma care more available to survivors. Sinema also addressed during the hearing the VA's workforce shortage that impacts VA's ability to provide timely, quality care to Arizona veterans. As a champion of the bipartisan MISSION Act, Sinema examined with Commander Oxford ways the VA's implementation of the law ensure Arizona veteran caregivers are better integrated into the patient care team. The Veterans Network of Support Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Sinema, implements a program that provides information to loved ones about VA programs and services so family members and friends can better support Arizona veterans. Sinema's bipartisan legislation supports Arizona veterans during their transition from military to civilian life. Last year, Sinema championed into law similar legislation--the bipartisan Sgt. Daniel Somers Network of Support Act, which provides servicemembers' loved ones with information about benefits and services available to military members.