Sinema Introduces Bipartisan Bill Supporting Identity Theft Victims


Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema and Republican Senator Chuck Grassley (Iowa) introduced the Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act--bipartisan legislation making it easier for identity theft victims to resolve their cases by cutting red tape and creating a single point of contact at the Social Security Administration for identity theft cases. "Arizonans victimized by scammers should be able to easily resolve their issues with the Social Security Administration. Our bill cuts red tape and simplifies Arizonans' ability to get needed help after identity theft," said Sinema.  Sinema's legislation is endorsed by the AARP, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare (NCPSSM), Social Security Works, Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC), National Council of Social Security Management Associations (NCSSMA), and the National Organization of Social Security Claimants' Representatives (NOSSCR). Sinema has long championed Arizonans who have fallen victim to illegal scams. Recently, the Senate passed Sinema's bipartisan Slam the Scam Resolution, designating March 5th as "National Slam the Scam Day." While Sinema was in the U.S. House, she worked with the Chair of the Senate Aging Committee, Republican Senator Susan Collins (Maine), to pass the Senior Safe Act into law, empowering financial institutions to report suspected instances of elder financial abuse and fraud. In the U.S. Senate, Sinema and Senator Collins have continued their work by introducing the Senior Security Act, which would create a task force at the Securities and Exchange Commission to protect seniors from financial crimes, and the Anti-Spoofing Penalties Modernization Act, which would increase penalties for criminals who use robocalls to harass seniors and veterans. While serving in the U.S. House, Sinema also partnered with Republican Senator Tim Scott (South Carolina) to pass the Protecting Children from Identity Theft Act, requiring the Social Security Administration to develop a database to facilitate the verification of consumer information upon request by a certified financial institution to especially protect children who are often targeted for identity theft. She also successfully advocated on behalf of Arizona parents and children to cut red tape at the Social Security Administration, ensuring victims of identity theft can get new Social Security Numbers and the fresh start they deserve.