Sinema Helps Secure Critical Personal Protective Equipment for Arizona Community Health Centers During the Coronavirus Outbreak


Today, Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema announced General Dynamics is donating personal protective equipment to the Arizona Alliance of Community Health Centers through Protect AZ, an Arizona non-profit connecting front-line health care workers to critical medical equipment during the coronavirus outbreak. Sinema facilitated the donation and connected General Dynamics to the Arizona Alliance of Community Health Centers so health care workers in vulnerable communities across Arizona have the protection they need.  "General Dynamics' generous donation of critical protective equipment will help protect Arizona health care workers and first responders on the front-lines of the coronavirus pandemic and save lives," said Sinema. "Our Arizona community based health centers are thankful for Senator Kyrsten Sinema's long standing support of local community health centers. Our health centers are on the frontlines each and every day assuring Arizonans can have access to needed primary care services. Health Centers expand primary care to include the integration of behavioral health, pharmacy, dental, and other related services. COVID 19 has challenged the wellbeing and health of our communities. The needed PPE supplies that Senator Sinema secured will allow us to continue to assess, treat, and when needed, transfer patients to a more intense level of care during this coronavirus pandemic. All of the Arizona Community Health Centers send a collective thank you to Senator Sinema," said John C. McDonald, RN, MS, CPHQ, CEO of Arizona Alliance of Community Health Centers. Following a call on April 3rd with Arizona defense leaders, Sinema contacted General Dynamics about donating personal protective equipment to Arizona health care workers in need. General Dynamics graciously agreed to donate gowns, gloves, and disinfectants to the Arizona Alliance of Community Health Centers. Protect AZ, an Arizona non-profit connecting front-line health care workers to critical medical equipment during the coronavirus outbreak, is helping Sinema's team and the Arizona Alliance of Community Health Centers receive and process General Dynamics' shipment.