Sinema Secures 7,500 Masks and 7,500 Acrylic Shields for Arizona Firefighters Through Ironman Foundation


Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema secured 7,500 masks and 7,500 acrylic shields for the Professional Firefighters of Arizona through the IRONMAN Foundation's Operation IRONAID Face Masks in partnership with Framebridge. "Arizona's firefighters put their lives on the line to protect us. As the coronavirus outbreak continues, our firefighters' supply of critical protective equipment is in danger. IRONMAN's generous donation of masks and shields will protect our firefighters so they can keep Arizona communities safe during this public health crisis," said Sinema. "We are so proud of our IRONMAN community and partners like Framebridge who, in just a short amount of time, have come together with solutions for keeping those on the front lines safe," said IRONMAN Foundation Executive Director Sarah Hartmann.  "We are honored to make the first donation of many to the Arizona Professional Firefighters Association and look forward to donating masks and face shields to first responders and healthcare professionals across the country in the days and weeks to come." "A lot of our first responders have been struggling with having enough PPE... When word that we were having these struggles to get PPE got to Arizona Senator Kyrsten Sinema's office, she jumped up and really helped us out, and I can't thank her enough. Kyrsten Sinema reached out to her friends at the IRONMAN Foundation to see if they could find solutions to help our people. The IRONMAN Foundation through IRONAID stepped up to give us a hand. With their partners over at Framebridge, they are supplying us with 7,500 masks and face shields which are going to go so far in helping our people as they go out there and care for these patients and take care of the public. On behalf of all the firefighters in the state of Arizona, thank you Senator Sinema, IRONMAN Foundation, and Framebridge," said Bryan Jeffries, President of Professional Firefighters of Arizona. Sinema's highest priority is keeping Arizonans healthy, safe, and economically secure. Throughout the coronavirus outbreak, Sinema has worked across the aisle and with local communities to ensure Arizonans have up-to-date, accurate information.  Sinema has been holding regular calls with Arizona mayors and county leaders, non-profit leaders, small business owners, and first responders about the coronavirus. Sinema helped secure a number of priorities in the sweeping coronavirus-response CARES Act law, including a $150 billion relief fund for state, local, and Tribal governments, $55 billion more in investments in hospitals and health care workers, and an increase in unemployment benefits.  Sinema recently facilitated a donation of personal protective equipment from General Dynamics to the Arizona Alliance of Community Health Centers through Protect AZ, an Arizona non-profit connecting front-line health care workers to critical medical equipment during the coronavirus outbreak. Sinema also led the Arizona Congressional delegation in urging the President to grant a Major Disaster Declaration for Arizona, allowing Arizona to access more public safety resources to combat the coronavirus outbreak.