Sinema-Backed Bill Makes Care More Affordable and Increases Access to Resources for Arizona Seniors During Coronavirus Outbreak


Arizona senior Senator Kyrsten Sinema cosponsored legislation backed by the Arizona Area Agencies on Aging and patient advocacy organizations that makes coronavirus treatments and care more affordable and increases Arizona seniors' access to meals on wheels. "Access to affordable care and resources to stay healthy is critical to protecting Arizona seniors during the coronavirus outbreak," said Sinema, a member of the Senate Aging Committee. The Sinema-backed bill specifically increases access to meals on wheels programs for seniors and disabled Arizonans, increases resources for in-home care, waives Medicare Part B copays for coronavirus-related treatments, and increases funding for infection control inspectors to ensure Arizona nursing homes that serve seniors and people with severe disabilities are safe and healthy. Sinema's bill follows her request that the Administration for Community Living ensure the Area Agencies on Aging in Arizona can continue to provide congregate meals and home delivered meals to our seniors and some of the most vulnerable to the coronavirus. Sinema voted for two Congressionally-approved packages to address the coronavirus. These bills included Sinema's provisions ensuring respirators used by patients and health workers have liability coverage and are available for Arizona communities and that COVID-19 tests are free from cost-sharing. Sinema wrote to Vice President Pence and the White House Task Force about the government's need to implement a single online webform that would allow the CDC to directly collect information from travelers and provide a more complete, accurate, and timely collection of data. Sinema also wrote VA about steps it's taking to protect the health of veterans and staff. Sinema also wrote to the Vice President to ensure tribal leaders have the resources they need through the Indian Health Service, tribal health departments, and urban Indian health programs to keep their communities safe. Sinema has also added a resources page to her website, www.sinema.senate.gov, for Arizonans looking for the latest information on coronavirus.