Swalwell to Co-Chair New Bicameral, Bipartisan Congressional Personalized Medicine Caucus


Today, Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Sen. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC), and Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN) launched the bicameral, bipartisan Congressional Personalized Medicine Caucus. This new caucus seeks to expand support for, and knowledge of, personalized medicine by enhancing public awareness of the field and advocating for policies in support of its advancement. The caucus will engage Members of Congress, staff, and the public in a constructive dialogue on how to best champion this cutting-edge approach to health care.

The four co-chairs will host a briefing on February 26 to introduce the caucus. It will take place from 11:00 a.m. -- 12:00 p.m. in the North Congressional Meeting Room of the U.S. Capitol Visitor Center (CVC 268). 

Personalized medicine, also known as precision or individualized medicine, is an emerging field that utilizes genetic and genomic testing to help improve patient diagnoses and customize medical treatments. By combining this information with patient records, values, and individual circumstances, physicians can work with patients to come up with comprehensive and holistic treatment plans that are best suited for them. 

"For too long and too often, our healthcare system has relied on a one-size-fits-all ideology when it comes to medicine," Swalwell said. "The Congressional Personalized Medicine Caucus will help us turn the page and make customizable health care attainable and accessible for all Americans."

  "Raising awareness of the benefits of personalized medicine helps detect and prevent diseases, while making health care more affordable and accessible for Arizona families," said Sinema. 

"Through the Personalized Medicine Caucus, we will take steps to nurture scientific advancements that may reverse the genetic and molecular causes of rare and common diseases, bringing new hope to American patients and lasting benefits to our healthcare system," Scott said. 

"The Personalized Medicine Caucus is an effort to bring Congressional attention to new biomedical innovations and advance policies that help American patients affected by cancer and other devastating diseases," said Emmer. "Our approaches to health care should be as diverse and individualized as the patients it serves. This effort will help bring that goal to fruition." 

The Congressional Personalized Medicine Caucus represents a huge step forward towards embracing precision medicine, which has the capacity to detect the onset of disease at its earliest stages, pre-empt the progression of a disease and increase the efficiency, affordability, and accessibility of the healthcare system.

 The Congressional Personalized Medicine Caucus is supported by the Personalized Medicine Coalition.