Announcement of the 2026 Congress-Bundestag/Bundesrat Exchange


Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, since 1983, the U.S. Congress  (House and Senate) and the German Bundestag and Bundesrat have  conducted an annual exchange program for staff members from both  countries. The program gives professional staff the opportunity to  observe and learn about each other's political institutions and engage  in discussion regarding mutual interest.

A staff delegation from the U.S. Congress will be selected to visit  Germany from Friday, October 2 through Sunday, October 11, 2026. During  this exchange, the delegation will attend meetings with Bundestag/ Bundesrat party staff members, and representatives of numerous  political, business, academic and media agencies.

A comparable delegation of German staff members will visit the United  States from Saturday, November 14 through Sunday, November 22, 2026.  They will attend similar meetings in Washington organized by the  members of the U.S. delegation.

The Congress-Bundestag/Bundesrat Exchange is highly regarded in  Germany and the United States and is one of several exchange programs  sponsored by public and private institutions in the United States and  Germany to foster better understanding of the politics and policies of  both countries. This exchange is funded by the U.S. Department of  State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.

The U.S. delegation shall consist of experienced and accomplished  Hill staff who can contribute to the success of the exchange on both  sides of the Atlantic. The Bundestag reciprocates by sending senior  staff professionals to the United States.

Applicants should have a demonstrable interest in events in Europe.  Applicants need not be working in the field of foreign affairs,  although such a background can be helpful. The composite U.S.  delegation should exhibit a range of expertise in issues of mutual  concern to the United States and Germany such as, but not limited to,  trade, security, the environment, economic development, health care,  and other social policy issues. This year's delegation should be  familiar with transatlantic relations within the context of recent  world events.

Please note that there is a significant time commitment aspect for  those selected for the program. In addition, U.S. participants are  expected to plan and implement the meetings and programs for the  Bundestag/Bundesrat staff members when they visit the United States.

Members of the House and Senate who would like a member of their  staff to apply for participation in this year's program should direct  them to submit a resume and cover letter in which they state their  qualifications, the contributions they can make to a successful program  and some assurances of their ability to participate during the time  stated.

Applications should be sent to the Office of Interparliamentary  Affairs, HC-4, the Capitol, by 5 p.m. on Friday, February 27, 2026.  Please submit your application and any questions to  interparliamentary.affairs@mail. house.gov.