Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696723/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Chairman  Cole, who has done an extraordinary job in this process.

Mr. Speaker, we all know why we are here. House Democrats voted to  shut down the government. It was 54 days ago when we had that vote. It  was September 19. Since that time, Senate Democrats have voted 14 times  to close the government. Republicans voted a collective 15 times to  open the government for the people, and the Democrats voted that many  times to close it.

Then they admitted, many of them--and we can name them here, but I am  not going to take the time--they admitted they were using the American  people as leverage in this political game. They knew that it would  cause pain, and they did it anyway. The whole exercise was pointless.  It was wrong. It was cruel.

In mere moments, I want everyone to watch the board. They will do it  again. I will guess most of our Democrat colleagues will vote again to  close the government, again to take food out of the mouths of families  who need it, again to deny pay to Federal employees, and again to stall  flights and cancel airlines and do all the rest that they have done. We  are not going to let them succeed in that gambit. That is right.

While the Democrats keep voting to shut the government down,  Republicans are going to vote to open it back up. We are going to get  the American Government running again and working for the people, as  they deserve.

I am going to close with this. As Speaker, I have the ability to talk  as long as I want, but I am not going to do that tonight. We are not  going to waste any more time of the people.

I am just going to say this. I think that everybody needs to remember  this one simple thing: From the very beginning of this whole ordeal, on  the Republican side, we operated in good faith. We offered a clean,  nonpartisan CR. We were honest and transparent with the American people  from the very beginning. Every single day of the shutdown, we went out  and looked right into the camera with a press conference and told the  American people the simple truth. We have done for the people what has  been right and just and truthful. In the end, that is what God honors  always. Don't forget it.

We need to get this government open as soon as possible. The American  people demand and deserve it.

Mr. Speaker, let's get this done.