Fairness for Servicemembers and Their Families Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689627/fairness-for-servicemembers-and-their-families-act-of-2025


Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Takano for  yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for my bill, H.R. 970, the  Fairness for Servicemembers and their Families Act of 2025.

I first thank Chairmen Bost and Luttrell and Ranking Members Takano  and McGarvey for working with me to get this bill to the floor. I also  thank my partners in this effort, Congressman Keith Self and Senator  John Cornyn.

The Fairness for Servicemembers and their Families Act will help  ensure that life insurance benefits for servicemembers and veterans  account for changes in the economy.

This bill will require the Department of Veterans Affairs to  periodically review and report on the maximum coverage available under  the Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Veterans' Group Life  Insurance. Accurate and reliable data will allow the VA to make  necessary policy adjustments to ensure accurate payments.

I have the honor of representing Joint Base Lewis-McChord, home to  tens of thousands of servicemembers and their families. Our  servicemembers courageously put their lives on the line for our  country, and we must secure the well-being of their families and loved  ones in the event of a tragedy.

Servicemembers' life insurance plans must keep pace with economic  demands. A robust life insurance policy can provide a grieving family  with the financial security they need to navigate the loss of their  loved ones and do so with dignity.

The brave men and women who sacrifice their lives deserve peace of  mind, knowing their families will be taken care of. For nearly two  decades, the maximum coverage of the Servicemembers' Group Life  Insurance and Veterans' Group Life Insurance programs has been  stagnant, even as the costs of housing, goods, and services have risen  over the past 20 years.

This bill ensures that these programs are reviewed periodically to  verify their value sufficiently and to make sure they are updated to  the current CPI or Consumer Price Index.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill. I thank my  colleagues for their unwavering commitment to supporting veterans. I  look forward to it being passed and signed into law.