Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


Mrs. KIM. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Kiley for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 516 to condemn the  violent riots in Los Angeles this month, and I thank our brave law  enforcement officers for keeping us safe.

I appreciate the heated debate and the conversation. I thank my  colleague (Mr. Kiley) for leading on the groundwork and for explaining  what led to the events that occurred last month in Los Angeles, which  explains that Federal agents were conducting immigration enforcement,  according to the law.

Mr. Speaker, protecting public safety should not be controversial.  This resolution is very simple. It recognizes a right to assemble and  protest peacefully, and it condemns unequivocally the violence  perpetrated against Federal, State, and local law enforcement. It calls  on local and State-elected leadership to work with the Federal  Government and restore peace. It also expresses gratitude to our local,  State, and Federal law enforcement officers for bravely keeping our  communities safe in the face of danger.

That is what this is about. Do you stand with our law enforcement  officers working to keep our communities safe and have the common sense  to call out rioters who commit vandalism, violence, property damage,  and other crimes in our streets?

Mr. Speaker, like others in the Chamber and many across this country,  I am an immigrant who came here legally in pursuit of the opportunities  that this country provides. I am proud to be an American, and I am  paying it forward to keep the American Dream alive for my children and  grandchildren.

Peaceful protests are a constitutional right we all cherish, and our  communities should not be living in fear. But peaceful protests and  freedom of assembly gave way to chaos in Los Angeles, as we witnessed a  few weeks ago.

We saw acts of arson, looting, property destruction, vandalism,  blocking streets and highways, lighting cars on fire, shooting  fireworks, throwing rocks at law enforcement vehicles, and even  assaulting Federal and local police officers. As a result, we saw more  than 500 rioters were arrested, and at least a dozen LAPD officers were  injured.

Local and State leadership clearly could not contain the chaos. The  riots have cost at least $30 million to pay overtime and repair  property damages to city buildings. This doesn't include the small  businesses and other private entities whose businesses fell victim to  the destruction.

We also know that the riots were enabled by California's soft-on- crime policies that have allowed for lawlessness and endangered public  safety.

Again, this resolution recognizes the right to assemble and protest  peacefully, condemns the violence against law enforcement, and calls on  local and State officials to work with the Federal Government to  restore peace. We thank our law enforcement. This is not controversial.