Uyghur Policy Act of 2025


Mrs. KIM. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative Baumgartner, for yielding and for managing  the floor today.

I rise in strong support of my bill, H.R. 2635, the Uyghur Policy Act  of 2025.

The Uyghur Policy Act of 2025 comes at a very important time. The  Chinese Communist Party continues to deny its genocide against the  Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities. We know that forced sterilization,  forced labor, brainwashing, and torture are rampant in the Xinjiang  Uyghur Autonomous Region.

Despite exposure of the CCP's crimes, Xi Jinping is doubling down. A  civil society investigation uncovered that the CCP's harassment and  forced transfer of Uyghur workers is more pervasive than previously  thought, with individuals relocated over 2,000 miles away from the  Uyghur region.

Meanwhile, Uyghur human rights advocates and family members of  detainees are intimidated and harassed by the CCP's transnational  repression and espionage campaigns abroad. The fact that this happens  here on U.S. soil is unacceptable and threatens our homeland.

The Uyghur Policy Act directs the Secretary of State to lead all  United States Government policies and programs that support Uyghurs and  other ethnic and religious minority groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur  Autonomous Region. It counteracts transnational repression against the  Uyghur diaspora and creates reporting mechanisms for Uyghur victims.

It also works to expose and disrupt Beijing's state-sponsored forced  labor programs that exploit Uyghurs in order to dominate vital  industries. This includes the cotton industry, where more than 20  percent of the world's cotton is a product of Uyghur forced labor. We  need to make sure that our economy is not subsidized by the CCP's human  rights abuses.

The United States must show through words and through actions that we  will have Uyghurs' backs in their fight against the CCP's tyranny. We  must leverage U.S. soft power, garner international support for Uyghurs  and other ethnic minorities, and equip the State Department with the  tools that it needs to effectively fight against Xi Jinping's genocidal  campaign.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative Ami Bera, for  leading this bipartisan legislation with me, and I urge my colleagues  to support it.