Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act


Mr. MESSMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address an issue affecting  both families and businesses in Indiana and across the United States,  which is the expensive, but essential, financial support workers need  to provide care for their young children and elderly parents.

Current law discourages employers from helping their workers pay for  onsite childcare or elderly dependent care because of the unreasonable  pay calculations that increase costs and burdensome regulations for the  company.

This guidance is so outdated. It was enacted in 1938, and we all know  things have come a long way since then when families did not use  daycare services for their little ones and elderly parents lived with  their adult children until death.

The current mandates of the Fair Labor Standards Act related to  dependent care drive up costs for businesses through unreasonable pay  calculations.

These expensive requirements naturally remove the incentive for many  companies to provide this important coverage for their employees. It is  high time we eradicate this unwarranted red tape and let businesses  invest in the needs of their employees without punishing the company  for doing just that.

That is why I introduced the Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care  Solutions Act. Hoosiers and all Americans must not be forced to choose  between caring for a loved one and working outside of the home.

Businesses deserve to be profitable but are also entitled to have the  most qualified workers to support their company's growth. A company  must be rewarded and not penalized for making critical benefits  available to their employees, which, in turn, helps the company recruit  the best and the brightest to their workforce.

The Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act lowers  costs, cuts red tape, and better serves American companies by making  profamily benefits achievable. Passing this legislation contributes to  our goal of returning affordability to the American people and the U.S.  workforce.

The American taxpayer needs our help now more than ever to get our  economy back on track, and this bill will be one small step in making  that dream a reality.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his support on H.R. 2270.