Banking Committee Advances Miller, Wade Nominations


U.S. Senator Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, delivered the following remarks at an executive session to vote on the following nominations: The Honorable Brian D. Miller, of Virginia, to be Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery, U.S. Department of the Treasury; and Mrs. Dana T. Wade, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.  Mr. Miller was advanced 14-11, and Mrs. Wade was advanced 15-10.  

The text of Chairman Crapo's remarks, as prepared, is below.  

"Mr. Brian Miller has been nominated to serve as the Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery.  Mr. Miller has over ten years of experience, having served as the Inspector General for the General Services Administration for nearly a decade and has been outspoken on the need for inspectors generals to remain independent.  The Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery will oversee the reporting and auditing requirements of the law, and it is critical that we quickly confirm the nominee so that important work can begin.    

"Mrs. Wade is well positioned to take on the task of Assistant Secretary for Housing and Federal Housing Commissioner at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.  Mrs. Wade served as Acting Federal Housing Commissioner and General Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Office of Housing, where she directly managed FHA's portfolio of single family, multifamily and healthcare insurance; Section 8 project-based rental assistance; the Office of Manufactured Housing; and over 2,400 personnel agency-wide.  

"If confirmed, these nominees will play critical roles in oversight of the CARES Act and overseeing segments of the nation's housing and mortgage markets.  Each nominee's background and experience has prepared them to meaningfully contribute to each of their respective positions and institutions."