Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I rise today to urge my colleagues to  confirm Brian Montgomery as the next Deputy Secretary of the U.S.  Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Montgomery is among  the most respected voices in the housing market, as well as one of the  most experienced. His breadth of experience includes service as the  head of the Federal Housing Administration--or FHA--during the Bush  administration, the Obama administration, and the Trump administration. 

  Mr. Montgomery guided FHA through the 2008 financial crisis and has  provided steadfast leadership at the FHA through the ongoing COVID-19  pandemic, arguably the two most turbulent times for the housing market  in a generation. 

  Prior to the COVID-19 outbreak, he oversaw the return of FHA's  insurance fund to its strongest financial position since fiscal year  2007, while continuing to provide affordable homeownership  opportunities to tens of thousands of first-time homebuyers each year.  Since the outbreak, he has worked to make sure that FHA performs its  traditional countercyclical role of maintaining liquidity and credit  access in the mortgage market where traditional sources of home  financing may have dried up. 

  For over a year now, Mr. Montgomery has also served in the capacity  of Acting Deputy Secretary at HUD, where he has managed the day-to-day  operations of the Department under Secretary Ben Carson. Mr. Montgomery  knows the Department inside and out and has been intimately involved in  carrying out HUD's mission to create strong, sustainable, inclusive  communities and quality affordable housing opportunities for millions  of Americans. 

  He has been described by the National Multifamily Housing Council as  ``a housing policy veteran with deep expertise and experience across a  wide variety of policy areas.'' The National Association of  Homebuilders has noted that ``throughout his government and private  sector career, Brian has proven himself to be both an expert in  affordable housing policy, as well as an outstanding Federal agency  administrator and communicator.'' 

  This confirmation vote comes at a critical time. In the wake of  COVID-19, we have already seen a huge number of mortgage borrowers  enter forbearance, while many landlords are struggling to make ends  meet, and countless renters are unsure where their next rent payment  will come from. Homeless shelters are at or near capacity and facing  novel issues related to social distancing, and the homeless community,  who may be particularly exposed to the risk of contracting COVID-19, is  leaning on HUD for help. 

  HUD has a central role to play in addressing these challenges and  more. The CARES Act acknowledges this important role, entrusting HUD  with over $12 billion in additional funding to provide immediate relief  and to address emerging issues. Bold leadership is especially needed  during this critical time for HUD, and Mr. Montgomery is a trusted  voice who fits the mold perfectly. 

  Fifteen years ago, this body confirmed Mr. Montgomery on a voice vote  to serve as FHA Commissioner. Two years ago, we confirmed him as FHA  Commissioner, again, on a strong bipartisan vote of 74-23. 

  I support Brian Montgomery, and I urge my colleagues to join me today  in voting ``yes'' on his nomination. 

  Thank you. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT