Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694206/military-construction-veterans-affairs-and-related-agencies


Mr. CRAPO.  The fact is that I completely agree with the objective of my  colleagues on the floor today that we need to get transparency in the  prescription drug pricing system.

Americans deserve a transparent, affordable, and accessible  prescription drug market. Far too often, the current system fails to  meet those needs. It is not only, though, because we haven't got ads on  TV saying the list price of the drug--I don't have an opposition to  just doing something like that--but it is much more complex. Vertically  integrated health plans, pharmacy benefit managers, and other  intermediaries suppress competition, pocket valuable drug discounts,  and increase prices for consumers--all unrelated to the list price of  the drug.

Last Congress, the Senate Finance Committee, which I chair, advanced  a number of our bipartisan proposals to reform our broken prescription  drug supply chain. Senator Grassley has just referenced those  proposals, and he is a strong ally and advocate of those. These  policies would ensure that patients, not middlemen, benefit from the  negotiated price of drugs--not the price you see if you just look at  the list price, the negotiated price of the drugs. With bipartisan  support and cooperation, we can pass that package by the end of this  year, but we need bipartisan support to move forward and do it.

While well-intended, the proposal before us today risks confusing  patients further by requiring disclosure of list prices in  advertisements that no consumer should pay--none. A drug's list price  includes none of the discounts, rebates, or other price concessions  found in net prices, which continue to decline even as other prices  grow.

Rather than broadcast and validate a list price, Congress should  ensure that patients can share in the savings reflected in the net  pricing points, enabling both increased transparency and reduced out- of-pocket costs at the pharmacy counter.

What I am saying is that this is complex, and we are working and have  a working solution. I stand ready to work with the administration and  my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on an effective method to  increase transparency and access to relevant information that patients  need to make important choices about their own health but not to pull a  bill out of our committee when we are already working in committee to  get the right and most effective solution put into place.