National Pow/Mia Recognition Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695075/national-powmia-recognition-day


Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, in acknowledgement of National POW/MIA  Recognition Day this September 19, 2025, I honor Idaho's and all of  America's prisoners of war, POWs, and missing in action, MIA, as I  extend my support and gratitude to their loved ones.

In February, the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency, DPAA, the Agency  primarily responsible for recovering America's servicemembers, unveiled  its 2025 National POW/MIA Recognition Day poster. Each year, the Agency  creates a poster commemorating the lives of U.S. servicemembers still  unaccounted for from past conflicts and showcasing the DPAA's  commitment to bringing them home. This year's poster features the  statement, ``Delivering on the nation's promise.''

Fittingly, this year's poster was designed by a Gold Star Daughter,  Jeanie Jacobs Huffman who, unfortunately, knows deeply and personally  the price military families pay for our freedoms. Jeanie Jacobs  Huffman's father, Navy Commander Edward J. Jacobs, Jr., remains  unaccounted for after contact was lost with the aircraft he was  piloting in the Gulf of Tonkin off the coast of North Vietnam in 1967.  At the unveiling of the poster, Jeanie shared, ``I always felt a huge  void in my life not having my father. I believe that each of our  missing is still seeking their way home and they expect that our  nation's promise will be kept.''

To help meet our Nation's promise to America's servicemembers and  support the efforts of those who work tirelessly for their return, I  continue to press for the enactment of the Bring Our Heroes Home Act.  This legislation would help eliminate obstacles preventing families and  caseworkers from accessing the records needed for recovering America's  POWs and MIA.

This POW/MIA Recognition Day, and every day, I remain deeply grateful  for the committed individuals and groups, such as the POW*MIA Awareness  Rally Corp. of Pocatello, ID, and others across our country who keep an  unwavering spotlight on the need to bring every American servicemember  home. With a heavy but hopeful heart, I continue to pray for all those  who await answers about lost servicemembers and thank America's  servicemembers, veterans, and their families for their extraordinary  commitment to our country.