Recognizing Idaho Olympians


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700315/recognizing-idaho-olympians


Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, with my colleagues Senator Jim Risch,  Representative  Mike Simpson, and Representative Russ Fulcher, I  congratulate five Idaho-connected athletes who competed in the 2026  Winter Olympics in Milano-Cortina. Qualifying for Team USA is an  accomplishment in and of itself, and we commend these five incredible  Idahoans for their hard work and commitment that resulted in them  representing our great State and country on this world stage.

Now three-time Olympian Chase Josey, of Sun Valley, competed in  snowboarding in both the Olympic Winter Games in Beijing 2022, earning  7th place in the snowboard halfpipe, and he earned 6th place in the  snowboard halfpipe in the Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang in 2018,  before his return to the 2026 Winter Olympics in Milano-Cortina, where  he earned 11th in the halfpipe. He took 5th in the halfpipe at the 2021  FIS Snowboard World Championships, and most recently 12th in this  competition in 2025. Team USA notes that Chase's father Bill taught him  to snowboard at age 5  on the slopes of Sun Valley. He has since been a strong presence in  competitive snowboarding.

Five-time Olympic medalist Hilary Knight, of Sun Valley, has become a  mainstay on the U.S. women's hockey team. She brought home one gold and  three silver medals in four Olympics prior to the 2026 competitions,  where she again helped secure Team USA's gold-medal win. Hilary Knight  served as captain of the team and is the new American point and goal- scoring leader for Olympic women's ice hockey. She earned a silver  medal in the Olympic Winter Games in Beijing in 2022, following her  earning a gold medal in the Olympic Winter Games in PyeongChang in  2018, a silver medal in the Olympic Winter Games in Sochi in 2014, and  a silver medal in the Olympic Winter Games in Vancouver in 2010. She  has had 15 years of participation with the U.S. Women's National Team,  helping to earn 10 gold and 5 silver medals in the Women's World  Championships. Given her legendary career and leadership that has  inspired so many in Idaho and across the globe, her selection to serve  as a flag bearer for the closing ceremony of the 2026 Winter Olympics  in Milano-Cortina was a well-deserved honor.

Ryder Sarchett, of Ketchum, competed in alpine skiing in his first  Olympic Games, earning 25th in the men's giant slalom at the 2026  Winter Olympics in Milano-Cortina. Ryder, who began skiing at age 2 and  ski racing at age 10, earned 10th at the World Cup giant slalom in Val  d'Isere, France, in December 2025. This followed him achieving gold in  the men's giant slalom at the 2024 FIS Alpine Junior World  Championships in Portes du Soleil, France, with Team USA noting,  ``Sarchett became the first American to win the junior world  championships giant slalom title since River Radamus claimed gold in  2019 . . .''. He has skied for the University of Colorado Boulder,  winning the men's giant slalom at the Utah Invitational and placing 8th  in slalom at the NCAA championships, helping his team win the team  title by 2 points.

The 2026 Winter Olympics were also the first Olympic Games for  Samantha ``Sammy'' Smith, who grew up splitting time between Boise and  Sun Valley. She competed in cross-country skiing, earning 19th in  sprint classic style in the 2026 Winter Olympics in Milano-Cortina.  Team USA notes that Sammy made her World Cup debut in Norway in March  2023 as the youngest woman in the field by 2 years. She then went on to  earn a silver medal in the freestyle sprint at the 2024 FIS Ski Junior  World Championships in Planica, Slovenia. Sammy earned multiple top 30  FIS World Cup finishes and the U.S. Nordic Olympic Women Gold Rush  Award for her grit and grace beyond race results. She also won the U.S.  national championship in the classic sprint in January 2025. In  addition to skiing, she is a division I soccer player for Stanford  University. Her many soccer achievements include her serving as a  captain of the U.S. team at the 2023 Pan American Games, where her team  earned bronze.

Another first-time Olympian John Steel Hagenbuch, of Ketchum,  competed in cross-country skiing for Team USA. He earned 14th in the  men's 10-kilometer interval start free and contributed to his team's  6th place finish in the 4x7.5-kilometer relay. Team USA notes, ``John  Steel Hagenbuch has established himself as one of the most decorated  collegiate cross-country skiers in recent history while simultaneously  competing at the international level.'' His many successes as a skier  for Dartmouth include his two-time NCAA championships in the 7.5- kilometer classic, earning United States Collegiate Ski Coaches  Association Men's Nordic National Skier of the Year honors, and  numerous Eastern Intercollegiate Ski Association championships. He also  earned bronze in February 2024 in the skate sprint at the U23 FIS  Cross-Country Ski World Championships in Planica, Slovenia.

The Idaho Olympians we are honoring and their teammates often  overcome significant injuries and other setbacks to continue showing up  day in and day out to prepare, improve, and prevail. They are  extraordinary examples of consistency. They make the choice over-and- over-again not to push snooze on their dreams but get up and keep  moving forward. We commend them for their hard work and thank them for  their representation of our great State and Nation in the 2026 Winter  Olympics in Milano-Cortina. Congratulations, Olympians.