Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690537/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in opposition to the  resolution. Before I get into my prepared remarks, let me just make it  clear. What we are doing here today is following a law, IEEPA, which  gave authority to the President of the United States to declare an  emergency and gave Congress the authority to reject that declaration of  the emergency by a vote in Congress.

The President has declared that emergency under the authority of that  law, and this resolution has been brought to reject the declaration of  that emergency. That is what we are debating today, and that is what  the vote in Congress is about.

I appreciate that many of us in this Chamber have heard from  constituents concerned about the economic impact of the tariffs. All of  us are watching this issue closely and working with the administration  to find ways to minimize its impact on Americans.

We should also be working with the administration to address a shared  objective: more opportunities for Americans in foreign markets and an  end to discriminatory practices in foreign markets against Americans,  against our farmers, and against our businesses.

The President's decision to pause the full reciprocal tariffs for 90  days, other than for China, was a prudent move in that respect. It  helped mitigate the impact. It discouraged retaliation but also  continued the serious negotiations by our trading partners to address  longstanding trading barriers faced by Americans in foreign markets.

I don't believe there is anybody in Congress who would deny that for  decades, nations around the globe have put unjustified tariffs on  American producers, on American products. We should not undermine these  negotiations by the President at this critical juncture. The  administration has shared that serious negotiations are proceeding with  18 countries at a minimum now and with more to follow shortly.

In the coming weeks, the U.S. Trade Representative will meet with the  Senate advisory group on negotiations and the Finance Committee to  discuss these negotiations in detail. I encourage my colleagues to  trust the President, at least until they have had the opportunity to  hear from his trade team about their efforts.

As the White House recently argued in its statement of administrative  policy, this resolution, if we passed it, would signal to U.S. trading  partners that they can continue to discriminate against U.S. exports  with impunity and would signal that the United States is not serious  about addressing structural imbalances in the global economy and the  conditions giving rise to the threat to U.S. national security and  economy.

Disapproving this emergency will undercut the serious negotiations  that are underway, which are also yielding results. For example, India  has already suspended its digital services tax on U.S. companies. The  President is a good negotiator, and he deserves more time and our  support.

Ending these negotiations at their inception benefits only one actor:  China. China will see its full reciprocal tariff limited immediately  without offering any concessions to addressing longstanding, bipartisan  grievances. Moreover, China will benefit because its trade negotiations  will continue, while ours will sputter out.

For these reasons, I encourage my colleagues to vote in opposition to  this resolution.