Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696441/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to S.J. Res. 77, which  would terminate the fentanyl national emergency declared with respect  to Canada.

I agree with my colleagues that tariffs should be more targeted to  avoid harm to Americans. I made precisely that point at a hearing in  the Finance Committee in May.

We should consider more exemptions, whether for unavailable natural  resources, capital equipment, or other key inputs.

It is equally as important that enforcement guidance provides the  clarity that U.S. companies need to comply with the tariffs and to make  critical business decisions.

Similarly, as the administration continues to negotiate with our  trading partners, I appreciate that my colleagues, as well as our  constituents, may be nervous about what comes next. However, at this  juncture, this resolution is counterproductive to helping American  families and businesses of all sizes.

What my colleagues across the aisle have not discussed is the  ubiquitous tariffs and nontariff trade barriers that our small  businesses and large businesses alike face across this globe from  countries that are not allowing fair trade to happen with the United  States, and the cost of that is being borne by the American people-- small businesses and large businesses alike.

The President's historic trade negotiations recognize that this  cannot continue, and nations across the globe need to reduce their  tariff barriers and their nontariff trade barriers to American  companies and American citizens.

The President's negotiations are bearing fruit. President Trump  already announced new trade deals with major trading partners,  including the United Kingdom, Japan, and the European Union. Other such  announcements we expect to be forthcoming.

And I urge other trading partners of the United States to reach  similar deals.

Consequently, S.J. Res. 77 is counterproductive to the progress  already made by the President and to new gains he can still achieve in  the ongoing negotiations with our trading partners. Let's truly get a  balanced, fair playing field in trade.

On April 30, the Senate rejected the joint resolution of disapproval  of IEEPA-based reciprocal tariffs for the same reasons. I recommend we  do the same thing today and reject this resolution.