Unanimous Consent Request--S. 348


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688256/unanimous-consent-request-s-348


Mr. CRAPO.  348, the STABLE Trade Policy Act.

Senator Coons is a good friend and a great ally, and, reluctantly, I  stand to oppose this motion on this particular procedure.

First, Senator Coons and I agree about much on trade policy,  including the need for the United States to have more high-standard  free-trade agreements, like the United States-Mexico-Canada trade  agreement, or USMCA. We should ensure that the commitments in those  agreements are respected.

The last administration not only refused to negotiate new trade  agreements but undermined U.S. rights under them when it waived our  intellectual property rights under the WTO TRIPS Agreement and without  informing Congress, attempting to remove the rights of American  investors under the USMCA.

Second, I also agree that we should not undertake tariff actions  lightly on our allies or free-trade agreement partners.

We should, however, take care before we say that all options are  completely off the table. In fact, all of our free-trade agreements  provide exceptions for when parties can remove economic benefits,  including on national security grounds.

I don't recall anyone suggesting that the Biden administration could  not impose sanctions on Nicaragua last year because it was a CAFTA  party. Instead, we recognized that legitimate national security  grounds, including Nicaragua's human rights abuses, warranted the  economic pressure.

Third, it was only yesterday that we confirmed Jamieson Greer as the  U.S. Trade Representative to serve as the principal adviser on trade  issues. He told the Finance Committee that he wants to work closely  with Congress.

There are a lot of good things we can do together. For instance, we  can negotiate new agreements and reinvigorate congressional executive  partnerships on trade.

The STABLE Trade Policy Act is, accordingly, too blunt of an  instrument when nuance is called for, including the option of tariffs  in some instances.