Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. LaLOTA. Mr. Chairman, Long Islanders face some of the highest tax  burdens anywhere in the Nation.

At the same time, America, with our $38 trillion in debt, needs to  start to freeze and cut spending wherever possible. When we deal with  these financial issues, lawmakers in this body would be wise to protect  important government services.

Thankfully, the fiscal year 2026 Financial Services and General  Government bill, which is on the floor today, cuts spending by $140  million and sends a clear message that Washington is doing its part to  ease, not add to, our tax and deficit burden, all while protecting  important government services.

That is why I rise today in strong support of this bill.

As vice chair of FSGG, and under the strong leadership of Chairman  Cole and Chairman Joyce, our subcommittee worked to deliver a  disciplined funding package that addresses the real pressures facing  families and businesses back home.

This legislation provides $26.5 billion in discretionary funding to  support economic growth, protect individual liberties, and ensure the  institutions upon which Americans rely work more effectively for them.

This bill strengthens our financial system and economic security. It  responsibly funds the Department of the Treasury, including critical  investments in cybersecurity, financial crimes enforcement, and  oversight of our adversaries' investments.

It preserves community development funding to help small businesses  and manufacturers on Long Island grow, create jobs, and strengthen  supply chains without raising taxes.

This legislation also protects taxpayers by modernizing, not  weaponizing, the IRS. It cuts excessive enforcement funding by more  than $1 billion and prohibits the IRS from targeting Americans for  exercising their First Amendment rights.

The bill also strengthens our defenses against foreign criminal  networks. In addition to nearly $300 million for the High Intensity  Drug Trafficking Areas program, the bill strengthens the Treasury's  counterterrorism and financial intelligence efforts, cutting off  funding streams used by cartels, traffickers, and foreign bad actors.

Mr. LaLOTA. Mr. Chairman, the FY26 FSGG bill reflects the values  Americans sent us here to uphold. I urge support of the bill, and I  thank the chairman for his leadership.