Plain Language in Contracting Act


Mr. LaLOTA. Mr. Speaker, America's small businesses shouldn't have to  hire a lawyer to apply for and win a simple government contract. Yet  that is exactly what Washington's bureaucratic process demands today.

That is why I am honored to champion the Plain Language in  Contracting Act, which will reduce the burden on small businesses when  trying to secure government contracts.

My legislation ensures Federal agencies use clear, straightforward  language in solicitations, thereby removing barriers, increasing  transparency, and giving small businesses a fair shot.

Time and again, small business owners tell us the government  contracting process is so complex, they ultimately walk away. Bidding  on a contract is hard enough, but when the language is challenging and  understanding it requires an advanced degree, it is easy to see why.

A study conducted by the Naval Postgraduate School, which analyzed 1  million DOD contracts, found less than 3  percent were in plain English. Most were rated difficult or very  difficult to read. There is no other way to describe it. It is  unacceptable.

Furthermore, of the 33 million small businesses operating in America,  74,000, only 0.22 percent, successfully secure Federal contracts. Mr.  Speaker, 0.22 percent is just 1 in every 446 contracts. That is all.

When small businesses are shut out from opportunities because they  are overwhelmed by the language, we don't just lose a bidder. We lose  innovation. We lose local job creation. Oftentimes, we lose a better  price.

The government should facilitate small businesses and not be a  barrier. Federal agencies should speak in terms that are clear,  consistent, and accessible to the American people.

The Plain Language in Contracting Act does just that. This bill  creates a level playing field and ensures every small business can  compete for a government contract without needing a lawyer.

I thank Chairman Williams and his staff, my colleagues from both  sides of the aisle, and the entire Small Business Committee for  supporting this commonsense solution.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support this bill.

McGARVEY.