Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701213/muhammad-ali-american-boxing-revival-act-of-2026


Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bipartisan  legislation, H.R. 4624, the Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act,  which I proudly authored and introduced with my colleague from Kansas  (Ms. Davids), a former professional mixed martial artist herself and a  leader in her Caucus.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the House Committee on Education  and Workforce, Tim Walberg; the ranking member,  Bobby Scott; and the  distinguished members of the committee for considering and favorably  reporting my legislation with an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote.

Today, our House of Representatives has an opportunity to make  history by passing the first Federal boxing legislation in over a  quarter century.

Mr. Speaker, professional boxing in America has an incredibly rich  and storied history. It is a sport that demands courage, perseverance,  and determination from its champions, and its heroes have inspired  greatness, ignited dreams, and forged generations of memories and  tradition.

Mr. Speaker, 39 years before Jackie Robinson bravely broke barriers  in Major League Baseball, Jack Johnson, the Galveston Giant, reigned as  the first Black heavyweight champion of the world, from 1908 to 1915.  Decades before the New York Knicks were formed, thousands of spectators  crammed into Madison Square Garden to see Jack Dempsey fight.

Many of you may recall storied bouts during boxing's golden era, like  Leon Spinks versus Muhammad Ali in 1978, Marvin Hagler versus Thomas  Hearns in 1985, and Mike Tyson versus Evander Holyfield in 1997.

Unfortunately, American boxing has since faced a steady decline. It  has been 38 years since an American won a heavyweight gold medal at the  Olympics, and the majority of boxing's premier fights are now overseas,  many time zones away.

In recent years, ``HBO World Championship Boxing'' and ``Showtime  Championship Boxing,'' long home to the greatest fights, ceased  operations.

Last year, ESPN's contract with a leading boxing promotion ended  without renewal, leaving professional boxing without an American  distributor.

At the heart of boxing's downturn is a structural flaw that our  predecessors in Congress identified over 25 years ago but declined to  address. We have the opportunity to fix this today and revive this  great American sport.

For over a century, individual States enacted legislation to regulate  professional boxing, but the patchwork of regulations without uniform  minimum standards led to the exploitation of boxers and rampant  corruption.

Since the 1950s, Congress has considered proposed legislation to  address these problems. After multiple attempts in the 1990s, Congress  finally acted, passing the Professional Boxing Safety Act of 1996 and  the Muhammad Ali Boxing Reform Act in 2000.

As a result, boxing is the only professional sport regulated by  Congress.

The Professional Boxing Safety Act of 1996 established minimum safety  standards for professional boxers. The Muhammad Ali Boxing Reform Act,  more commonly known as the Ali Act, attempted to reform unfair and  anticompetitive practices in the professional boxing industry. Both  were enacted by voice vote with unanimous support from the House and  Senate.

Mr. Speaker, today, we have the opportunity to follow in our  predecessor's footsteps and pass the Muhammad Ali American Boxing  Revival Act.

My legislation amends the Professional Boxing Safety Act of 1996 and  preserves in its entirety the original Ali Act.

First, my bill clarifies ambiguities in current law that have stifled  innovation and investment in the sport. This  legislation allows for the creation of Unified Boxing Organizations,  otherwise known as UBOs, that will provide professional boxers with  more opportunities, better pay, and greater protections.

The UBO system will not replace the current structure of professional  boxing. Instead, UBOs will operate as a separate, parallel system that  will give boxers the freedom to choose which system works best for  them.

The bill's strict antidoping and antigambling protocols will  safeguard the integrity of the sport and restrict UBOs from charging  boxers fees for placement in rankings or participation in championship  matches.

To improve the safety and well-being of professional boxers, my  legislation establishes a national minimum payment per round of $200  and strengthens existing health and safety protections, including  establishing for the very first time a national minimum of $50,000 in  health coverage for injuries sustained during a bout.

My legislation also seeks to alleviate confusion fans often face  while following the sport by specifying that sanctioning organizations  and UBOs shall only award one championship title for each weight class.

Mr. Speaker, the Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act strengthens  safety for boxers, improves the quality of life for boxers, and  establishes a framework for innovation within the sport to flourish.

Passage of my legislation will return boxing events to our country,  and bringing jobs, investment, and economic activity back to American  communities.

The Muhammad Ali American Boxing Revival Act is endorsed by Lonnie  Ali, the wife of Muhammad Ali; the Association of Boxing Commissions;  and former heavyweight champion of the world Mike Tyson.

Additionally, America's largest arena operators support my  legislation, including Madison Square Garden Entertainment Corporation,  MGM Resorts International, and State Farm Arena in my hometown of  Atlanta. Representing American workers, the International Brotherhood  of Teamsters also supports this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation has accomplished something few other  issues before this Congress have done. The Muhammad Ali American Boxing  Revival Act fostered collaboration between Republicans and Democrats  who worked together in good faith to revive one of America's greatest  sports, in the name of one of America's greatest athletes.