Providing for Consideration of H.R. Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700520/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 1095 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 1095

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7744) making       appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for       the fiscal year ending September 30, 2026, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All       points of order against provisions in the bill are waived.       The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the       bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from New Mexico (Ms. Leger  Fernandez), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. Speaker, last night the Committee on Rules met and granted a rule  providing for consideration of one measure. The rule provides for  consideration of H.R. 7744 under a closed rule. The rule provides 1  hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and  ranking minority member on the Committee on Appropriations or their  respective designees. Additionally, the rule provides for one motion to  recommit.

Mr. Speaker, nearly 3 weeks ago, on February 13, my Democrat  colleagues irresponsibly and vindictively shut down the Department of  Homeland Security, crippling the capabilities of the very Department  charged with protecting the American people.

Leading up to that moment, I brought forth a rule that allowed the  House to concur in the Senate amendments to H.R. 7148, the Consolidated  Appropriations Act of 2026, legislation that funded the remainder of  the Federal Government through the end of the fiscal year with the  exception of the Department of Homeland Security.

Despite previously agreeing to a bipartisan and bicameral approach to  fund the Department of Homeland Security through the end of the fiscal  year, including provisions for both funding and enhanced oversight,  Democrats reversed course at the last minute and have since held this  critical funding hostage, directly putting the safety and security of  the American people at risk.

Mr. Speaker, I return today to give my Democrat colleagues the  opportunity to reverse course on this dangerous lapse in leadership and  move legislation forward that provides full funding for the personnel,  training, and technology necessary to protect our homeland and keep our  communities safe, secure, and resilient.

The Department of Homeland Security oversees agencies responsible for  aviation security, border protection, cyber defense, disaster response,  maritime security, and counterterrorism missions that directly impact  the safety of millions of Americans every single day.

Simply put, a ``yes'' vote on today's rule is a vote to consider  legislation that will fully fund the Department of Homeland Security,  ensuring that the agencies tasked with keeping the American people  safe, from counterterrorism to cybersecurity, to disaster response, are  not weakened at a moment when threats are rapidly increasing.

A ``yes'' vote on today's rule is a vote to stand with the men and  women on the frontlines of our national security, from coastguardsmen  to GSA officers, to cyber defenders, law enforcement personnel, and  emergency responders who are now working every day without pay to keep  our country safe.

A ``yes'' vote on today's rule is a vote to consider legislation to  end this Democrat shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security and  restore the resources necessary to defend the American people.

Mr. Speaker, the need to fully fund the Department of Homeland  Security becomes even clearer when we consider the serious global  threats facing our country today. For nearly 50 years, the Islamic  Republic of Iran, the number one state sponsor of terrorism, has called  our great country the ``Great Satan'' and indoctrinated generations of  its people with the chants of ``Death to America,'' making clear its  commitment to our destruction.

Despite repeated attempts at diplomacy, the regime has relentlessly  pursued a nuclear weapon, developed its ballistic missile program, and  funded proxy terrorist organizations across the world, all while its  own people suffer under corruption, repression, and economic collapse.

This past Saturday, President Donald J. Trump kept his promise,  decisively authorizing Operation Epic Fury, a large-scale kinetic  military operation targeting key regime military infrastructure and  leadership responsible for incessant aggression and attacks against the  United States and our allies.

This moment did not occur in isolation. It was the result of decades  of sustained hostility by the Iranian regime toward the United States,  just as the maniacal Iranian regime was reaching the nuclear weapon  threshold.

To the American people, the timeline is clear.

In November 1979, Iranian students, backed by the regime, stormed the  U.S. Embassy in Tehran and held hostage 66 brave Americans for 444 days  as they beat them and subjected them to mock executions and other forms  of torture.

In October 1993, Hezbollah, an Iranian proxy, killed 241 American  military servicemembers, including 220 marines and 21 other service  personnel in a truck bombing at a Marine compound in Beirut.

In June 1996, Iran-backed Hezbollah terrorists killed 19 U.S. airmen  and wounded nearly 500 others in a truck bombing at a U.S. Air Force  housing complex in Saudi Arabia.

Between 2003 and 2011, Iranian proxies killed at least 603 American  troops in Iraq, roughly one out of every six American combat deaths in  that war.

In January 2016, Iranian forces seized two U.S. Navy boats and  detained 10 U.S. sailors who were held at gunpoint, forced to kneel  with their hands behind their heads, and filmed for propaganda being  released 15 hours later.

More recently, on October 7, 2023, Iran-backed Hamas terrorists  murdered 46 Americans and kidnapped 12 Americans in addition.

Between October 2023 and November 2024, Iran and its proxies carried  out more than 180 attacks on U.S. forces in the region, killing  American servicemembers and wounding American service personnel.

In July 2024, an Iranian national linked to Iran's Islamic  Revolutionary Guard Corps attempted to assassinate then-candidate for  President, Donald J. Trump, forcing his Presidential campaign, which  I remember being a part of it, to charter decoy planes to avoid the  threat.

In recent weeks, Iranian representatives continued to lie and  negotiate in bad faith, stalling peace talks as they prepared offensive  military threats against American forces.

This pattern of aggression makes crystal clear that these are not  isolated incidents. They instead represent a sustained and deliberate  campaign by the Iranian regime to target the United States and  undermine our national security.

This is precisely why decisive action by our Commander in Chief,  President Donald J. Trump, was necessary. By destroying Iran's military  capabilities, its missile capabilities, dismantling its naval strength,  and ensuring that this regime can never obtain a nuclear weapon,  President Trump and his administration have acted to protect the  American people and defend our national interests. This level of action  is only possible because of the strength of the United States military.

During his first term, President Donald J. Trump rebuilt our military  to a level many thought would never be possible. Through historic  investments, a renewed focus on modernization, and the restoration of  military readiness, he ensured that today we possess the strongest and  most capable military humanity has ever seen. It is that peace through  strength, rebuilt and restored, that made decisive operations like  Operation Epic Fury possible, demonstrating to our adversaries that the  United States has both the capability and the resolve to act swiftly,  effectively, and without hesitation to protect the citizens of our  country.

Mr. Speaker, during this operation, six Americans bravely sacrificed  their lives to keep our homeland safe. May we forever remember and  honor their legacy of selfless service to these United States of  America.

The threats facing our country today do not stop at distant  battlefields. They can reach our networks, our borders, and our  communities here at home.

While Iran's aggression is often discussed in terms of conflict in  the Middle East, we must not forget that the regime and its proxies  also pose a direct threat to the American homeland. Our Homeland  Security and Intelligence agencies have warned that Iran and its  affiliates maintain the capability to conduct cyberattacks against our  utility services, direct espionage campaigns within our borders, and  potentially inspire or direct violence within the United States,  targeting critical infrastructure, financial systems, and other central  networks on which millions of Americans rely.

That is why President Trump's Department of Homeland Security plays  such a vital role in coordinating intelligence, strengthening cyber  defenses, securing transportation systems, and protecting the American  homeland from emerging threats.

Mr. Speaker, border security is homeland security. At a time when  hostile regimes and terrorist networks continue to threaten the United  States, we cannot ignore the risks posed by an unsecure border and  inadequate vetting of individuals entering our country. Ensuring that  terrorists, traffickers, and foreign operatives cannot exploit weakness  in our immigration system is a fundamental responsibility of the  Department of Homeland Security.

While security at our southern border has drastically improved and  more than 600,000 criminal aliens have been deported under President  Trump's administration, millions of unvetted, illegal immigrants who  entered our country during 4 years of the porous open border under the  Biden administration still remain in the United States today.

Among these illegal immigrants are members of violent transnational  gangs, some of which have ties to Iranian-backed terror networks who  threaten the safety of American communities. At a time of heightened  global tensions and increasing threats, the presence of even one  dangerous individual within our borders poses a serious risk to  America.

If we look at results here at home today, we have seen real progress  in safety and security under President Trump, proof that his approach  works and can be trusted abroad.

Under President Trump's leadership, fentanyl deaths fell by 34  percent in 2025, as trafficking across our southern border was cut in  half. Violent crime has declined nationwide, with homicides  experiencing one of the largest single-year drops on record. In cities  where enhanced enforcement has taken place, the results have been even  more dramatic. Murders here in Washington, D.C., have dropped 60  percent. Chicago saw its lowest number of murders since 1965. Memphis  saw 200 fewer murders and a 40 percent decline in shootings. New  Orleans' homicide rate reached its lowest level in 50 years.

Mr. Speaker, these outcomes exemplify what strong leadership and  commitment to law and order can achieve, but maintaining that progress  requires a fully functional Homeland Security apparatus.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to make one thing clear for the record and  for everyone who is watching today: Despite what some of my Democrat  colleagues may be telling their constituents, as they fear primary  challenges from the left, this debate is not about funding ICE or CBP.  Those agencies were already fully funded through H.R. 1, the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act, which was enacted last year.

This debate is about the rest of the Department of Homeland Security,  the agencies responsible for counterterrorism, cybersecurity, disaster  response, aviation security, maritime security, and other critical  missions that protect the American homeland.

By refusing to fund the remainder of the Department of Homeland  Security, my Democratic colleagues have left critical Homeland Security  missions vulnerable at a time when threats against our country are  increasing. The consequences of that decision are already being felt.

Due to the Democrats' Homeland Security shutdown, our country's cyber  defenses remain weakened, leaving critical infrastructure like  hospitals, water systems, and energy grids more vulnerable to attacks  from adversaries like Iran.

Due to the Democrats' Homeland Security shutdown, our Coast Guard  faces disruptions to essential missions, like search and rescue, port  security, and drug interdiction, while servicemembers in harm's way are  left without the full support and pay that they deserve.

Due to Democrats' Homeland Security shutdown, TSA officers who  service airports like Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport,  as well as other airports across our country, are forced to work  without pay, hurting morale, straining staffing, and increasing the  risk of security gaps, delays, and disruptions in our airports.

Due to the Democrats' Homeland Security shutdown, FEMA is stretched  to its limits, jeopardizing disaster response, recovery efforts, and  preparedness as severe weather threatens communities across the  country.

Passage of the resolution today allows the House of Representatives  to consider, debate, and pass legislation that ends this Democrat  shutdown and fully funds the Department of Homeland Security, ensuring  that agencies charged with protecting the American people are equipped  with the resources necessary to carry out their critical missions  without disruption.

Mr. Speaker, protecting the American people should never be a  partisan issue. Regardless of party, every Member of Congress has a  responsibility to ensure the agencies tasked with defending our  homeland have the resources they need to do their jobs.

It should really be that simple.

I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on House Resolution 1095  because it allows this House of Representatives to carry out its most  fundamental duties: to govern, to safeguard the American people, and to  confront the serious threats facing our country today with strength,  clarity, and resolve.

A ``yes'' vote today allows us to end the Democrats' Homeland  Security shutdown and protects our homeland.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, six Americans are dead, and bombs are falling on our  consulates and bases and allies because Trump has started what he has  now said could be a, in his words, forever war. This is the same  President who said: ``I am not going to start wars. I am going to end  them.''

This is a President who has said America First means no more wars.  This is a President who has betrayed--he has betrayed those people who  voted for him expecting him to keep us out of wars.

He started this war as a matter of choice because he wanted to. We  have heard over and over again that there was no imminent threat, which  is the legal criteria. There was no congressional authorization.

Trump betrayed his own commitments, his own voters. Trump betrayed  them and betrayed those Republicans who thought he was going to keep us  out of war, so you would think that Republicans who control this House  would bring us back into a session so we could address this war, so we  could discuss: Is it legitimate? What can we do? How do we exercise our  Article I power?

Why don't you all want to exercise the power that was given to you by  your voters? That is not what we are doing today. Instead, we are here  on a rule that has one bill, and that bill is so important. That is the  only thing we are going to cover. But guess what. We already did it.

This is a rerun of a bad movie. It is a rerun because there is  nothing in this bill that is not already in the bill that, as the  gentleman pointed out, was already passed.

The only thing that has changed from when we last passed this very  same bill a few weeks ago was that ICE and CBP have killed, arrested,  detained, and terrorized more American citizens.

When we last passed this bill, Alex Pretti was alive. Alex Pretti had  not been killed. Alex Pretti's Second Amendment rights were still being  honored. That is what has changed. What has changed is more people have  died in ICE custody.

What has changed is it has gotten only worse. We have seen ICE  officials have to walk back their lies about their encounters with  citizens who they have shot and beat up and arrested. That is the only  thing we have seen since this bill was last passed.

The reality is that the only way to get DHS funded all together in a  single bill is for the White House, Senate, and House to come to an  agreement. They are in negotiations to do that, but this is the kind of  thing where even though negotiations are going on, the House just wants  to do the same thing over and over again.

Do you know what, do you remember that quote of when you do the same  thing over and over again with the same results, it is actually a  little bit of madness?

I put up this letter because, while House Republicans kind of don't  understand where Americans are, this 7-year-old named Connor does.  Connor sent me this letter where he says: ICE, no money. He put a whole  bunch of zeros after it. He doesn't realize they get a lot more than  the $1 billion that he set out here. As my colleagues noted, they are  already fully funded. They have all that money from H.R. 1.

What Democrats have suggested is, since they already acknowledge--he  said it on the floor--that they are fully funded, why don't we just  pass a bill that funds FEMA, that funds Coast Guard, that funds these  critical agencies over which there is no debate, no controversy, and no  need for negotiations?

They rejected that amendment last night because if they really cared  about funding these critical agencies, they would say let's fund them,  and let's take up the issues of how we make sure that ICE and CBP  protect Americans.

Not only is Connor worried, but a parent told me when I was back home  that her child asked her two questions as they drove home from school  one day. One question was: Mom, are elves real? The second question  was: Mom, what do I do if ICE comes for me? What do I do if ICE comes  for you?

This is a little Latina student, a citizen, somebody whose family has  been in this country for generations, but they are terrified because if  you look Latino, you are at risk.

They are unwilling to put any protections in to protect our families.  They are unwilling to put any protections in to say: Don't go into our  schools. Don't go into our hospitals. Don't go into our churches.  Preserve the places where people should be able to go to feel safe.

For example, in Clovis, New Mexico, ICE broke a car window at a  health clinic, a health clinic, and dragged the father away. The mother  had to run into the health clinic to make sure that there were no glass  shards on the baby's skin because that window had been shattered.

This is the kind of activity that they are condoning. That baby was  lucky because we know that there are babies like 2-month-old Juan  Nicholas in Texas who was sick in detention with bronchitis and almost  near death and who was deported across the border without any money,  without any people who he would know.

Thank heavens the goodness of the American people helped that baby  out.

I could tell story after story that should make anybody who has a  heart, conscience, or moral values based on any of our faith traditions  cry and say: This is not an America we believe in.

At least 3,800 children under age 18, including 20 infants, were held  in detention under the Trump administration in 2025 alone.

The cruelty continues far beyond those thousands of kids, and it is  not just that they killed--they killed--citizen Alex Pretti and citizen  Renee Good. This is a pattern and practice of ICE hurting our  communities and violating the Constitution. Americans who believe in  law and order, respect for constitutional rights, and who don't want  government overreach should be and are, indeed, outraged.

However, today, Republicans are, once again, demanding more money for  the Department of Homeland Security's ICE and CBP which they  acknowledge has already been fully funded. In fact, we know that $150  billion of  the money that we already sent to DHS remains available to them.  However, now, as we heard, they are trying to justify funding DHS by  pointing to a war that this President started without a clear strategy  and without the support of the American people.

Trump's chaos is everywhere. Trump's chaos comes with a price. It is  Americans who pay that price. There is chaos abroad, chaos Congress did  not authorize, and chaos at home.

Let's be clear about what is happening. While families are worried  about rising costs and while servicemembers' lives are at risk,  Republicans want to write another blank check to an agency that is  already operating with historic, unprecedented funding.

How much is this chaos costing us?

That is the question we should be asking. We know just one piece of  this war: The three F-15 aircraft shot down cost $300 million.

Mr. Speaker, do you know what that $300 million could do?

It could fund 23 years of the Gabriella Miller Kids First Pediatric  Research Program, 3 years of childhood cancer and birth defects for  just those three F-15s that they put at risk. It would fund the 988  Suicide & Crisis Lifeline for 1 year to connect Americans with  lifesaving services and a compassionate counselor. Three of those  planes would pay for another year of the Community Development  Financial Institutions Fund, a fund that Trump wanted to zero out. He  wanted to zero out this fund.

Think about it, Mr. Speaker.

What do those CDFIs mean?

They are your credit unions, the places where you get your loans for  your cars and for your appliances or to help with your home. That is  what he is willing to do because everything comes at a cost, and they  are willing to pay money for this war of choice. That money could be  better spent at home bringing down the cost of living for Americans.

We know that 60 percent of Americans support redirecting ICE funding  to Medicaid because people want healthcare and stability, not raids,  abuse, and chaos.

Republicans keep burning money. They keep burning money. They have  that $4 trillion debt from their big, beautiful bill. We know the last  time a Republican took us into war in the Middle East it cost trillions  in our deficit. They are doing it again.

There they go. They are at it again.

What Democrats are asking for before we send more ICE funding is what  all law enforcement uses: mandatory body cameras and judicial warrants  before you break down somebody's door.

Every law enforcement in America does that.

Why can't they?

Democrats ask for no masks.

What law enforcement officers go around in masks except for theirs?

Democrats want no targeting of schools, hospitals, houses of worship,  or polling places.

These are sensible, community-driven policies.

We are also asking that ICE follow the same constitutional principles  that every other law enforcement agency follows.

Mr. Speaker, you can't just beat up, shoot, and kill people. It is  not just Democrats saying this. Catholic bishops from border States and  beyond are pleading with Congress to restore protections at places of  worship, schools, and healthcare facilities so families can seek care,  learn, and pray without fear.

If Republicans truly cared about security, then they would support  these kinds of reforms.

Mr. Speaker, why don't you want to let people pray without fear, I  ask?

Trump wanted the Department of War so he could wage war. Now he wants  a reckless ICE to have dangerous amounts of money. However, Americans  don't have to choose between national security and safety and  constitutional protections. We can have all three. It just takes  courage. It takes courage over chaos, not blank checks and not endless  wars.

It is time to restore accountability before we write another blank  check with a lot more zeros than poor Connor can even imagine.

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, I was half hoping the gentlewoman from New  Mexico was going to rise to thank us for giving her an opportunity to  rectify the wrong she inflicted upon the Department of Homeland  Security 3 weeks ago when they neglected to fund it, but based on her  comments, it doesn't seem to be the case.

Mr. Speaker, just to respond briefly, first and foremost, if the  gentleman had listened to my opening remarks, as he suggested he did,  he would know that we noted that we, in fact, funded CBP and ICE last  year.

This is about funding the Coast Guard and TSA. This is what today's  vote is about.

That is why we hear the consternation from the other side. It is  because they take bad vote after bad vote after bad vote. We are giving  them a chance to rectify that today.

Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, I think it is disappointing that the gentleman  from Maryland refers to funding our Border Patrol and funding those who  keep our borders safe as poison pills. That is his prerogative, not  mine.

Mrs. BIGGS of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Georgia for recognizing me.

Mr. Speaker, America has dealt a clear and decisive blow to the  Iranian terrorist regime. In times like this, we have to stay vigilant  here at home. Rogue terrorists look for ways to strike back and create  chaos. In some cases, they already have.

Right now, the Department of Homeland Security is shut down. Think  about that. At a time when the threat of terrorism is real and rising,  those on the other side of the aisle have left the agency responsible  for protecting our homeland just hanging out to dry for nearly a month.

Americans should not be alarmed, but they should take note of who  prioritizes Americans' safety. DHS secures our border. DHS works to  stop terrorist threats. DHS supports the law enforcement officers who  keep our communities safe.

Letting it stay shut down is reckless. Stop the partisan games and  protect Americans.

Mr. Speaker, this issue is personal for me. I am a lieutenant colonel  in the Air National Guard. I still currently serve. Should I be called  up, my go-bag is packed and ready.

Serving as a medical crew director in the back of an aircraft in  hostile environments, I have looked wounded servicemembers in their  eyes as I cared for them. As a psychiatric mental health nurse  practitioner, I have seen these warriors return home with tremendous  weight and trauma on their minds and in their hearts and the weight of  the world on their shoulders.

When we talk about supporting and praying for our troops, this isn't  theoretical for me. I have lived it. Quite honestly, it is why I am  here in Congress. Our men and women in uniform deserve a Congress that  has their backs.

Mr. Speaker, when some of those on the other side second-guess and  even go as far as telling our military to disregard their orders, that  is not leadership.

Under President Trump's leadership, America dealt a decisive blow.  For nearly 50 years, the Iranian regime fueled terrorism. It backed  proxy militias and threatened Americans and our allies. Their chants of  ``death to America'' have never been symbolic. They have been backed by  violence and a relentless pursuit of nuclear weapons.

President Trump made it clear that Iran would never obtain a nuclear  weapon. He gave their leaders a chance to negotiate. They chose  deception. They chose delay.

When diplomacy failed, the President acted to protect the American  people. That sends a message far beyond Tehran. Russia is watching.  China is watching. Every adversary testing Americans' resolve is  watching.

There is peace through strength. It protects American lives, and it  keeps our country safe.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, the rule I have presented today allows the  House of Representatives to carry out its responsibilities and to  govern in an orderly and responsible manner for the American people.

As a reminder, a ``yes'' vote on this rule enables us to consider  legislation that will fully end the Democratic shutdown of the  Department of Homeland Security and allows us in this body to restore  funding for the agencies responsible for protecting the American  people.

A ``yes'' vote on this rule ensures that the men and women serving on  the front lines of our homeland security, from coastguardsmen and TSA  officers to cyber defenders, law enforcement personnel, and emergency  responders, have the resources and support that they need to carry out  their critical missions.

A ``yes'' vote on this rule strengthens the security of the American  homeland by restoring funding for the agencies responsible for  counterterrorism, cybersecurity, aviation security, disaster response,  and maritime security, at a time when threats to our country are  increasing.

As I made clear earlier, a ``yes'' vote on this rule ensures that the  rest of the Department of Homeland Security can continue its vital  work, even as ICE and CBP have already been funded through H.R. 1, the  One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

Finally, a ``yes'' vote on this rule allows the House to fulfill its  most basic responsibility to govern and to ensure the safety of the  American people is never used as a political bargaining chip.

Mr. Speaker, the consequences of leaving the Department of Homeland  Security unfunded are too serious to ignore. This rule allows the House  to act to restore full funding and to ensure that the agencies tasked  with protecting the American people can carry out their missions  without further disruption.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Ms. Leger Fernandez is as  follows:

An Amendment To H. Res. 1095 Offered By Ms. Leger Fernandez of New                                   Mexico

Strike all after the resolving clause and insert the       following:

That immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 7744) making appropriations for the Department of       Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending September 30,       2026, and for other purposes. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. An amendment in the       nature of a substitute consisting of the text of H.R. 7481,       as introduced, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX and clause 8 of rule XX       shall not apply to the consideration of H.R. 7744.

Sec. 3. The Clerk shall transmit to the Senate a message       that the House has passed H.R. 7744 no later than three       calendar days after passage.