Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699936/providing-for-consideration-of-s-veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act


Mr. JACK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my support for this rule  and to commend my colleague, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy). There  is no greater advocate for law and order and election integrity than  Mr. Roy, and the incredible people of Texas are well-served by his  leadership and stewardship of our Constitution.

Mr. Speaker, the rule before us enables us to debate and vote on one  of the most consequential pieces of legislation concerning election  integrity in our country's history. S. 1383, the SAVE America Act, will  require voters to present photo identification to vote in Federal  elections and to provide proof of U.S. citizenship when registering to  vote.

Public opinion overwhelmingly supports this legislation, and it is  our duty to adhere to the will of the people by swiftly passing this  bill and sending the SAVE America Act to President Trump's desk for  signature.

Mr. Speaker, you know me to be a data-oriented individual, so let us  review the numbers before us as we debate this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, 83 percent of Americans favor requiring a government- issued photo ID in order to cast a ballot. By party, 95 percent of  Republicans favor requiring photo ID to vote, and 71 percent of  Democrats, the party across the aisle, favor requiring photo ID to  vote. Hardly anyone, except, apparently, my colleague, the gentleman  from Massachusetts, opposes photo ID requirements before the ballot  box.

Another national survey confirms the very same truth that 84 percent  of Americans want mandatory voter identification in Federal elections.  This includes 98 percent of Republicans who want voter ID requirements  along with 67 percent of Democrats. Most importantly, 83 percent of  Americans want proof of citizenship when registering to vote for the  first time in our country.

Mr. Speaker, the Framers of our Constitution intended for this House  of Representatives to be the most accountable to the will of the  people, and the will of the people is clear. We must pass this bill  today and enact the SAVE America Act.