Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688294/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-consumer-gas-fired-instantaneous-water-heaters


Mr. JACK. Madam Speaker, I commend the gentleman from Alabama (Mr.  Palmer) for his leadership on this resolution, and I rise today in  strong support of H.J. Res. 20.

Madam Speaker, H.J. Res. 20 is a resolution authorized by the  Congressional Review Act that will enable our Congress to repeal a job- killing regulation that would ban and eliminate noncondensing tankless  water heaters, an American product made by blue-collar American workers  in the heart of my congressional district in Georgia.

This regulation was imposed on December 26, 2024, in the midnight  hour of the Biden administration and the day after Christmas, putting  in peril the livelihoods of hundreds of my constituents during the  holiday season.

Madam Speaker, I should also note that the timing of this regulation  was 7 weeks after Americans overwhelmingly rejected the Biden-Harris  regulatory regime.

To my colleagues who support the free market, this job-killing  regulation eliminates consumer choice by effectively enabling nameless  and faceless bureaucrats to choose which companies may operate and  which companies may not operate in the marketplace for household  appliances.

Ultimately, under this regulation, the American consumer would  suffer, and hundreds of hardworking Georgians in my congressional  district would be without a job. That is why I urge my colleagues to  join me in support of this critical legislation.

To put everything that we have heard today into perspective,  noncondensing tankless water heaters account for 40 percent of our  country's tankless water heater market. A majority of those water  heaters are manufactured in my congressional district, in the heart of  Georgia, by an incredible company called Rinnai America Corporation.

These appliances are the most advanced and efficient noncondensing  tankless water heaters on the market. Perhaps most importantly, which I  would encourage the other side to research, Rinnai America is the only  company that builds noncondensing tankless water heaters on American  soil.

Rinnai America is headquartered in my hometown of Peachtree City,  Georgia, and it opened a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility 3  years ago in Griffin, Georgia, two cities I proudly represent in this  Congress.

Over 500 of my constituents are working to manufacture and market  these water heaters the Biden administration attempted to outlaw. The  job-killing regulation we seek to repeal today is another painful  example of the radical left's never-ending war on hydrocarbons and  American energy production.

The sinister purpose of this regulation was to try to single out and  eliminate an American manufacturer of water heaters to benefit their  competitors.

Madam Speaker, our colleagues on the other side of the aisle have  spent an enormous amount of time in the past few weeks arguing that my  Democratic colleagues are the party of blue-collar American workers. In  the spirit of bipartisanship, I encourage my Democratic colleagues to  join me in support of this resolution to protect and champion hundreds  of blue-collar American jobs in the heart of our country.

To my Republican colleagues, let's join together as a team and end  this war on American energy production now.

As the distinguished gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Palmer) noted,  President Trump's White House has explicitly endorsed this resolution.  I urge all of my Republican colleagues to join me and vote for this  critical legislation to empower consumer choice, champion American  manufacturing, and save blue-collar jobs in the heart of our country.