Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Oklahoma (Mr. Cole),  the chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, for not only yielding  but bringing this important bill to the floor.

Our appropriators worked tirelessly to negotiate a multi-bill package  that  is part of this bill to reopen the government. We never should have  been here, Mr. Speaker. Over a month ago, we tried, as Republicans, to  prevent a government shutdown. We had a vote here on the House floor.  Mr. Speaker, 99 percent of Republicans voted to keep the government  open, and 99 percent of Democrats voted to shut it down.

Then that bill went over to the Senate. We watched for 42 days, where  time and time again Democrats, just to appease their most radical base,  continued to vote in unison to shut the government down.

Mr. Speaker, during that shutdown, we saw millions of families  experience pain. They experienced pain and suffering that Democrats  themselves acknowledged they imposed on the American people. They said  over and over again--and we have quote after quote from Democrats  during this shutdown--that they needed to oppose the suffering to get  leverage. They wanted to use the American people as pawns to get  leverage. Mr. Speaker, for what?

They ultimately filed an alternative bill. It was a $1.5 trillion mad  spending spree that included things like $200 billion of taxpayer  funding for illegals to get taxpayer benefits, while they gutted the  $50 billion rural healthcare fund that we put in place in the working  families tax cut.

Mr. Speaker, anybody who comes up here and says they care about  healthcare is also advocating to gut the $50 billion rural healthcare  fund to provide $200 billion in taxpayer-funded benefits for illegals.  It is insanity.

If we want to look at where this all began, as some on the other  side, Democrats, want to talk about a healthcare crisis, the healthcare  law of the land is what many refer to as ObamaCare. Let's remember the  original name that Democrats gave that bill when they created it. They  called it the Affordable Care Act. Only Democrats voted for it.  Republicans knew it was going to be anything but affordable. It was  going to interfere with the doctor-patient relationship. Unfortunately,  it has done that.

If we want to talk about affordable, maybe the only other bill that  is more laughable in its name is the Inflation Reduction Act. That is  another product brought to us by Democrat-only votes. The Inflation  Reduction Act ushered in the inflation under Joe Biden that we are  still trying to shake today.

Mr. Speaker, since the Affordable Care Act started, Americans have  seen over 80 percent increases in their healthcare costs because of a  bill created by Democrats that they want to now blame on Republicans. I  understand why they would want to try to now pawn that off on somebody  else.

If we then look over time, during COVID, they created a temporary  relief fund, Mr. Speaker, not to individuals but to insurance  companies. Democrats called it ``temporary'' in the law. They created a  temporary COVID relief tax credit to insurance companies to bail out  big insurance companies who were seeing record profits. That is now  what they want Republicans to renew.

It is an insurance company bailout that Democrats created to be  temporary. They set it up to expire. They are now saying that the world  is going to end if that insurance company bailout doesn't get renewed.

At the same time we as Republicans worked to actually lower premiums  for families, they fought it every step of the way. That is right. We  had a bill we passed through this House just a few months ago in the  working families tax credit.

Part of that bill was called the cost share reduction. It was scored  by the CBO to lower premiums for families by over 12 percent. What  happened? By the way, every Democrat voted against that, too, because  they have never cared about lowering premiums.

That bill goes to the Senate. Senate Democrats worked overtime to get  that provision removed. If we look at the Senate Committee on the  Budget website, they still brag that they removed that provision that  would have lowered premiums for families.

Republicans absolutely have worked and will continue, by the way, to  work to lower premiums for families. Make no mistake that the high  premiums that everybody faces today are a result of the inaptly named  Affordable Care Act and the many failures associated with it.

Mr. Speaker, this bill today is about ending the misery Democrats  created on families. This is not just about funding the government. It  is not just about solving other problems that we should be working to  solve. It is about getting the government back open, while not holding  the American people hostage.

That is what has disgusted the American people most during this  shutdown. It should never have happened. It has caused real suffering  for American families. Our men and women in uniform had to wonder  whether or not they were going to get paid. Air traffic controllers  already had a really stressful job and then had to show up for work  without getting paid. They missed multiple paychecks.

We know a lot of those air traffic controllers are going to work jobs  as Uber drivers. They aren't able to show up for work because they have  bills and rent due. They are trying to put food on their table, and  Democrats want to vote ``no'' tonight to keep denying them food.

The 42 million SNAP recipients are people who are low-income and who  need those food benefits.

Mr. Speaker, if Democrats vote ``no'' today, then they are voting to  deny those 42 million low-income families basic food needs. Mr.  Speaker, don't talk about how much you care about low-income people and  vote ``no'' tonight to deny them food, basic services, basic things  that American families need who shouldn't be part of the leverage  Democrats want to show their radical base, that they are fighting  Donald Trump because they are upset with the results of the election  from November.

It is time to end this madness, Mr. Speaker. Let's get this  government back open. Let's go negotiate our differences, which are  many, but let's do it while not continuing to hold the American people  hostage.

I urge my Democratic colleagues who have voted relentlessly to shut  this government down and impose this suffering on the American people  to stop. Stop imposing the suffering. Let's open the government, and  let's get back to the work of the American people.