One Big Beautiful Bill Act


Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Smith for not just  yielding but for his leadership in getting us to this point.

Mr. Speaker, we are at the precipice of the new golden age of  America. How do we get there? We get there by actually making the right  decisions for those hardworking families who have been struggling.

If you listen to the people on the other side, Mr. Speaker, who have  over and over again said they are against this bill and all the things  that are in this bill for hardworking families, you would think the  last 4 years things have been going great for middle America. I don't  know what parallel universe they have been living in, Mr. Speaker, but  we heard the message that the voters sent who said they are sick and  tired of high inflation, of high gas prices, of not being able to fill  up their grocery cart because of the spending in Washington, for  Washington, at their expense.

What does this bill do? It says that we are finally going to turn  that around and deliver a bill that focuses on families in America.

We hear a lot from the other side, Mr. Speaker, about billionaires,  tax cuts for billionaires. If you go look at this bill--everybody has  had an opportunity to read the bill. They actually read the whole bill  on the Senate floor. It only took 14 hours. If you listened, one of the  things you would find out, Mr. Speaker, is there are some new tax cuts  in this bill, but not for billionaires.

It would beg the question: Why does the other side keep hiding behind  billionaires as their excuse to vote no? Because they made a decision,  Mr. Speaker, early on, they don't want to give people back their money.  They want to keep that power in Washington. That is really what is at  stake here. That is the big fight that has been going on for years.

The other side won that fight the last few years by raising taxes,  raising spending, growing Washington. While they did that, families in  America suffered. Inflation went up for those hardworking families  while Washington grew. Interest rates went up to the point where they  couldn't even afford to buy a first-time home because Washington grew.

We said that is enough. Washington has to finally start living within  Washington's means so that families in America can finally start living  the American Dream again. That is what this bill focuses on, Mr.  Speaker.

How do we do it? We do it, number one, by locking in rates for  everybody. Nobody's taxes go up, Mr. Speaker, nobody's. Now, the other  side is upset about that, and I understand it. They don't want just the  billionaires' taxes to go up because they know in this bill the income  groups that get hit the hardest. If a ``no'' vote prevails--and we have  heard them, they are all going to vote ``no,'' Mr. Speaker. But if a  ``no'' vote prevails, the income groups that could get hit the hardest  are the lower- and middle-income groups of America. They know that.  They are watching this vote. You can say billionaires all day long, but  do you know what the new tax cuts in this bill are? There are new tax  cuts. For the waiter and waitress who are working maybe two, three  shifts at a restaurant, at a diner, barely getting by, that is the new  tax cut that we are putting in this bill.

You would say, well, then, how could the other side possibly vote  against that? Mr. Speaker, they are. Maybe a focus group told them that  if they curse enough and if they say ``billionaires'' enough, those  families will forget what is actually happening. Those families are not  going to forget because they are paying attention.

Do you know what the average pay for a worker in America who makes  tip money is under this bill? It is $32,000 a year. That is right.  Billionaires aren't even allowed to be eligible for that tax break, but  the waitress who is working two or three shifts, barely getting by,  making $32,000 a year finally gets a little bit more money.

Yes, every Democrat has bragged over here that they are going to vote  against that. They don't want that waitress to get that money back in  her pocket. However, we are going to make sure she gets that tax break,  Mr. Speaker, because she is struggling. She maybe wants to put together  a college fund for her kid. Maybe she wants to take her family on a  vacation. She is going to have that opportunity when this bill passes.

Mr. Speaker, do you know who else we are going to give opportunity to  in this bill? Sorry, it is not a billionaire again. It is that shift  worker working overtime. The other tax cut is going not to  billionaires, but to the person who is showing up at the factory,  making stuff in America, and paying taxes on the overtime.

However, they are away from their family. They are looking at that  check at the end of being away from their family for a few extra hours,  trying to make ends meet for their family, and they think: Gee, I have  got to give all that extra money back to the government, is it worth  being away from my family?

We say, you know what? Yeah, normal tax rates apply on everything  else, but if you work overtime, you are not going to pay taxes on that  overtime. This is somebody making $60,000 a year, not the billionaire.  If you say ``billionaire'' enough, maybe that shift worker won't know  what you are doing, but Mr. Speaker, they do know. They do know what is  about to happen because everybody is watching this vote. That is a good  thing because that shift worker deserves the extra money back.

It might not seem like a lot to somebody who deals with billions and  trillions of dollars up here in Washington and grows agencies by 20 to  30 percent every couple of years and just thinks if you double the size  of an agency over 5 years, somebody is going to pay for that. Do you  know who is paying for it? That hardworking family is paying for it.

We clean up waste, fraud, and abuse. It has been mocked by the other  side. They think it is cool to mock what we are doing to finally root  out waste, fraud, and abuse. Let the other party, Mr. Speaker, be the  defender of waste, fraud, and abuse in Washington, but we are cleaning  it up in this bill.

USDA has pointed out that there is about $10 billion a year in waste  just in the SNAP program because of fraud and improper payments. These  payments are not going to children that you hear about on the floor,  and not all these other people. It is going to improper payments, to  fraud, $10 billion a year.

However, Mr. Speaker, when you hear about the billionaires and you  say, well, how could anybody vote against this bill? Think about what a  ``no'' vote means. I am proud of the ``yes'' vote that we are about to  pass to help those families. Mr. Speaker, everybody who votes ``no,''  make no mistake about it, everybody who votes ``no'' is going to be  asked a question by that waitress making $32,000 a year saying: Why do  you want me to pay more money on my tips so that $10 billion of fraud  goes out in the SNAP program? You are voting against cleaning it up,  and you voted against no tax on tips. That is the ``no'' vote.

You can't hide behind the billionaire anymore. You are going to have  to face the reality, Mr. Speaker, that this bill actually delivers for  the working families of this country who have been struggling. They  haven't been living on easy street the last 4 years.

They went to the polls in November and said: We want to try a  different approach. This is that different approach, to give them more  power, to give them more opportunity.

Mr. Speaker, do you know who we are giving opportunity to in this  bill? Again, if you are going to vote ``no,'' this is what the ``no''  vote will take away. We actually create something unique in this bill.  It hasn't been talked about yet, but it is in the bill. I am really  proud of it. We create opportunity in school choice for every--not  billionaire--low-income family. Every low-income family in America will  be eligible for a scholarship so that their kid can go to the school of  their choice if they are in a failing school.

Now, if you vote ``no,'' Mr. Speaker, how do you tell that family  that their kid doesn't have the same opportunity which they deserve  that every other kid in America can have?

If somebody can afford it, they can go to a private school. If that  low-income family can't afford it, we are finally giving them a  lifeline in this bill, Mr. Speaker, and saying you can have the same  opportunity. A ``no'' vote says you don't think that parent deserves  the same opportunity, and then you hide behind billionaires.

There is going to be no hiding, Mr. Speaker. We all know when this  board lights up what the consequences are.

Why do we say there is going to be a golden era in this country? We  are securing our border in this bill, too. We are opening up American  energy in this bill, everywhere from the North Slope of Alaska to, yes,  the Gulf of America, where President Biden had shut down American  energy.

He green-lighted Russia's Nord Stream pipeline so Russia could  produce their energy, funding billions of dollars to go fund their war  against Ukraine, but in America, we were shut down. We open it up in  this bill, Mr. Speaker.

American workers get to produce American energy, not just for  America. It is going to lower the price at the pump. Again, if you are  a middle-income family--the billionaire doesn't care what the cost of  gasoline is. Do you know who does? That waitress making $32,000 a year  cares. When she saves that tip money, maybe she can go on a trip, get  in her car and drive and afford the gasoline now because we will be  producing more.

We actually have lease sales in this bill. For once, we can produce  energy in America. We have great natural resources. We just had them  shut down for 4 years by an administration that said no to American  energy. They said yes to other countries' energy. Iran was able to sell  their oil on world markets thanks to the previous administration. That  party is over.

When America starts producing more energy, not only does it help  lower the price for families here in America, not only does it create  great jobs here in America, but all the bad guys around the world-- Russia, Iran, Venezuela, you name your country--they are not going to  have a cartel-like exclusive license on global energy anymore because  America is going to be back in the game.

Let's get this country back in the game. Let's get this country back  on track. Let's actually promote opportunity and the American Dream  again for anybody who wants it. Do you want to work? There is going to  be more opportunity than you have ever had before.

If you are disabled on Medicaid, right now you have been crowded out  of those programs by people turning down work. Able-bodied people, 35- year-olds sitting at home playing video games are going to have to now  go get a job. That is right. By the way, that is a good thing for them.  Their mom doesn't want them sitting in the basement playing video games  anyway. Now it no longer will be crowding out Medicaid for the truly  needy people who deserve it. The disabled people will not be getting  crowded out of those programs by people who can actually go get a job,  and there are going to be a lot of great jobs, Mr. Speaker, a lot of  great jobs in this country. America is coming back.

You can vote ``no'' all day long, and you can hide behind  billionaires all day long, but we are going to keep moving forward  because this country doesn't sit down in the fetal position.

America is ready for a rebirth, and we are going to deliver it.  President Trump is at the helm now. It is a new day. World leaders know  it. The bad guys around the world know it. Those hardworking families  who have been waiting for this relief for a long, long time are finally  going to realize help is on the way because of Republicans in Congress.  Any Democrats that want to join, Mr. Speaker, are free to, but they are  bragging that they don't want to be a part of this.

Do you know what? The hardworking families of America are hungry for  this kind of change. Take power away from Washington, give it back to  the people, and watch what happens. Great things are ahead for this  country. We are the greatest country in the history of the world. We  are finally going to restore that great American Dream and that hope  for those families who have been waiting way too long. That help is  coming.

We are going to pass this bill. President Trump is going to sign it.  It is going to be a great Fourth of July. Let's pass the bill.