Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700776/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. MORENO. Mr. President, I would like to echo my colleague's  sentiment. I think he said it beautifully and perfectly. I think he  honored these three brave soldiers really well.

I would like to, of course, join him in recognizing Capt. Seth Koval,  Capt. Curtis Angst, and MSgt Tyler Simmons, who made the ultimate  sacrifice for the United States of America and gave their lives for our  country.

You see them pictured here. I am a dad of kids that age, and I can't  imagine what their mom and dad, their siblings, and family members must  be going through. It is far too easy for us to take the blessings of  freedom and liberty for granted here in America. We are lucky to live  in a stable democracy.

And while our public discourse can sometimes be heated, I look at my  colleague from Vermont, and sometimes at the end of the day we leave  and we are frustrated and aggravated about why we can't get this or  that, I think it is important for us to acknowledge that at the end of  the day, we can still break bread together. At the end of the day, we  acknowledge, at least we must acknowledge that what unites us is much,  much greater than what divides us.

The honest truth is that we live in the luckiest--we are absolutely  the luckiest people on earth to live here in the United States of  America. We enjoy the blessings of liberty every day, but on days like  today, it is important for us to remember why we can live with these  liberties, and it is because of the selfless sacrifice of young men and  young women, but in this case, three young men, that gave their lives  for that.

They signed up, as my colleague from Ohio said, without hesitation.  They served honorably, and with incredible sacrifice they gave the  ultimate to this Nation. These three Ohioans were the most courageous  and selfless individuals of our great Nation.

They were in the National Guard, not for fame, not for fortune,  because they always felt ready to be called on to protect and defend  our great Nation. As distinguished members of Ohio's National Guard,  they answered that call that their unit was activated. They didn't  hesitate. They didn't doubt. They didn't worry. They were ready to go  and serve, not for themselves, for all of us, every single one of us.

It is their sacrifice that allows us to debate the issues of this  democracy every single day.

So when the Senate concludes its business today and each of us goes  our own merry way and we sleep in safety and peace, let us not forget  that there is a soldier in some distant corner of the world standing  watch on our behalf, looking out for us.

And if their families are anything like my family or like my wife,  there is a mom waiting by the phone, hoping and praying that they never  get the call that these three soldiers' families got.

As we think of those young airmen, Captain Koval, Captain Angst,  Master Sergeant Simmons, who put their lives in harm's way for this  country. Let us remember these words from the Air Force chaplain's  ``Book of Prayers'':

Our Heavenly Father, in this hour of stunned grief, our       first reaction is silence. But in our silence, as many airmen       before us have done, we turn to you and ask for your presence       and reassurance and guidance.

My colleague Senator Husted and I have put together a resolution  honoring the families. We will file that tomorrow in the U.S. Senate.  We will also fly to the Dover Air Force Base to pay our respects to the  airmen in person.

I think what all of us have to do in a moment like this is to  understand that, with the issues that we debate  here every single day in this Hall--that will live well beyond any of  our lifetimes and that existed well before any of us walked the Earth-- we will have the humility to understand the weight of our decision  making; that, while, yes--sadly, by the way--politics always plays a  role in a political environment, we will take note of how everything we  do affects many, many American families.

I would ask at this moment in which we are debating a lot of issues,  that we just take one step back and realize, with deep humility, the  responsibility we should all feel for these families. When we see these  young men, we should realize that the decisions made here in  Washington, DC, carry enormous weight and not to be flippant about it  and don't think about what it means for a social media post.

These are really important decisions we make here. Thank God we have  soldiers like these three young men who were willing to answer the call  of this country. As we get into heated debates between Republicans and  Democrats and we start posturing and wondering what this group or that  group is going to think, let's just take a little moment and realize  that, if not for the sacrifice of men like these, we would not even be  able to do any of it.

Thank you for giving us the opportunity to honor these three men.  Hopefully, what this will add during this week that is obviously going  to be contentious will be a moment of self-reflection and humility for  this Chamber which, I think, is so desperately, desperately needed.

To the moms and dads of these three young soldiers, I can't even  process what you are going through. I can't even imagine the emotions  that you are feeling. Just know that America is grateful beyond words  for the sacrifices that your heroic sons made.