Save America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700830/save-america-act


Mr. MORENO. Madam President, I thought I would give my colleague from  California some fantastic news. There are so many times in politics we  hear bad news, but I am going to give him good news. When he takes a  moment to read the actual bill, you don't have to read much. You just  go right to page 1.

It says:

Ensuring Only Citizens Are Registered to Vote in Elections.

It says right here, at the bottom, that you can provide any of the  following. I am not a lawyer, but I assume ``any'' is a pretty  comprehensive word that means ``any.''

It says:

A form of identification issued consistent--

Let me read this slowly--       consistent with the requirements of the Real ID Act of 2005.

He just stated that the Real ID does not count. On page 2, lines 1  through 4, a Real ID absolutely does count as voter ID.

The idea that asking somebody to prove they are a U.S. citizen one  time when they register to vote and to show who they are every time  they vote is basic common sense. Now, it is not common in California  because, in California, they don't require that.

My Democrat colleague is walking out of the Chamber as I say this,  but I also would have liked him to have heard even better news--even  better news--which is that you can go to Ohio and get gas for a $1.75  less than in California. Why? Because of California's ridiculous  policies. That is what is driving the price of fuel up for his  constituents.

Where is the price of gas right now that he was railing about?  Twenty-one cents a gallon less than it was at the end of the Biden  administration.

I know we get into a lot of arguments here, and I know I am going to  have my amazing colleague from Utah go further into this bill, but I  just wanted to very briefly debunk two very simple things: California's  problems are California's causing. The reason your gas prices are high  is because you have basically banned all fossil fuels in your State  while begging--by the way, do you want to know how California gets gas  today? It leaves the port in Jacksonville on a ship. It goes to the  Bahamas. It gets unloaded from that ship onto another ship. It then  traverses from the Bahamas, by the way, off the coast of Florida. It  goes all the way around the Panama Canal and disembarks in California.  Why? Because they refuse to have a pipeline go through their State.  That is why the price of oil is high in California. It has nothing to  do with what is going on in the Middle East, but yet we digress.

We are here to talk about two simple things: Should you have to prove  you are a citizen when you register to vote and should you have to  prove that you are who you are when you actually cast a ballot?