Recognizing Eagle Scout Oliver Royal


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Mr. Oliver  Royal of Plano, Texas, on achieving the rank of Eagle Scout and his  continued dedication to public service.

Oliver is currently a senior at Plano West Senior High School who  will be graduating this month with Honors. From a young age, he has  been a decorated Cub Scout and Boy Scout with Troop 219 in Plano.  Oliver has earned the Arrow of Light badge and served as the Senior  Patrol Leader and a member of the Order of the Arrow scouting honor  society. On October 21, 2024, he earned the rank of Eagle Scout. For  his Eagle Project, Oliver constructed two raised bed planter boxes for  the Plano Chinese Alliance Church as a show of appreciation for the  Church's generosity in allowing Troop 219 to host meetings using their  space. In the planter boxes, he chose to set flowers to help promote  relaxation, improve air quality, and create a peaceful and welcoming  environment for church attendees.

In addition to his exceptional academics, Oliver previously served as  a U.S. Youth Ambassador to South Korea as part of the State  Department's National Security Language Initiative Program. He is the  President of his school's Model United Nations Club and plays the  trombone in concert and marching band. Moreover, Oliver received first  place in the Texas History Essay Contest. As a recipient of the Czech  Republic government's Summer School of Slavonic Studies scholarship,  Oliver will be studying in the Czech Republic this summer. He is an  incoming freshman at the University of Texas at Austin, where he will  study International Relations and Global Studies and participate in  their Army ROTC program. After graduation, Oliver plans to earn his  doctorate degree and serve as a Foreign Service Officer with the State  Department.

I have requested the United States flag to be flown over our Nation's  Capitol to honor this special occasion. I congratulate Oliver, and I  wish him all the best in his future endeavors.