Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Lisa Singleton


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and celebrate Mrs.  Lisa Singleton of Bowie County, Texas, and to present her with the  Congressional Patriot Award. Lisa has dedicated her life to faithfully  serving her community and country.

Born in Hope, Arkansas, Lisa attended Hope High School, graduating in  1986, and later completed office vocational courses at Texarkana  College. In 1990, Lisa married the love of her life, Gary Singleton,  with whom she has shared many pets, memories, and successes.

Lisa's professional journey has been as diverse as it has been  impactful. She has worked as a receiving clerk for Walmart, a local  rental car agent, and in jewelry sales. Yet her greatest professional  passion has been in the healthcare industry. She has served her  community as a postpartum department unit clerk, an emergency  department unit clerk, and as office manager and receptionist for Dr.  Petty's Podiatry.

Beyond her professional career, Lisa's dedication to civic engagement  has been extraordinary. She has been a volunteer with the Bowie County  Republican Party for 35 years, currently serving as Precinct Chair and  Volunteer Coordinator, inspiring and organizing others to participate  in the democratic process. Her community outreach extends beyond the  Party through her work in voter registration and voter engagement at  local events and festivals.

Since 1992, Lisa has proudly served as an Election Clerk and Election  Judge with the Bowie County Election Administration Office. Among her  most notable accomplishments, she has served as Treasurer (two terms),  Vice President (one term), and President (two terms) of the Bowie  County Republican Women, a chapter affiliated with the Texas Federation  of Republican Women (TFRW). Outside of her service, Lisa is also close  to completing a personal goal--visiting all fifty states, with only two  remaining.

Lisa Singleton's lifelong commitment to her community, her  profession, and her Nation truly exemplifies what it means to be a  patriot. It is an honor to recognize her exceptional contributions and  to present her with the Congressional Patriot Award in appreciation of  her steadfast service to the people of Bowie County and the United  States of America.