Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Pat Terrell


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr. Patrick  ``Pat'' Terrell of Burr Ridge, Illinois, and present him with the  Congressional Patriot Award. Pat has dedicated himself to faithfully  serving our community and country.

After receiving over forty Division I scholarship offers, Pat  ultimately decided to play football at the University of Notre Dame as  a member of the Fighting Irish's 1988 National Championship team. He  graduated in 1990 with a bachelor's degree in business administration  and a minor in international marketing. During the 1990 NFL Draft, Pat  was drafted in the second round by the Los Angeles Rams and part of the  1990 All-Rookie Team. He also played with the New York Jets, Carolina  Panthers, and Green Bay Packers from 1994 to 1998. After retiring from  football in 1999, Pat flew corporate jets for United Airlines and Delta  Air Lines before becoming a Captain at  American Trans Air, now ATA Airlines. Moreover, he founded Terrell  Materials, a very successful company that specializes in high-volume  concrete manufacturing for runways and taxiways at major airports.

Understanding the power of influence, Pat served as a role model and  leader. He advocated for many of his teammates during pivotal moments  in their lives and has been involved in many community advancement  initiatives. Alongside his wife Beth, Pat founded Team Terrell to help  promote and fundraise for the American Diabetes Association. He also  served as a regional spokesman for United Way and was honored as an NFL  Player representative for the United Negro College Fund. During his  time as a pilot, Pat volunteered to transport hundreds of American and  allied troops through the Middle East during Operation Iraqi Freedom.  On top of that, Pat and Beth have poured countless hours into  volunteering with local schools, educational programs, and park  district programs.

It is an honor to bestow Pat with the Patriot Award for his  exceptional service to our Nation. I thank him for all he has done.