Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. FALLON. Madam Chair, this year's NDAA builds on an outstanding  year for our military and ensures our servicemembers are a lethal and  ready force and that they are going to be a force that is going to be  able to project power and will be capable of confronting threats from  our southern border to our eastern flank.

This NDAA continues to root out the Biden-era policies that detracted  from our main goal, which, of course, is winning and fighting our  Nation's wars and, even better, deterring, so we don't have to fight  them in the first place.

DEI is gone. Merit is back. Standards are high. Our servicemen and - women will, once again, be the most highly trained, ready fighting  force the world has ever known.

In the last year, recruitment and retention soared. As a result, this  NDAA gives the services the end strength they need to build and sustain  a force equal to any mission. Not to rest on a great year for  recruiting, we are expanding access for our military recruiters at  secondary schools and other institutions of higher learning.

As our men and women in uniform are our priority, the NDAA authorizes  a 3.8 percent servicemember raise, and that is much-needed. It also  extends special pay authorities to attract and retain the best talent  in some of the most critical career fields.

Additionally, we are enhancing the subcommittee's oversight of the  Military Health System and remain committed to addressing the  persistent shortage of childcare for our servicemembers through  expansion of childcare pilot programs.

Finally, this NDAA continues to deliver on our long-term goals of  increasing quality of life because that is the one thing that is most  important. The chairman has done a fabulous job at that, so this NDAA  will continue to prioritize servicemembers and their families.

Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues to support the bill.