Recognizing the Evergreen High School Shooting


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695839/recognizing-the-evergreen-high-school-shooting


Ms. PETTERSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the tragic  shooting at Evergreen High School in Evergreen, Colorado, that occurred  on September 10, 2025.

This senseless act of violence has left students, educators, and the  greater Evergreen community in shock and grief. Two victims were  hospitalized, and countless others are coping with the trauma of that  day.

The courage of first responders, educators, staff, and community  members helped prevent further harm and demonstrated the strength of  our community in the face of crisis. Students and faculty at the school  promptly followed safety protocols that saved lives, and a nearby  recreation center employee sheltered more than 70 students until the  danger had passed. The vigilance and quick action of community members  inside and outside the school helped ensure the safety of students and  staff.

The Jefferson County Sheriff, Reggie Marinelli, and the entire Police  Department quickly responded with extraordinary service, arriving in  under two minutes. That swift response saved lives and provided  reassurance to the Evergreen community in its greatest moment of need.

In the aftermath of the incident, the Evergreen Parent Teacher  Student Association (PTSA) mobilized to provide on-the-ground support  for the community, including mental health resources, warm meals, and  safe spaces. These community volunteers--in addition to many other  supportive groups and organizations--have played a critical role in  connecting families with needed services and ensuring the entire  community has everything they need to re-enter their school.

Like far too many communities across Colorado and the Nation, this is  not the first time the Evergreen community has been touched by gun  violence. Yet, in the aftermath of this tragedy, Evergreen has  demonstrated extraordinary resilience, uniting in support of one  another as the process of healing begins.

On behalf of the people of Colorado's 7th Congressional District, I  stand with the Evergreen community, offer my condolences to the victims  and their families, and reaffirm my commitment to ensuring every child  can go to school without fear for their safety.