2027 Presidential Budget Request Will Make Life Harder


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702037/2027-presidential-budget-request-will-make-life-harder


Mr. MENEFEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose President Trump's  budget. A budget is a statement of values, and this one shows what  President Trump cares about: his senseless war first and American  families last.

Across the country and in my home in Houston, Americans are fed up  with a government that seems more focused on endless wars than on  whether people can afford groceries or gas.

President Trump's proposed budget cuts many of the programs that  would offer even a little bit of relief to the economic pain he has  caused. It would even cut childcare, ignoring the realities families  face. As a father of two, I know how costly childcare is, and I am  troubled by leaders who would make it harder, not easier, for parents  to work and raise their children.

We are feeling these cuts uniquely in my city of Houston. Despite  having some of the most food-insecure neighborhoods in the entire  country, we have seen massive cuts to food banks, including tens of  millions of dollars from the Houston Food Bank.

Despite having the largest medical research hub in the entire country  in the Texas Medical Center, which relies on a routine basis on NIH  grants, we have seen $5 billion cut from the NIH.

Despite having some of the most environmental injustice-ridden  communities in the entire United States of America, we have seen more  than 50 percent in funding cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency.  We know that those cuts are coming mostly from the environmental  justice divisions.

This budget is immoral. It is an attack on Americans. It is going to  severely harm people in Houston.

The President's policies have raised costs, worsened the  affordability crisis, undermined access to healthcare, and delivered  tax breaks for billionaires while working families fall further behind.  Millions of people risk losing vital care and financial security while  a small number of billionaires see their wealth grow. Think about that:  Families are going without care so that the rich can get richer.

We are the wealthiest nation on Earth. Our budget can and must afford  investments in childcare and healthcare and support for our seniors  while managing our finances responsibly. What we cannot afford are  priorities that put the richest first and leave working families  behind.

Mr. Speaker, President Trump's budget represents not America First,  but America last.