Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act


Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my friend from  Minnesota, Whip Emmer's bill, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act, a  bill I am proud to cosponsor. This bill would prohibit the Federal  Reserve from issuing a central bank digital currency, or a CBDC, to  anyone.

I don't think the Federal Reserve has the authority to do this. In  fact, a cursory, simple review of the Federal Reserve Act shows that  the Federal Reserve does not have the legal authority to issue a CBDC  to individuals absent explicit authorizing legislation from Congress.  The Supreme Court has also recognized Congress' power to coin money and  regulate the value thereof, implicitly denying to the executive branch  or to the Fed the ability to do this without congressional authority.

That said, I think it is prudent to explicitly deprive the Fed of the  authority to do this for a variety of reasons.

As has been said, Americans' financial privacy is at stake here, and  we should not try to compete with China by becoming more like China.  The argument for a CBDC that Beijing is doing this, so we should do it,  too, why on Earth would we want to imitate, emulate, or copy Beijing's  surveillance-state authoritarianism?

To my friend on the other side of the aisle who just made the  argument that we are behind and the European Central Bank is doing  this, when have we in this country, the United States of America,  wanted to emulate Europe?

This is America. We do it the American way, not the European way, not  the Chinese way, and not the Communist, socialist way. We do it the  free enterprise way. We do it the limited government way. We do it the  way to honor Americans' privacy through the GENIUS Act and through  private stablecoins. That is the way we should do it. That is the way  we should lead in innovation.

Yes, personal privacy is at stake. Surveillance of Americans'  individual financial transactions through a CBDC does raise serious  privacy concerns and concerns about government control and  politicization of loans, online payments, credit scores, tax  compliance, Federal contracts, monetary policy, and the like.

In addition to these privacy concerns, a central bank digital  currency would centralize Americans' finances, eroding the banking  deposit base. That would decrease competition and choice.

This is a big concern that I have, that a CBDC would substantially  decrease the availability of credit and increase the cost of financial  services and products for consumers, destroying our conventional,  traditional banking system.

Our banking system, in contrast to Europe and China, is the envy of  the world due to its free market principles, dynamism, and diversity.  Banks of all different sizes serve customers, communities, and  businesses with all different needs. Capitalism promotes market  demands, which incentivize banks to offer products that fit the needs  of their consumers at the best price possible.

We don't want to eliminate that. We don't want to erode the deposit  base with a CBDC.

I ask, Mr. Speaker, would we truly want to lose the benefits of a  diverse banking system that makes the U.S. the global leader in the  financial system? Do we want to take actions to be more like China or  Europe and decrease Americans' right to privacy?

I went to the European Central Bank. I heard them lecture us about a  CBDC, and it made me more convinced than ever that we don't want to be  like Europe.

The answer is that we do not want to be like Europe and that we do  not want to be like the Communists in Beijing. We must disintermediate  our banking system and allow for the creation of a CBDC. We must not  threaten Americans' access to privacy.

That is why I support this legislation, and I urge all of my  colleagues to do so, as well.

If my Republican colleagues really don't like a CBDC, then vote for  the GENIUS Act, which takes away all the arguments for it.