Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''


Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Chairman Hill, for bringing  this important resolution of disapproval to the House floor, nullifying  the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's disastrous overdraft rule.

Let me set the record straight, Mr. Speaker. This resolution of  disapproval doesn't increase fees, as my friends on the other side of  the aisle insinuate. In fact, what it does do is it invalidates a  regulation that will take this critical lifeline away from many of my  constituents.

Indeed, for many families across this country, living paycheck to  paycheck, overdraft services are a critical safety net. Without this  service, necessities would become harder to obtain. Overdraft services  are not a luxury. They are a lifeline. For my friends on the other side  of the aisle to use incendiary language like ``shameful,'' I submit  what is shameful is to take away this lifeline from our constituents.

Consumers understand the costs associated with overdraft services,  and they willingly opt in because they find value in the protection  that it offers. They are not coerced. They make an informed decision,  knowing that a small, predictable fee prevents far more severe  consequences like a bounced check or late fees.

It is a convenience that allows consumers to avoid the embarrassment  of being turned down at the point of sale. Unfortunately, my Democrat  colleagues refuse to recognize this basic truth, choosing instead to  label overdraft products as predatory.

Let me reiterate that point, Mr. Speaker. Consumers choose to use  this service, and they opt into the service voluntarily.

The first option under the new rule forces financial institutions to  treat overdrafts as extensions of credit. This change would severely  limit access to the product, especially for those who need it most.  Financial institutions would have to underwrite each overdraft  transaction, evaluating a borrower's ability to pay a relatively small  amount. This would be both impractical and inefficient.

The alternative proposed by the Bureau, a safe harbor charge cap of  $5, would force many banks to exit this product altogether. Credit  unions would also discontinue this service. This would price out the  very consumers who rely on overdrafts the most.

They use the word ``predatory.'' Mr. Speaker, let me tell you what is  predatory. What is predatory is taking away this product from the  American people and pushing them into actual nonbank predatory lenders  and usurious products.

As was mentioned earlier, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has  already concluded that overdraft fee caps hamper, rather than foster,  financial inclusion. The consequences of the rule have been studied,  and it is evident that this cap would harm consumers by limiting their  access to necessary financial services.

Finally, this idea that smaller banks and credit unions are  unaffected by the rule is simply wrong. While institutions with less  than $10 billion in assets are purportedly excluded from the rule, they  will still be forced to deal with this cap just to stay competitive.

The truth is it is the big banks they are protecting. The big Wall  Street banks can afford to go without these fees. It is the community  banks in our neighborhoods and in our communities who can't afford to  provide this product without the fees.

Mr. Speaker, just in conclusion, this is a real-life testimonial  about the value of these overdraft protections from a community bank in  my district:

We have a customer with two children and a husband in the       military. As you know, things can be difficult when one       parent is deployed and one parent is alone with children,       trying to manage finances, school, after-school activities,       and church.

As the customer said, things can be overwhelming, even       exclusive of her husband's deployment. This customer       approached me in church with her head down, saying that she       was having a tough time with things. Some expenses surprised       her, and she was suddenly out of money for the month. She was       okay, as she had groceries, gas, and her bills paid, until       she got a flat tire on the way to a school function. She got       the car to the tire shop.

Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I will finish the story.

The tire was irreparable. She had to buy a new tire for a       couple of hundred dollars she didn't have. She was not able       to keep up with her car. She had to buy the new tire. There       was no choice.

She ran her debit card, and it covered the tire. The family       went home. She checked her account when she got home,       wondering how it was paid for, when she didn't have the money       in it. It was her overdraft that covered it. She thanked me       that her community bank was there for her to cover her       overdraft so she could keep moving without having to call for       help.

Mr. Speaker, needless to say, the banker was tremendously humbled  that she was able to help this mother out due to the overdraft. They  are there in time of need.