Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700514/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  New York (Mr. Meeks) for yielding.

Donald Trump has taken America to war without authorization, without  explanation, and without a strategy or an exit plan.

Six brave servicemembers have already given the ultimate sacrifice.  Others have been wounded, and Americans are stranded across the region.  What do we hear from our Commander in Chief? He shrugs and says, ``That  is the way it is'' and how about that ballroom?

The American people do not want their sons and daughters shipped to  another war in the Middle East when they don't even know what the  mission is. They want a country where their children can do better and  reach higher than their parents did, where they don't just survive but  can actually get ahead and where a doctor's appointment is not a  luxury.

What are they getting instead? Republicans have been raiding their  healthcare, their Social Security, and their veterans benefits, all to  enrich the billionaire class. Illegal tariffs are jacking up prices.  Secret police are murdering Americans in the streets. A corrupt DOJ is  covering for pedophiles while denying their victims justice.

Today, you can stand with Americans who are entitled to know what the  objective of this war is and what the cost will be. They deserve to  know the sacrifice will not fall just on working and military families  but will be shared by the wealthy and powerful.

Today, you can join us in telling the President that the Constitution  is not just a suggestion; that our country belongs to its people, to  the American people; that the power to declare war belongs to the  people's Representatives; and that 250 years later, whatever Donald  Trump may think, America still has no kings.