Pay Our Homeland Defenders Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701352/pay-our-homeland-defenders-act


Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman  from Connecticut for all her work and for yielding.

Madam Speaker, the Republican TSA shutdown has dragged on now for  over a month. Officers haven't been paid in weeks. Hundreds have walked  off the job because they simply can't afford to work for no pay.  Travelers are stuck waiting in lines that have soared up to 9 hours  because Republicans have decided to use airport security as a political  weapon.

If they cared about what we are seeing in airports across the  country, if they really cared about the chaos they have caused, they  would end this today. House Democrats have a bill to get TSA funded, to  get these officers paid, and to get passengers where they need to go  safely.

We have tried repeatedly to bring it to the floor, and every time  Republicans have stood in the way. If any one of them are feeling a bit  of regret, they could help us force a vote. We have a discharge  petition right there on the dais. Not one Republican has signed it.

Why the obstruction? Why refuse to solve an agonizingly solvable  problem? Well, Donald Trump said it himself. He will not support a  single dollar for the TSA. He will not allow airports to get back to  normal unless we make it harder to vote and harder to register to vote,  unless we drown voters in red tape and ban mail-in voting, except for  the President.

That is what this has come down to. Our national security is being  compromised. Airports are in chaos. Officers and travelers are the ones  paying  the price because Donald Trump views them as nothing more than  collateral damage in his attempt to rig the midterm elections.

If there is any Republican across the aisle who is ready to choose  their constituents and the working people of this country over Trump,  if anyone in the GOP is starting to realize this is spinning out of  control, join us. Let's end this insanity. Let's pay TSA workers, and  we can have an ICE operation that works like every other police  department across the country.

Madam Speaker, let's do it today. Put the safety and security of the  American people first.