Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692545/rescissions-act-of-2025


Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, Sunday is Father's Day, and  what do dads want? They want a fair shot. They want to know that if  they work hard, they can provide for their families. Yet, right now,  most families in America can't even afford the basics.

Mr. Speaker, 60 percent of families in the richest nation on Earth  cannot afford the first rung of the American Dream. What are my  Republican colleagues doing about that?

The majority voted for a big, ugly bill that makes it even harder to  raise a child in America. It takes away healthcare from 16 million  Americans. It takes food benefits from working parents. My colleagues  on the other side of the aisle are cutting half a trillion dollars from  Medicare and hiking the costs of everyday items with their tariffs, all  to fund tax breaks for the billionaire class.

That alone is a betrayal of working families, but the GOP is not  stopping there. My Republican colleagues are not stopping at  dismantling people's financial security. Today, Republicans are  threatening their physical security because when you defund public  broadcasting, you are defunding emergency broadcasts during hurricane  season, tornado season, and wildfire season.

That is not even enough. The majority has to take even more. Today,  my colleagues are also voting to dismantle our national security.

There are three shields that defend our homeland: defense, diplomacy,  and development. When you destroy our capacity to address famine,  control disease, and build infrastructure in developing nations, you  are ceding our power to our rivals. You are planting the seeds of  future wars.

A prominent Republican said this week that he just couldn't justify  these investments. In this debate, I have heard that this is about  putting America first. What are Republicans talking about? They just  cut food programs and healthcare for American families.

Here is what my Republican colleagues fundamentally don't seem to  understand: There is no security for billionaires in this country  without security for a hungry child. There is no security for the  ultrarich donors without security for working parents.

In the words of President Kennedy: ``If a free society cannot help  the many who are poor, it cannot save the few who are rich.''

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to please vote ``no.''