Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701851/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-iran


Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, 6 weeks ago, Democrats  brought a War Powers Resolution to this House floor. We called on  Republicans to join us and bring this conflict to an end. They refused.

Mike Johnson declared with pride that Donald Trump's mission is  nearly accomplished.

Well, 6 weeks later, what are Americans seeing? We are seeing gas  prices out of control, grocery prices going up, and a fertilizer  shortage that is threatening to drive prices even higher. Americans are  seeing hundreds of casualties in a war that no one has given them the  respect to explain.

However, one thing is clear: Americans are being asked to foot the  bill with the lives of their sons and daughters. With the $2 billion a  day that we are spending on this conflict, that could be going to help  Americans afford to go see a doctor, help feed our seniors and hungry  veterans, help drive down prices and help Americans who are working  hard and not making it be able to afford the rising cost of gas and  housing and groceries that are being driven ever higher by this  conflict.

Before this war, we were in a position of strength. Iran was  weakened. The Strait of Hormuz was in no danger of being closed.  However, now, Donald Trump and his enablers have marched us into a  position of far more weakness.

Our goal now of this conflict is to return to the status quo before  this conflict, but who is paying the price? Who is paying the price for  this? It is the American people. Don't take my word for it. President  Donald Trump told us because of this war: It is not possible for us to  take care of daycare, Medicaid, Medicare. Imagine that. That is an  American working family last doctrine.

Mr. Speaker, today, Republicans have a choice. Are you going to  continue to enable him and his madness, or are you going to prioritize  Americans, the working families of this country, and vote ``yes'' for  this resolution?