Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of 2025


Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr. Speaker, let's be clear here.  Republicans aren't worried about noncitizens voting. They are afraid of  actual American citizens voting. Why? It is because they are losing.

Among women they are losing by 10 points in the upcoming midterms  because losing is what happens when my colleagues tell people they are  going to tackle the high cost of living, and they turn around and hike  their healthcare premiums. They hike grocery costs. Also, billionaires  can weasel out of paying their fair share.

They are trying to say this is a voter ID bill. That is not what is  happening here.

Let's just look at a typical mom. My colleagues on the other side of  the aisle must know some working mothers.

The ones I hear from across my district and across this country are  struggling to put food on the table for their kids. They work two jobs  to try and make ends meet. They are trying to juggle getting their kids  to school and maybe catch an occasional game. They fear they will never  find childcare they can afford. They pray nobody in the family gets  sick because they can't afford a doctor either.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans are going to say to those women that because  they got married and changed their names, they have to go down to a  clerk and prove that they are citizens, sign affidavits, and do this in  person.

This is a minefield of red tape that the majority has put in front of  women and American citizens and their right to vote.

Thanks to the gentlewoman from South Carolina (Ms. Mace), the so- called champion of women and safe places, this bill will now go into  effect immediately, which means that primaries that are weeks from now,  all of these people are going to be met with the fact that they didn't  have time or know that they had to prove their citizenship.

Good luck voting, ladies.

As a kicker, the bill mandates that every State turn over their voter  rolls to DHS and Kristi Noem.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is an outrage. This is election rigging. This  is voter suppression.

The American people aren't going to stand for it, and nobody should  vote for it.