Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694868/energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. GRIFFITH.  8.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Chairman, my amendment is a necessary amendment. It  addresses the importance of all types of energy research and  development, R&D, funding at the Department of Energy, DOE,  specifically, the energy research being conducted at the Office of  Fossil Energy.

Any effective plan to handle increased energy demand must take into  account our Nation's vast supply of coal and natural gas and our talent  for technological innovation.

Artificial intelligence and the data centers to support it are going  to require a boatload of additional power. While we don't know the  exact amount of electricity we need, we know it is going to be a lot  more than we have today because our country is facing increased  electricity demand for the first time in 10 years. The appetite of AI  and data centers is enormous. AI needs to be developed, controlled, and  led by the United States of America, not an adversarial or competitive  nation like China.

China is projected to increase its emissions for the foreseeable  future and reportedly began construction in 2024 on coal units  equivalent to 94.5 gigawatts of power. That is a lot, Mr. Chairman.

Additionally, China is financing a number of coal-fired plants in  Africa and other countries with emerging economies. China is  responsible for 93 percent of new coal power plant construction, and I  don't believe that we should let our expertise and our vast amounts of  coal in this country, good, clean coal, wither.

As I have said before, in the developing world, more energy means  more hope and less poverty, and that helps us, as well. We take for  granted, in this case, that our lights are going to come on when we hit  that switch and turn it on. That is not always going to be the case if  we don't continue to use all-of-the-above energy strategies.

Developing countries don't want to force their people to live in  poverty because of a lack of energy, so they are going to use coal.  What we can do is produce that coal. We can help them if we unleash our  technological advantages and help find better ways to use coal and  natural gas more cleanly. We should use our expertise in finding ways  to control emissions with carbon capture and other pollution control  technologies.

That is why DOE funding for fossil and renewable research is vital.  We need to produce and then export the best, cleanest, and efficient  energy technology to the world. It helps us, and it helps places like  India and sub-Saharan Africa, where many of their people don't have a  steady supply of electricity. Nobody can blame them for using dirty  coal and those Chinese technology plants, which are not as good as the  U.S. plants, because they want to make sure their people have a chance  at prosperity, as well.

DOE plays an important role in this R&D, but we can do a lot more for  fossil energy innovation and exploration. That is what the amendment  does.

In the past few fiscal years, the delta between renewable energy  research and fossil energy has really widened for the research that we  are doing.

I am advocating with this amendment that we shouldn't ignore our  fossil fuel efficiency and carbon mitigation research.

My amendment increases the fossil energy account by $6,875,000, or 1  percent, with an offset from the departmental expenses account.

To be clear, I am not against renewable energy research. I just  believe we shouldn't be putting all of our eggs in one basket.

I urge my colleagues to support an all-of-the-above energy policy  and,  more importantly, an all-of-the-above research policy at DOE so that we  can expand our ability to deal with the energy demand increases and  that we can have research for a commodity that we have the world's  greatest supply of, coal and natural gas.

We ought to use it. God blessed us with this resource. We ought to  use it. We ought to use it cleanly. We ought to use it responsibly. We  ought to be able to export our technologies to the rest of the world.  If we don't do the research, we can't do it.

I ask everybody to support this all-of-the-above policy plan and  support my amendment.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.