Halt All Lethal Trafficking of Fentanyl Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692345/halt-all-lethal-trafficking-of-fentanyl-act


Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 489, I call  up the bill (S. 331) to amend the Controlled Substances Act with  respect to the scheduling of fentanyl-related substances, and for other  purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. GRIFFITH.  331.

Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, most Members in this Chamber know someone  who has been affected by the drug overdose epidemic plaguing our  country. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,  in 2023, there were more than 107,000 overdose deaths that occurred in  the United States. These staggering numbers are due in large part to  the increasing presence of fentanyl and fentanyl analogues which are  approximately 100 times more potent than morphine and 50 times more  potent than heroin. The lethal dose of fentanyl is just 2 milligrams or  about four grains of sand.

A loophole that the cartels have tried to use to traffic their  illicit fentanyl into our country is by changing one part of fentanyl's  chemical structure to create fentanyl analogues. The cartels did this  in an attempt to evade our criminal laws.

Right now, fentanyl analogues are considered schedule I substances,  but only because of a series of temporary scheduling orders, and that  order is now set to expire on September 30 of this year.

That is why the HALT Fentanyl Act, led by myself and my friend, the  gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Latta) in this House and then Senators Cassidy  and Heinrich in the Senate, is critically needed.

This bill aims to curb overdose deaths by permanently scheduling  fentanyl analogues as schedule I substances, Mr. Speaker. This will  strengthen law enforcement's ability to prosecute fentanyl traffickers  and act as a deterrent.

The HALT Fentanyl Act promotes research by improving the registration  process so eligible individuals can conduct studies on schedule I  substances  with the appropriate safeguards. In the Energy and Commerce Committee,  we have heard there may be as many as 4,800 analogues. My understanding  is that experts at NIH and FDA and other agencies have studied roughly  30 of those 4,800 analogues.

By encouraging research of schedule I substances like fentanyl  analogues, we can better understand how these substances work and how  we can prevent potentially harmful impacts in the future. The temporary  bans, Mr. Speaker, did not deal with the research component. So without  this bill, we cannot legally do the research on the analogues that may,  someday, be found to have medical benefits.

Because fentanyl itself has a proven medical use, it is considered a  schedule II drug, but illicit derivatives of fentanyl, also called  fentanyl analogues, currently have no demonstrated medical value.

Let me be clear. This bill will have no impact whatsoever on a  physician's ability to administer fentanyl in medical settings. The  HALT Fentanyl Act deals specifically with analogues, not medicinal  fentanyl.

We must address this bipartisan issue immediately and not allow this  temporary extension to expire in September.

Once fentanyl analogues are permanently placed into schedule I,  Congress will continue to build off this work to continue to address  the illicit fentanyl crisis in our country.

According to a 2021 GAO report, there was a 90 percent decrease in  these analogues coming into our country the year they were placed  temporarily into schedule I.

This bill is a critical step in combating the opioid crisis in our  country because China and Mexico are heavily involved in this business.  China sends the precursors of fentanyl and fentanyl analogues, the API,  or active pharmaceutical ingredients, to the cartels in Mexico who are  then making the drugs and bringing them across our borders.

By making these analogues permanently schedule I, it removes the  incentive to traffic these drugs into our country due to the penalties  if they are caught.

China has even realized the risk of analogues themselves and has  permanently scheduled these analogues on their strictest schedule.  Other countries have followed suit and done the same.

This bill received bipartisan support on the House floor with a vote  of 312-108 in February. The bill has the support of many law  enforcement agencies and other entities calling for the need to pass  the bill.

With passage of this version of the bill, it will be sent to the  President's desk. I am hopeful the President will sign this bill into  law quickly so that we can continue to combat this crisis and begin  research in earnest to see if there is any benefit from any of the  analogues that may help people who are afflicted having been addicted  by accident or on purpose to fentanyl.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support S.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I now yield 2 minutes to the gentleman  from Georgia (Mr. Carter), the chairman of the Health Subcommittee.

Mr. GRIFFITH.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, as the gentleman said, this is an identical bill to the  one that passed out of the House with the exception of a few technical  changes the Senate made, including sticking their number on it instead  of the House number. Other than that, it is essentially the same bill  this House passed and, frankly, with bipartisan support.

I understand the gentleman's objections related to mandatory minimum  sentences, but that is a different bill and a different day. That is  not what this bill is about. This bill is about making fentanyl  analogues a schedule I or making all of them schedule I substances.

The gentleman referenced that there is no off-ramp. I would suggest  to him that the off-ramp is in the eye of the beholder.

What we did in this bill, and I think it is something that everybody  on the floor can be proud of, we put into this bill the capability to  do extensive research by universities, the NIH, and the FDA. We created  a framework to do research on the 4,800 believed analogues of fentanyl.

I believe it has two advantages. One, if we find one of these  analogues that has no harm and even has a positive effect for some  issue, that creates your off-ramp. There is already an off-ramp in the  law for drugs that show promise and have a medicinal benefit. That  opens up other statutes. This one doesn't have that off-ramp, but other  statutes do that would allow if somebody comes in and says, wow, look  at what this does. It does good things in the X area or the Y area or  whatever. This bill has the component parts to make that possible.  Unlike our schedule I on marijuana, which never allowed research or  realistic research and created some of the dilemmas that we have today  with that substance. We fixed that with this bill.

Secondly, that research component, I believe if there is any benefit  in the analogues at all, it may be that one of the analogues--I am not  saying it will and I think the odds are slim, but it is possible that  one of the analogues will have a blocking effect on the deadly aspects  of fentanyl itself, and that would be a huge positive.

When my colleague says that it has nothing on dealing with the  problem as far as people who have an addiction, he is right. It does  not today, but that research component has great potential for the  future.

In the short run, we stop the Chinese from bringing the precursors to  Mexico and the Mexican cartels creating new analogues and trying to get  around our laws by claiming it is not really fentanyl, it is an analog.  We stop those attempts by the bad guys, the illegal people trying to  bring this into our country and bringing it in, unfortunately,  successfully. We stop it. We stop them using that technique to get  around the law. Then we leave the door open for positive future  benefits, if any, in the analogues.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have helped draft this legislation. I am  proud to have drafted the part on the research component. I am proud  that, notwithstanding the fact that they made a few tweaks and sent  back a Senate bill rather than sending back mine and Mr. Latta's  original House bill, I am proud to stand here today in support of the  HALT Fentanyl Act.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues in this House to vote  ``yes'' and let's send it to the President's desk. Let's make this a  permanent law in the United States.

As Chairman Guthrie said: It is not going to solve every problem, but  it makes our kids just a little bit safer.