Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 161, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 35) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to ``Waste  Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for  Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions,'' and ask  for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. GRIFFITH.  Res. 35.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.J. Res. 35, a  resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of  title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental  Protection Agency relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum  and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance,  Including Netting and Exemptions,'' sponsored by the gentleman from  Texas (Mr. Pfluger).

H.J. Res. 35 will repeal the disastrous rule by the Biden  administration that punishes our small and midsize energy producers  here in the United States. The so-called waste emissions charge starts  at $900 per metric ton for last year's reported methane emissions. It  increases to $1,200 per metric ton for 2025 emissions, and it increases  one more time to $1,500 per metric ton of emissions for 2026 and the  years thereafter.

There are about 9,000 small and midsize independent petroleum  drillers in the United States. These mostly small operations are  responsible for developing 91 percent of oil and gas wells, producing  83 percent of America's oil and 90 percent of our country's natural  gas. We should be thanking them, not punishing them.

Mr. Speaker, if we do not act, American jobs and energy production  will be lost. This is really, for all intents and purposes, a punitive  tax on natural gas. These folks are not our enemy. They help make the  fuel that we use to heat our homes, et cetera.

Mr. Speaker, I and other Republicans are not opposed to the  regulation of methane. I see it as an asset that should not be wasted  when it is practicably able to be captured, but there are cases where  it is not practicable. However, we are opposed to bureaucratic  overreach that, intended or not, will force some of these small  producers out of business, making the energy supply in the United  States less.

We should instead be making rules that work with industry to  facilitate the progress that our country's energy producers have  already made in reducing emissions.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, parliamentary inquiry.

Mr. GRIFFITH. When debating this resolution, H.J. Res. 35, is it  appropriate to discuss superfluous matters to the matter at hand  currently on the floor?

Mr. GRIFFITH. Thank you, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, let me be clear: I meant no offense and no  criticism. As the gentleman from the other side of the aisle and from  New Jersey knows, I love parliamentary procedure. One of the reasons  that we have parliamentary procedures and rules of parliamentary  procedures is to make the place more efficient.

We are talking about H.J. Res. 35 today. We are not talking about  every other ill that anybody might think is going on. The focus today  in this debate period is H.J. Res. 35.

That is my only point. I meant no criticism of Mr. Tonko or the  Democrats in this matter. Just trying to get us on track with  parliamentary procedure.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter of  support for H.J. Res. 35 from the United States Chamber of Commerce, a  letter from the National Federation of Independent Businesses, and  last, but not least, a letter from the American Petroleum Institute.                                                 February 24, 2025.

To the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives: The       U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports the Congressional Review       Act resolution of disapproval aimed at overturning the       Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Waste Emissions       Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for       Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions       rulemaking. Disapproving this rulemaking would help give       consumers access to affordable energy to heat their homes and       businesses to power manufacturing.

Disapproving EPA's natural gas tax rulemaking is expected       to reduce energy costs for consumers, making heating,       cooking, and electricity more affordable for households. For       manufacturers, it lowers operating expenses, enabling greater       investment in production and job creation, which in turn       stimulates economic growth and strengthens the overall       economy. Disapproving this tax will also provide relief to       small businesses and industries so they can allocate more       resources toward growth, innovation, and workforce expansion.

This natural gas tax threatens to increase costs to       consumers and businesses and undermines economic       competitiveness. We urge Congress to act swiftly in passing       this resolution of disapproval.            Sincerely,                                                Neil L. Bradley,

Executive Vice President, Chief Policy Officer, and Head of                                                 Strategic Advocacy,      U.S. Chamber of Commerce.                                   ____                                                             NFIB,                                  Washington, DC, February 25, 2025.

Dear Representative: On behalf of NFIB, the nation's       leading small business advocacy organization, I write in       support of H.J. Res. 35, the Congressional Review Act (CRA)       resolution to repeal the Environmental Protection Agency's       (EPA) rule establishing a methane fee for oil and natural gas       production, processing, transmission, and storage. This fee       will increase costs for energy producers, which will be       passed on to families and small businesses. A vote in favor       of H.J. Res. 35, will be considered an NFIB Key Vote for the       119th Congress.

In a recent ballot, more than 88 percent of small business       owners support streamlining regulations to facilitate the       production and transport of oil, natural gas, and other       energy sources in the United States. Small business owners       also report the cost of electricity, natural gas, gasoline,       and diesel fuel, as top 10 problems when asked to assess       their top 75 issues.

The EPA's methane fee would apply to oil and gas facilities       that report annual methane emissions above a certain       threshold. In 2024, a $900 fee per metric ton of methane       would kick in above the threshold. By 2026, the fee will       increase to $1,500 per metric ton. This fee will increase the       cost of energy production which will be passed on to the       consumer in the form of higher energy costs. In its rule, the       EPA acknowledged that this regulation would increase the       price of gasoline and decrease gas production.

Small businesses want affordable, abundant, and reliable       energy. NFIB strongly supports H.J. Res. 35 and will consider       support for H.J. Res. 35 a Key Vote for the 119th Congress.            Sincerely,                                                    Adam Temple,                                 Senior Vice President for Advocacy,      NFIB.                                   ____                                     American Petroleum Institute,                                  Washington, DC, February 26, 2025.      Hon. Brett Guthrie,      Chair, House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Washington,           DC.      Hon. Frank Pallone,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Energy and Commerce,           Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Guthrie and Ranking Member Pallone: The       American Petroleum Institute (API) writes in support of H.J.       Res. 35, Providing for congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)       relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and       Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance,       Including Netting and Exemptions'' (the WEC rule).

The WEC rule is a duplicative layer of red tape that       creates a punitive tax on American energy, stifling       innovation and hampering the industry's ability to produce       the energy that American consumers and allies abroad rely on,       and we appreciate your committee's leadership in repealing       this harmful policy.

Methane emissions from the oil and gas sector are already       regulated by EPA under the new and existing source rule,       which prescribes extensive requirements for industry. At the       same time, industry is voluntarily doing more to continue       reducing our emissions, and those efforts are working. Thanks       to innovation and industry actions, methane emissions fell by       42 percent between 2015 and 2023 according to the EPA, even       as production increased by 51 percent to meet demand.

Operators have taken significant voluntary steps to       identify and implement cleaner engineering technology       solutions within their operations and facility designs. For       example, since 2018, members of The Environmental       Partnership, a voluntary industry initiative administered by       API and whose members represent nearly 70 percent of U.S.       onshore oil and gas production, have removed or replaced more       than 180,000 gas-driven pneumatics, resulting in the       permanent reduction of an estimated 355,421 metric tonnes of       CH4 per year released into the atmosphere based on 2023 EPA       reporting. Operators are also implementing vapor recovery       units to capture methane emissions from higher-emitting       equipment like tanks and compressors. In addition to       traditional ground-based monitoring approaches using optical       gas imaging (OGI) technologies, companies are also       implementing the use of laser absorption spectroscopy and       sensors technologies on the surface, in the sky and in space       to improve leak detection efforts and further reduce       emissions.

In addition to the duplicative nature of the fee, API also       contends that the Biden Administration failed to implement it       consistent with congressional intent for several key reasons:

The Inflation Reduction Act allowed for an exemption from       the fee if (1) the final EPA rule addressing methane       emissions is in effect; and (2) as determined by the       Administrator, the given state rule will result in greater       emission reductions than would have been achieved by the       proposed rule entitled ``Standards of Performance for New,       Reconstructed, and Modified Sources and Emissions Guidelines       for Existing Sources: Oil and Natural Gas Sector Climate       Review'' (86 Fed. Reg. 63110 (November 15, 2021)) had that       rule been finalized and implemented. Those conditions have       been met, but the compliance exemption is still not as       broadly available as Congress intended. The availability of       the exemption should not have been delayed until all 50       states have fully implemented the requirements.

The WEC rule also disqualifies sites from using the       compliance exemption if they have a deviation. Sites should       not be disqualified from using the compliance exemption       unless and until a violation (not a deviation) is proven       through adjudication or admitted by the owner/operator of the       site, and disqualification should be limited specifically to       the emissions resulting from the adjudicated violation.

The final rule allows netting at the parent company level,       but owners/operators who have made substantial investments to       mitigate emissions in advance of any regulatory requirement       are not currently able to include those facilities that now       fall below the Subpart W reporting threshold in netting       calculations.

The WEC rule requires combustion emissions to be reported       under Subpart W and subject to fees, instead of under Subpart       C, consistent with other industries and congressional intent       around the netting provisions.

Repealing this misguided rule is an important first step       towards providing industry with relief from one of the       previous Administration's anti-energy policies, and we       appreciate your work to advance a pro-consumer regulatory       environment that embraces U.S. energy.

We urge Congress to pass H.J. Res. 35 to repeal the WEC       rule, and API and its members stand ready to work together       with your committee to follow this with full repeal of the       underlying statutory mandate in Section 136(c)-(g) of the       Clean Air Act.            Sincerely,                                                Amanda E. Eversole.

It is interesting. I heard some speakers--and everybody is just  trying to talk about these issues from their viewpoint. I get it.  However, I heard some speakers on the other side of the aisle say today  that we are just catering to Big Oil and others.

Then I hear there were discussions with larger folks, and those are  the people who are okay with it. I hear from Representatives from  places like Alaska, North Dakota, and Texas whose constituents  oftentimes are small mom-and-pop operations. It is hard to think of oil  and natural gas that way, but that is the way it is in those regions.  They say this will, in fact, hurt them and this is disastrous.

I suspect, Mr. Speaker, the reason that we have this dichotomy, this  difference, is that a lot of times bigger institutions, bigger  organizations, can afford to take on a new regulation. It will cost  them a little bit of money. It will make the cost of production go up a  little bit, but because they are large, they can spread that out over a  lot of different items or a lot of different--I guess, in this case, it  would be oil and gas measured in cubic feet, or whatever the  measurement is these days. As a result, they can say this is a cost  spread out over a large piece of the pie so it is not that big of a  deal to us.

As I said in my opening, there are 9,000 small and midsize  independent petroleum drillers in the United States. These, mostly  small, operations are responsible for developing 91 percent of oil and  gas wells, producing 83 percent of America's oil, and 90 percent of our  country's natural gas.

Those are the folks who are most upset about these regulations and  why we need to repeal them. We are going to break the back of those  9,000 small and midsize independent petroleum drillers who are  providing us with affordable gas, affordable heat for our homes through  natural gas, and affordable products made out of natural gas and  petroleum.

Mr. Speaker, it is the right thing to do, and I encourage all  Members, both Democrat, Republican, and any who may think of themselves  as independent, to vote ``yes'' on H.J. Res. 35.