Providing for Consideration of H.R. Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; and for Other Purposes


Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 672 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 672

Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this       resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule       XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the       Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of       the bill (H.R. 4553) making appropriations for energy and       water development and related agencies for the fiscal year       ending September 30, 2026, and for other purposes. The first       reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of       order against consideration of the bill are waived. General       debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one       hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their       respective designees. After general debate the bill shall be       considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill       shall be considered as read. Points of order against       provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 or       clause 5(a) of rule XXI are waived.

Sec. 2. (a) No amendment to H.R. 4553 shall be in order       except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules       accompanying this resolution, amendments en bloc described in       section 3 of this resolution, and pro forma amendments       described in section 4 of this resolution.

(b) Each amendment printed in the report of the Committee       on Rules shall be considered only in the order printed in the       report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the       report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for       the time specified in the report equally divided and       controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be       subject to amendment except as provided by section 4 of this       resolution, and shall not be subject to a demand for division       of the question in the House or in the Committee of the       Whole.

(c) All points of order against amendments printed in the       report of the Committee on Rules or against amendments en       bloc described in section 3 of this resolution are waived.

Sec. 3. It shall be in order at any time for the chair of       the Committee on Appropriations or his designee to offer       amendments en bloc consisting of amendments printed in the       report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution       not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant       to this section shall be considered as read, shall be       debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by       the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Appropriations or their respective designees, shall not be       subject to amendment except as provided by section 4 of this       resolution, and shall not be subject to a demand for division       of the question in the House or in the Committee of the       Whole.

Sec. 4. During consideration of H.R. 4553 for amendment,       the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Appropriations or their respective designees may offer up to       10 pro forma amendments each at any point for the purpose of       debate.

Sec. 5. At the conclusion of consideration of H.R. 4553 for       amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the       House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill       and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except one motion to recommit.

Sec. 6. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House any joint resolution specified       in section 7 of this resolution. All points of order against       consideration of each such joint resolution are waived. Each       such joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points       of order against provisions in each such joint resolution are       waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered       on each such joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to       final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour       of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources       or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 7. The joint resolutions referred to in section 6 of       this resolution are as follows:         (a) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 104) providing for       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land       Management relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of       Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''.

(b) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 105) providing for       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land       Management relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of       Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''.

(c) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 106) providing for       congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to       ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource       Management Plan''.

Sec. 8. House Resolution 668 is hereby adopted.

Sec. 9. House Resolution 605 is hereby adopted.

Sec. 10. House Resolution 598 is laid on the table.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, for the purposes of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.

During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. Speaker, the Rules Committee met last night and reported out a  rule providing for consideration of four measures.

Those measures are H.R. 4553, the Energy and Water Development and  Related Agencies Appropriations Act; H.J. Res. 104, providing for  congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States  Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Land Management related to  ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource  Management Plan Amendment''; H.J. Res. 105, providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ``North Dakota  Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management  Plan''; and H.J. Res. 106, providing for congressional disapproval  under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted  by the Bureau of Land Management relating to ``Central Yukon Record of  Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan.''

House Resolution 672 provides for consideration of H.R. 4553, the  Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act  under a structured rule, making in order 36 amendments.

The rule provides for 1 hour of general debate equally divided and  controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on  Appropriations or their respective designees and provides for one  motion to recommit.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.J. Res. 104, H.J.  Res. 105, and H.J. Res. 106, all under closed rules, with 1 hour of  general debate each equally divided and controlled by the chair and  ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources and  provides each one motion to recommit.

Finally, the rule provides that H. Res. 668 and H. Res. 605 are  hereby adopted and House Res. 598 is laid on the table.

Today's rule, House Resolution 672, allows for debate on several  measures including H.R. 4553, the Energy and Water Development and  Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2026.

This appropriations bill funds many programs at the center of helping  to assert our country's energy dominance. The bill cuts $766.4 million,  when compared to last year's funding bill, by focusing our efforts on  energy innovation and water infrastructure.

This appropriations bill provides funding to numerous scientific  energy endeavors from nuclear fusion research, small modular reactors,  nuclear fuel production, electric transmission system enhancements,  energy storage, and traditional fossil fuel research.

At a time when energy demand from data centers and new manufacturing  is increasing, these research efforts will greatly contribute to  meeting the new normal. Our example is the increase of funding for  nuclear energy projects, which will make more advanced nuclear fuel  available and accelerate small modular and advanced reactor testing.  The Department is also essential to our national security.

This appropriations bill has over $20 billion in funds for the  management of our nuclear weapons stockpile and over $2 billion for our  nuclear Navy.

This bill also funds numerous Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of  Reclamation projects to provide dredging to maintain navigable ports  and rivers and water storage projects to increase the water supply in  drought-ridden sections of our country, as well as helping to forestall  flooding in areas from coastal regions to mountainous valley regions  such as the area I represent.

The rule also provides for debate on H.J. Res. 104, H.J. Res. 105,  and H.J. Res. 106, all of which are Congressional Review Act  Resolutions of Disapproval.

These resolutions overturn the Biden administration's Bureau of Land  Management plans that were aimed at restricting gold mining and oil and  gas drilling on Federal lands.

H.J. Res. 104, sponsored by Congressman Downing of Montana, overturns  the Montana Resource Management Plan, which would prohibit new coal  mining on about 2.75 million acres of Federal land in Montana. This  Bureau of Land Management rule would stop an estimated 30 percent of  our country's coal reserves from being mined, even as electricity  demand is increasing in the United States for the first time in over 10  years.

H.J. Res. 105, sponsored by my Energy and Commerce colleague,  Congresswoman Fedorchak, would overturn a similar Bureau of Land  Management Resource Management Plan for North Dakota. Under this Biden- Harris administration rule, 4 million acres of Federal land in North  Dakota would not be available for coal mining or oil and gas  extraction.

Additionally, the rule allows for debate on H.J. Res. 106, sponsored  by Congressman Nick Begich of Alaska, which would nullify the Central  Yukon Resource Management Plan. Under this rule, which affects 13.3  million acres of Federal land in Alaska, millions of acres would be  barred from energy development.

Disallowing energy development on these lands will also hamstring  efforts to get more American liquid natural gas onto the international  market and improve our country's standing as the leading energy  producer in the world.

We will also be considering a resolution that would direct the House  Oversight Committee to continue their investigation into the Jeffrey  Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell files.

The Committee has already undertaken important steps in their  investigation into Jeffrey Epstein. Just this week, the committee met  with the victims of Jeffrey Epstein. They have already issued subpoenas  to the Department of Justice related to the Epstein records.

Further, they have already received over 33,000 documents from the  Department of Justice with more on the way. Those 33,000 documents, Mr.  Speaker, were released last night to the public.

The committee already has transcribed interviews scheduled and have  other subpoenas out, as well. They are also doing this work in a  bipartisan manner, and we must give them all the tools necessary to  continue this important investigation.

This resolution will bring transparency into all the documents and  records related to Jeffrey Epstein, Ghislaine Maxwell, flight logs, any  individuals referenced in connection to Epstein, any entities with ties  to Epstein, any agency internal documents, documents related to  Epstein's detention and death, and other areas.

Mr. Speaker, there are strings attached to this resolution, as well,  to ensure that we have full transparency, such as requiring written  justification requirements for certain documents that are redacted,  unless they fall under certain sensitive categories.

This is a critical step forward in providing transparency into the  Epstein files and will give the public all the necessary information.

This vote will show the American people we are committed to full  transparency and cooperation when it comes to Jeffrey Epstein and the  investigation thereof.

Lastly, this rule is standing up a new select committee to continue  investigation of the events surrounding January 6. They will bring more  transparency and continue to investigate  what happened that day so the American public is aware of the facts  involved.

I believe this new subcommittee is another critical step forward to  bringing more transparency to everyone about the events and details  surrounding that day. I hope Members of this House support the passage  of the rule and the underlying bills and resolutions.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I believe that would apply to Members of  Congress being called names, would it not.

Mr. Speaker, it is so fascinating how facts don't seem to matter  sometimes on the floor. The only administration that has ever released  anything on the Epstein files is the Trump administration. Last night,  the House Oversight and Reform Committee released over 33,000 files.  Now they say that 97 percent of it had already been released, 33,000  files. That is a lot of files.

Let's take that 97 percent and say that it is accurate for argument  and for argument only.

That means that of 33,000 files, 3 percent of that is new. In fact,  Mr. Speaker, I will tell you, as I was going through clips this  morning, I noticed one conservative news source that said: Eureka, the  missing minute surrounding Epstein's death is in the material that has  been released.

There has been a lot of controversy about that. A lot of people want  to know about it, and there it is.

More and more information is coming out, and it is coming out because  of the Trump administration and because of the House Oversight and  Reform Committee.

However, somehow if we don't adhere to the exact demands of my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle, then we are not doing it  right. I submit to you,  Mr. Speaker, that the House Oversight and Reform Committee is doing it  right. They are going through it.

As I pointed out in my opening, Mr. Speaker, if they decide to use  one of the limited areas that they could do a redaction, then they have  to explain why. If the administration doesn't turn over some  information, if they redact information before sending it to the House,  then they have to explain why.

Of course, some of the information that you want to protect, Mr.  Speaker, is information related to victims that has not yet been in the  press.

Why would we want to take young women who were victims of Epstein and  his colleagues and who don't want to have their name in the press, why  would we suddenly expose them to that?

Of course, we don't want to do that, so there has to be some limited  areas where redactions have to occur, but all of that has to be  explained.

Then they bring up the President's comments this morning about a  hoax. They are trying to mislead, in my opinion, some are trying to  mislead the American people into thinking that the President said that  Epstein and the investigation was a hoax. It is not what he said.

Mr. Speaker, if you look at what he said, it was the controversy over  the Epstein files that was a hoax because they have been releasing more  data than any other administration.

I say that because the Biden administration had all this information,  and they didn't release it. They had 4 years. They could have released  it all. They didn't choose to do it, and now my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle somehow want to claim that it is a conspiracy by  Trump to hide information that was in the hands of their party's  President and their party's Department of Justice. It was in their  hands, and they didn't release it, but somehow it is our fault. Mr.  Speaker, it is the Republicans' fault that the Biden administration  didn't do what they now claim that the Trump administration should be  doing.

It is hard to understand that logic, but somehow we are at fault, Mr.  Speaker, for them not doing the job that they think we should have made  their President do.

It is fascinating. It is absolutely fascinating.

Then, of course, we get to all the consternation about this January  6th Committee. This is an outgrowth of an investigation that started as  a part of the House Administration Committee.

I served on the subcommittee that was doing that investigation. It is  really interesting. That group, and I was a part of it, found that  there was more than one terabyte of missing data. Based on the  inventory of the digest and statements from Chairman Thompson, there  should have been four terabytes turned over, and there were only three.  That is equivalent to 6.5 million document pages as PDFs or office  files, 500 hours of high-definition video, or 250,000 photos. The  depositions were not filed properly or they weren't filed at all and  archived as they are supposed to be, and as the rule that set up the  prior committee said, they were supposed to be there.

I can assure you, Mr. Speaker, that as a former member of this  preceding group, we are just trying to get the data that is missing. We  are trying to make sure we put all the information on the table. We  want the files released that were out there. We want to find that  missing terabyte of information. Some of it has been recovered, but not  all of it, and that work needs to be continued.

Further, the House Administration subcommittee didn't have the power  to subpoena records. I would submit that it is necessary just to get  all the information out.

As I said last night to my colleagues, as a person who loves history  and has a history degree, I need to get all the documents on the table,  the good, the bad, and the ugly, and let history determine what  occurred on that day.

There is no point in trying to hide it. I don't understand why my  colleagues on the other side want to hide a terabyte. A fourth of what  the prior committee did was never properly turned over to the House.  That information belongs to the House and to the people of the United  States. It does not belong hidden somewhere in a drawer or destroyed.

Unfortunately, because of that lack of turning over the records in a  proper manner to the House, we have to continue the work that was not  done by the previous Democrat-controlled--I know they had two  Republicans on it, but they weren't the Members picked by the House  Republicans, and it wasn't in the numbers usually allocated or  originally called for, for a select committee.

We are going to do it right, and we are going to put the information  on the table. We are going to let the American people make a judgment  now, and let the historians argue over what happened on that day as  time moves forward.

Let me state up front that I make no apology for being pro-U.S.  energy. I make no apology for saying that the United States needs more  electric power. I make no apology for saying we can get that electric  power with things like these bills that are in this rule today. It  works on small modular reactors. It works on nuclear. It works on  fusion. It works on coal. It works on making sure that we have the  ability to mine the coal in the United States. It makes sure we have  the ability to extract our oil and our natural gas resources.

If we want to compete with the Chinese, Mr. Speaker, we are going to  have to up our game on producing electric power. It is fascinating to  me that when we hear these debates, my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle will often point out--in fact, they did it last night--that  the Chinese are doing so much more with wind and solar. They never  mention that the Chinese are building dozens of new power plants, as we  speak, powered by coal.

If we are going to use the Chinese as the model that we are supposed  to follow in generating electricity, we should, therefore, not be  closing down all of our coal power plants.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, the coal in the United States and the way  that we burn it is much cleaner than the way the Chinese burn it in  their plants. We need to be working on making sure that we have new  energy development, which the energy and water bill does, and ways that  we can burn that coal and our natural gas even cleaner than we are  doing today, even though we produce electricity cleaner with our fossil  fuels than any other country in the world.

Guess what we can do, Mr. Speaker. If we can continue to move forward  and build new plants and show how this new technology can be used, we  can then be the ones who are exporting it to sub-Saharan Africa and  India instead of having the Chinese exporting facilities and the  technologies that are from the 1960s and 1970s, instead of the  technologies that are available today.

When you talk about the air on the planet Earth, Mr. Speaker, I have  to tell you that the air is shared by all of us. In fact, there is a  NASA study that I often cite that says it takes air 10 days to get from  the middle of the Gobi Desert to the eastern shore of Virginia. That is  why a majority of the mercury in California comes from Asia and not  from the plants in California. It comes from overseas.

Mr. Speaker, the more that we can do with our fossil fuel plants and  our technologies to make our processes cleaner and then export it to  the rest of the world, the more we can do to clean up the air in the  world as a whole because the air is not something that uniquely belongs  to the United States. It doesn't sit over one town very long. Sometimes  we get a little inversion in the Roanoke area and it sits there for a  few days, but it doesn't sit there for weeks and months and years. We  need to be looking at the worldwide issue in regard to that.

Mr. Speaker, I make no apology for supporting bills that will take  care of making sure that we can, in this Nation, as a nation, all of  us, profit and have the AI needed and have the electricity needed for  data centers instead of giving it and ceding it to the Chinese because  we don't want to work on oil, natural gas, and coal because somehow my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle have decided that those  resources are not appropriate to be used in the United States.

If we want to be a second-rate country, have at it, but that is not  what I stand for, Mr. Speaker. I stand for us being the leading energy  producer in the world and making sure that we do it as clean as  possible so that we can export our clean coal technology, our clean  natural gas facilities, new fusion if we can get there, new modular  reactors, and export that technology to the world and be the leader in  the world when it comes to energy production; but, number one, making  sure that we take care of our needs in the United States as we are  looking at not having enough electricity going forward to keep our  economy as the number one economy in the world.

Mr. Speaker, I often tell people back home that this is important not  just for today but for the generations to come because when you look at  the powers in the economic sphere in the past, some very small nations  have reached into the future and benefited their children,  grandchildren, and great-grandchildren.

In fact, I often talk about Royal Dutch Shell Group, Shell Oil, which  was a derivative. Mr. Speaker, you can attack how they got the money  because it was all part of colonialism, and I get that. Yet, because  they were the number one economic nation in the world from roughly 1650  to 1700, there are still people and families in the Netherlands who are  benefiting. Notwithstanding the fact that they moved their headquarters  to London, they are benefiting from the fact that, at one time, their  nation was the number one economic nation in the world.

I want that for the United States. I want us to be the number one  economic nation as long as possible so that children and grandchildren  and great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren out 10  generations will benefit.

Mr. Speaker, I make no apologies for supporting these bills that we  have in this rule today and supporting the fact that American energy is  predominant and should remain a major force in the world instead of  ceding everything to the Chinese.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, this Epstein situation is very serious,  and I take it as such. We have victims whose lives can never be made  whole, and this debate has taken on a life of its own. In many ways, it  is illogical.

On the one hand, we have the resolution included in the rule that has  subpoena power and has broader authority than the Massie-Khanna piece  of legislation that my colleagues on the other side want. It gives us  the ability to subpoena banking records, estate files, and depositions,  none of which are required in the Massie bill.

Further, I find it interesting, because ours is a resolution that  gives the endorsement of the House, gives more power in the oomph  behind the Oversight and Government Reform Committee's hard work.

The opposing piece of legislation, Mr. Speaker, should it pass the  House, goes over to the Senate. Should it pass the Senate, it requires  the signature of the very President who they say wants to block it.

I submit to you, Mr. Speaker, and to the American people, it would  only be logical to go with the one that can get voted on in the House  and have action going forward and have action taking place that deals  with these serious issues and brings to light every piece of  information that we can put on the table with the rare exceptions of a  few redactions, which have to be explained and some of which are  necessary to protect some of the victims themselves because they don't  want to have their names out there in the public.

Mr. Speaker, I don't understand it. If what we want is the  information, we should pass this rule and move forward, and not have to  rely on passage in the Senate and signature by the President.

Mr. Speaker, in regard to energy, I can tell you that I represent a  region of the country where when we were using our coal resources,  which God has blessed us with abundantly, we had the third or fourth  lowest electric rates in the country.

Then suddenly fossil fuels became a bad idea. Even natural gas, oh,  my gosh, we can't use it, and the electric rates keep going up and up  and up. My district is not a wealthy district, and the people in my  district are complaining because their electricity rates are going up.

One of the major drivers are prior Democratic policies, Mr. Speaker,  that said we are not going to be doing any more coal-fired power  plants. We are not going to encourage natural gas to be used to create  electricity, and we stranded the assets.

Now, as you know, Mr. Speaker, what that means is that they are  paying for the electricity generated by wind and solar, and they are  paying for the electricity that was there for plants that were opened  which have not met their full expectation or life cycle.

For example, there is a facility in my district that I went to the  ribbon cutting on in 2012 that Democrats in the Commonwealth of  Virginia, including some of my esteemed colleagues on the other side  from that great Commonwealth, thought it was appropriate to say: Let's  close that down early.

It opened in 2012 with a 50-to-60 year life expectancy, and they  wanted to close it down somewhere around 2035 or 2040, well before its  life expectancy is up. What that does is that pushes the power  companies to have to find different and more expensive ways, as it  turns out, to create that electricity.

What this bill does is, it pushes us on nuclear, which if you don't  want to use fossil, that is the only way you can get the baseload power  to supply us and make us competitive with the Chinese in the field of  AI. Yet, somehow, once again my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle cannot realize that it is the policies of their prior Congresses  and their prior administrations which, in large measure--not  exclusively, but in large measure have caused the spike--not a general  increase, not inflation level, but a spike over and above your general  inflation--on the cost of energy in this country.

If we get back to the basics, if we pass this rule--we have three  CRAs and the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies  Appropriation Act, all of which help make the United States of America  more viable when it comes to energy and makes those electric prices  that my colleagues said was one of the bigger concerns that she heard  when touring around the Commonwealth--the cost of those energy prices  will go down if we pass this rule and pass the underlying bills. I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I am.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, this rule covers a number of topics, and  we have been over them--energy, water. We didn't get much into the full  funding of the Army Corps so they can help take care of flooding  problems in my district and other districts, take care of water  problems, et cetera.

We have argued for over an hour, most of it being the same repetitive  things. This rule gives that extra oomph. It shows the support for the  work that the Oversight Committee is doing regarding the Epstein files.  It moves us forward on energy and water. It moves us forward on energy  production in the United States. It moves us forward on nuclear power  and making sure that we are using it in a responsible but effective way  so that we can continue to be the world's leader when it comes to  energy production, instead of handcuffing our capabilities.

We have gone over a lot of serious issues. The American people who  are paying attention to this have already heard all of those arguments.

Mr. Speaker, I will simply say that I hope that all the Members of  this House will support the passage of this rule. It is important for a  number of reasons, and I hope they will pass the underlying bills and  resolutions when those come up.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment To H. Res. 672 Offered By Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 11. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 4405) to require the Attorney General to release       all documents and records in possession of the Department of       Justice relating to Jeffrey Epstein, and for other purposes.       All points of order against consideration of the bill are       waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of       order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; and       (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 12. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 4405.