Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low Nox Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 354, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 89) providing congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to  ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine  Pollution Control Standards; The `Omnibus' Low NOX  Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision'', and ask for its  immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. GRIFFITH.  Res. 89.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, today, I rise in strong support of H.J. Res. 89, a  resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of  title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental  Protection Agency relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and  Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; The `Omnibus'  Low NOX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of  Decision,'' sponsored by the gentleman from California.

The gentleman from California's resolution would repeal the EPA  decision to grant a waiver to the California Air Resources Board rule  on heavy-duty engine emissions of nitrogen oxides, or NOX.

I think it is interesting to point out here because the gentleman  from California (Mr. Kiley) pointed out in the debate on the previous  two bills that these rules were approved by a nonelected body in  Washington, D.C., for a waiver to a nonelected body in the State of  California, so it is interesting that this is a waiver granted not to  the legislature even of California but to the California Air Resources  Board.

This standard, believe it or not, of the three California regulations  we are discussing today, has probably the toughest timeline of  compliance.

Now, Madam Speaker, you had to pay close attention because at first I  thought my team had made an error. This rule would require a 75 percent  NOX reduction beginning with model year 2024.

Now, you say: Wait, how can that be? This is 2025.

Well, that is a good question, and a lot of people are asking that  question, and manufacturers are having to think maybe we have got to do  something to be ready for retroactive action.

Now, if we were passing something, I am not sure we could do it  retroactive in this nature. Maybe we could. Now we are going to have  unelected bureaucrats on top of unelected bureaucrats affecting a  regulation passed originally by Congress and authorized by Congress and  now a regulation waiving a regulation on another regulation. It doesn't  seem right.

Due to the fact that the EPA had not yet granted the waiver when the  rule was made, there was already some uncertainty in the marketplace  because of concerns with that retroactive enforcement that I just  mentioned.

This rule would require--but, wait. Like the old Ronco commercials:  But wait, Madam Speaker, there is more. This rule would require a 90  percent reduction in NOX from diesel engines beginning with  model 2027 engines.

Do you think they are already getting those in production? I think  they probably are, Madam Speaker. I think they are already working on  it. Now, before it has even become the law of the land through a waiver  of a regulation on a regulation, we have a 90 percent reduction in  NOX being required. It would be a 90 percent reduction from  current Federal emissions standards in 2027. Did I say that yet? I  believe I did.

This California regulation is coming over top of Federal regulators  in an effort to truly vilify diesel engines. Some diesel engine  manufacturers will have compliance concerns, and already do, and they  may end up having to purchase NOX credits from electric  vehicle manufacturers and may have to purchase credits.

Now, that credit is a Federal credit. The emissions credit trading  system adds another layer of complexity to the compliance and shows how  difficult it can be to marry up the Federal standards with these new  California standards. It is essentially allowing some Federal credits  to be transferred to the California pool depending on vehicle sales in  California. Confusing, convoluted, and hard to follow. You bet it is.

Another burden that manufacturers will have to account for are  extended engine warranties and new testing procedures that will  inevitably have some costs that will have to be borne by fleet  operators who purchased the trucks and by consumers who will have to  pay more in freight costs for everyday goods. We have already seen  lower truck sales in California and, as expected and previously  predicted by one of our earlier speakers, increased purchase prices.

Briefly, I will address the congressional resolution of disapproval  process. We have heard a lot today about all this, and I would submit  to you that Congress under Article I should deal with repealing  regulations, particularly when that regulation has significant impact  and is as controversial as this one is.

In the end, it is the House that is covered; the EPA transmitted the  California waiver notices of decision on the regulations in February.  The notice was published in the Federal Register. The public was  allowed to request a hearing and submit materials for the record. It is  a rulemaking process on a rule and regulation, no matter what others  may choose to call it. Madam Speaker, they can call it whatever they  want to. I know what it is, and it is the waiver of a regulation by the  Federal Government in order to give power to a regulation in  California. They can call it a notice of decision. They can call it the  epizooty if they want to, call it anything they want. We all know what  it is. It is a regulation. To paraphrase Shakespeare: A rose by any  other name still smells the same.

Accordingly, I would submit to you that we have jurisdiction. I would  submit, further, Madam Speaker, that while CRAs can't be reviewed by  the courts, when this passes--and I think it will, notwithstanding  outside objectors--CRAs technically can't be reviewed by the courts.

It will be interesting to see when it gets to the Supreme Court  because I believe the Supreme Court will agree with me: Regulators can  call it whatever they want to, but when you are waiving regulations and  allowing other regulations to take their place, that is subject to the  Congressional Review Act and this process we are doing today.

I urge all Members to join me in voting in favor of the resolution of  disapproval sponsored by the gentleman from California (Mr. Obernolte),  H.J. Res. 89. Even if you are not 100 percent in agreement, you ought  to do it so that we can preserve the power of Congress because if not,  we should dissolve and let California run everything, or perhaps my  colleagues would like us to dissolve and make all decisions the subject  of the Government Accountability Office instead of the elected Members  of the United States Congress. I ask everyone to vote ``yes'' on H.J.  Res. 89.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

We keep hearing that it is not a rule and it is not a regulation and  that kind of stuff. I just ask if it is not a rule, does that mean it  is not enforceable, and does that mean it can be repealed by the next  administration with a click of the fingers? I don't know the answer to  those questions. I just raise them. If it is not official, is it even  enforceable? That is the argument that my colleagues would have you  believe.

Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman  from California (Mr. Obernolte), my colleague from the Energy and  Commerce Committee.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, this is the third of three regulations in the same  vein. We have heard today about the process. We have heard today about  the fact that California and those who opt in are still a minority of  the States and a minority of the U.S. population. Yet, they are  dictating in many ways to the rest of the country because of the  oversized import of the California economy, et cetera.

The bottom line is that my colleagues have said in the last few  minutes that this is somehow a States' rights issues. This is not a  States' rights issue. This is the creation of a superstate: California.  We have the right to override the waiver granted to them that gives  them outsized weight in relationship to vehicles. In this case, it is  the diesel vehicles. It is the trucks.

That being said, no one State should have this much power. The waiver  should not have been granted in the first place. It is a waiver of a  regulation, which makes it a regulation in effect, no matter what it is  called. It is a waiver of a regulation.

Therefore, it is something that the Federal Government should be  dictating, as you heard my colleague from California say. It should not  be granting so many waivers. We heard one of my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle say that--I forget the number of years it had been,  and I am paraphrasing--California had ratcheted up these regulations on  various things over 100 times using various waivers.

This was created in 1967. California started down this path in '66.  Congress recognized that in '67. The world is greatly different than it  was in 1967. We shouldn't be allowing California to constantly ratchet  up and then dictate to the rest of the States.

I was just a kid back in 1967, but I was alive. The world was vastly  different even inside the United States. At that time one State doing  something didn't have the impact or the ripple effect that it has today  across the country.

I think we ought to vote ``yes'' on this resolution. I strongly  encourage all my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.J. Res. 89. I think it  is the right policy for all the reasons stated throughout this entire  day.

Madam Speaker, I would say to you that if we don't want to see an  increase in the price of trucks, the price of maintenance on trucks,  the price of those trucks then carrying goods to market all over these  United States, if we do not want to see that happen, we need to pass  H.J. Res. 89 and stop this inappropriate waiver by the Biden  administration's EPA.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.