Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Do No Harm in Medicaid Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protect Children's Innocence Act; and Relating to Consideration of H.R. Standardizing Permitting and Expediting Economic Development Act


Mr. Speaker, the Rules Committee met last night and reported out a  rule providing for consideration of three measures: H.R. 6703, Lower  Healthcare Premiums for All Americans Act; H.R. 498, Do No Harm in  Medicaid Act; and H.R. 3492, Protect Children's Innocence Act.

Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 953 provides for consideration of H.R.  6703, the Lower Healthcare Premiums for All Americans Act, under a  closed rule. The rule provides 1 hour of general debate, equally  divided among and controlled by the respective chairs and ranking  minority members of the Committees on Education and the Workforce,  Energy and Commerce, and Ways and Means, or their respective designees,  and one motion to recommit.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 498, the Do No Harm  in Medicaid Act, under a closed rule with 1 hour of general debate,  equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member  of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, or their respective designees,  and provides one motion to recommit.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 3492, the Protect  Children's Innocence Act, under a structured rule with 1 hour of  general debate, equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking  minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary, or their respective  designees, and provides each one a motion to recommit.

Finally, the rule provides that, during consideration of H.R. 4776,  pursuant to House Resolution 951, the further amendment specified in  section 5 of this resolution shall be considered as adopted.

Mr. Speaker, this rule deals with several important bills that will  lower healthcare costs for Americans and protect children. One of the  bills, H.R. 3492, the Protect Children's Innocence Act, is led by the  gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).

This bill prohibits genital and bodily mutilation and chemical  castration for a minor, which generally is anyone under the age of 18  years, while also preserving the exception for this care if there is a  legitimate medical need for certain procedures.

Another bill we are considering in this rule is H.R. 498, the Do No  Harm in Medicaid Act, led by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Crenshaw).

This is a simple bill that prohibits Federal medical dollars to pay  for gender transition procedures for individuals under the age of 18.  The bill also includes protections for individuals if some of those  treatments are medically necessary.

These are important bills to ensure that Federal taxpayer dollars are  not going toward a minor's gender transition surgery if it is not  medically necessary. These bills also put guardrails in place so that  minors cannot make permanent life-altering decisions before they are 18  years of age.

Finally, we are considering H.R. 6703, the Lower Healthcare Premiums  for All Americans Act, led by the gentlewoman from Iowa (Mrs. Miller- Meeks).

This bill lowers premiums for Americans, creates more insurance  options, brings greater transparency, and cuts red tape.

Unlike our Democrat friends' plan, our Republican plan actually  lowers premiums by double digits, roughly 11 percent, according to the  data.

All the Democrats want to do is throw billions more dollars toward  insurance companies. Instead of attempting to lower the premiums of the  individuals who are on the insurance plan that the Democrats created,  which should be called the unaffordable care act, the Democrats have  cried wolf that Republicans are responsible for premiums being  unaffordable, but let's get the facts straight.

Every single Democrat voted in support of the so-called Affordable  Care Act. They claimed that people's premiums would be lowered;  patients would have more choice; and if you like your doctor, you can  keep him or her. However, just the opposite has happened. Their so- called Affordable Care Act has caused premiums to skyrocket. Due to  this, the Democrats are too afraid to own up to the fact that their  health plan has failed to actually lower premiums.

Instead, they have said to themselves: Hey, instead of acknowledging  our failure, let's just blame the Republicans for that failure.

Mr. Speaker, I distinctly remember a hearing before the Committee on  Energy and Commerce, shortly after I was elected, where most of the  witnesses said that the so-called Affordable Care Act was going to make  insurance premiums go up for Americans.

Mr. Speaker, that was over a decade ago, but the Democrats on the  committee insisted that the witnesses were wrong and that Republicans  were merely trying to scare the American people.

Mr. Speaker, unfortunately for the American people, the witnesses  were right. The so-called Affordable Care Act has, in fact, negatively  impacted the price of health insurance in America. This plan, the so- called Affordable Care Act, is a major reason that your insurance  premiums have gone up and have done so repeatedly.

When not blaming Republicans for the failures of this so-called  Affordable Care Act, do you know what the Democrats' solution is? Folks  watching this debate at home won't be surprised to know it. Democrats  want to throw billions of additional dollars to healthcare insurance  companies in an attempt to distract the American people from their own  policy failures.

I don't know if you all have been following the news closely, but the  insurance companies that the Democrats want to give an additional $85  billion to with their 3-year clean extension of the temporary COVID  enhanced premium tax credits have not been knocking on the doors, Mr.  Speaker, of the United States bankruptcy courts seeking protection or  aid. In fact, they have been making record profits--record profits.                                    (930)

Further, we know these temporary COVID-enhanced premium tax credits  have been riddled with waste, fraud, and abuse.

The independent Government Accountability Office recently came out  with a preliminary report that showed one Social Security number was  used to receive over 125 different insurance policies in 2023 alone.  That is fraud.

There is also a huge amount of waste. Mr. Speaker, my estimate, based  on data that I have seen, is that roughly 20 percent of enrollees in  the temporary COVID-enhanced premium tax credits don't really exist.  They are shadow enrollees.

Let me explain. In most healthcare insurance plans, they generally  have about 15 percent of the enrollees who make no claims in a given  year. In the arena of the temporary COVID-enhanced premium tax credits,  that number for those particular policies that have no claims is closer  to 35 percent. There is no reasonable explanation, Mr. Speaker, other  than those extra 20 percent of people not making claims don't really  exist. Now, I call this waste and not fraud, and that is because I  actually believe the insurance companies don't know which enrollees are  shadow enrollees.

How does this happen? It is a glitch in the way the bill was written  originally. People move around. If an individual signed up for a  program in north Florida to receive the enhanced premium tax credit and  then moved to south Georgia, or even to another city in Florida, and  signed up again, thinking, ``Well, I have moved, so I probably need a  different plan,'' the consumer has a right to believe that somebody at  their new plan or new company will notify the old carrier that they  have switched policies.

The way the program was designed by our friends on the other side of  the aisle, that never happens, and because an individual is  automatically reenrolled each year, this can go on for years. Thus,  over time, it builds up to that 20 percent of shadow enrollees.

We cannot, in good conscience, in defense of the American taxpayers'  money, just cleanly extend these temporary COVID-enhanced premium tax  credits without addressing the realities behind the waste, the fraud,  and the abuse that is occurring in this program.

I also find it interesting that the Democrats voted twice to extend  these temporary enhanced premium tax credits but specifically did not  make these  premium tax credits permanent. They didn't do it. They had many  opportunities to make these permanent if they wanted to do that as much  as they say today, but they didn't. They had many opportunities to make  these permanent if the enhanced premium tax credits were as imperative  to make the system work as they will claim here on the floor today, and  have been for several weeks, but they didn't do it.

Whose fault is that? Logic would tell us it is the Democrats' fault,  but when it comes to healthcare, the Democrats are never willing to  admit their policies failed. What do they do? Blame Republicans.

In the Inflation Reduction Act, Mr. Speaker, the Democrats  prioritized giving out around $1 trillion to Green New Deal initiatives  instead of making their temporary premium tax credit program permanent.

The fact is, even they couldn't find the votes when they had control  of both Houses and the White House to make the enhanced premium tax  credits permanent. Now, they are demanding Republicans do what they  could not do and clean up their mess, which was an add-on to the so- called Affordable Care Act.

I can't make that make sense, and, Mr. Speaker, I bet you can't  either.

What are they asking for now? You guessed it: another temporary  extension that fails to address the underlying causes of the  skyrocketing costs; doesn't deal with the waste, fraud, and abuse; and  worsens healthcare access caused by their so-called Affordable Care  Act. Instead, they just want to blame Republicans, use it as a  political issue, and give more money to insurance companies making  enormous profits.

What the Republicans have drafted is a plan to address health issues  across the board for our people and for our Nation. This bill brings  more transparency on the pharmacy benefit manager middlemen, better  known as PBMs, for employers. For too long, PBMs have gotten away with  operating in a black box and causing drug prices to rise. We are  bringing transparency into the commercial market for PBMs under this  bill.

The bill also expands access to association health plans, which allow  small businesses and self-employed workers to band together and  purchase health insurance. One of the biggest complaints we hear from  businesses, especially small businesses, is the rising costs of  premiums that they have.

In fact, Mr. Speaker, Virginia tried to create these plans, and CMS  told them they couldn't do it, that they would penalize them. The  Virginia Association of Realtors--let's see if I got the name right--in  an article from 2023, the leader said that they would create a plan for  7,000 association members who were uninsured because they don't make  enough money to afford the Federal marketplace coverage--that would be  the so-called Affordable Care Act--or to qualify for subsidies in the  small group and individual plans.

These small businesses don't have the bargaining power that larger  businesses do to help lower their premiums. Allowing these small  businesses to join together and have more bargaining power will help  lower their health insurance costs.

Another part of the plan codifies a 2019 Trump administration rule  that allows employers to give tax-advantaged dollars to their  employees, who can then use those dollars to purchase health insurance  and for other medical costs. When businesses are planning their  financial future, unpredictable health insurance costs and rising  premiums make it almost financially unviable in some cases. Allowing  businesses to have this option brings them more certainty and will give  power to their employees to choose a plan that is best for them.

Another flexibility we grant under this bill is by exempting stop- loss insurance from the definition of health insurance coverage. Stop- loss coverage is a type of coverage an employer can purchase to protect  themselves from unexpected catastrophic health claims if that employer  has chosen to self-insure their employees' healthcare. This allows an  employer to limit the financial risk imposed on them if an employee, or  a few of them, have unusually high medical claims that exceed the  budgeted amount. Some States have attempted to restrict or prohibit  these plans, which makes a self-insured option less attractive.

This bill clarifies that this type of coverage is exempted from the  definition of health insurance coverage, which means that these States  would be limited in how they can regulate stop-loss coverage while  still having to follow the regulations of ERISA.

On top of all of this, I would reiterate that the bill lowers  premiums of individuals who are enrolled in the so-called Affordable  Care Act plans by roughly 11 percent. It does this by appropriating  dollars for cost-sharing reductions. This will stop the practice of  silver loading by putting dollars toward lowering beneficiaries' out- of-pocket costs, which in turn lowers premiums for Americans who are on  the so-called Affordable Care Act, again, by roughly 11 percent.

Today, Mr. Speaker, you will hear my friends and colleagues on the  other side, the Democrats, tell you this plan is not meaningful and  that the only way to help individuals is to throw more money at big  insurance. Throwing more money at the insurance companies, Mr. Speaker,  is not the answer.

Mr. GRIFFITH.  Greene).

It gets curiouser and curiouser.

The gentleman from Massachusetts referenced that our protocol is to  have sunsets, but when my colleagues on the other side of the aisle had  the opportunity to make permanent the premium enhanced tax credits, we  didn't control the floor. They controlled the floor.

They don't have that protocol, as I understand it. They don't have  that protocol that they put sunsets on things. They could have and did  make other programs in the Green New Deal permanent. They could have  made it permanent; they chose not to. They had the Senate, the House,  and the Presidency.

It is not House Republican protocol that stopped them. It was a lack  of votes or will. If the program is so imperative today, why wasn't it  imperative for them 3 years ago?

I submit this is a paper tiger and that there is no substance in  their arguments or, if some substance, just a small amount.

Mr. Speaker, they had the chance. They had the power, and they didn't  use it to do what they want us to do today to fix their problems with  their so-called Affordable Care Act.

Mr. GRIFFITH.  Foxx) who is the chairwoman of the Rules Committee.

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues on the other side continually say that we  haven't done anything. We just received a message from the Senate on a  Republican bill that does something. Now, they may not like it, but I  find it fascinating. These debates are always so interesting, Mr.  Speaker.

They say we haven't put forward anything at some points, and at other  points in their debate, they claim that this bill is terrible, that it  does nothing.

Let me remind you, Mr. Speaker, that a part of this bill revives a  Democratic plan that was supposed to be short term called cost-sharing  reductions. It is fascinating because during the first Trump  administration, in May 2017, my Democratic colleagues--and I know some  of them weren't here yet--but 196 of them, including the gentleman from  Massachusetts, signed a letter asking--because it was not codified-- President Trump to use his executive power to continue the cost-sharing  reduction plan.

Mr. Speaker, I would love to hear from my colleagues why cost-sharing  reduction by them was considered to be so important to be continued to  help 7 million hardworking Americans and their families, more than  half--I am reading from their letter--of all marketplace enrollees for  2017 afford their out-of-pocket healthcare costs. That is what cost- sharing reduction does.

Today, they claim, as a part of our bill, it is nothing. It is  worthless. It is  not worth the paper it is written on, but in 2017, 196 of them,  including the gentleman from Massachusetts, asked the President of the  United States to continue the program.

Today, we are answering that call, saying we will answer that and put  it in our bill, but because it is now proposed as part of a Republican  bill, my colleagues, for some reason, don't remember their position in  2017 and call it trash.

Could it be mere political posturing for November elections? I submit  it is.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman is absolutely correct on this one point.  If what they want is socialized medicine, yes, I am against it and so  are most of the Republicans in this House. We are not for socialized  medicine.

When I was a student, I remember being in Edinburgh in 1979. Mr.  Finch across the hall with socialized medicine had to wait 10 months to  get surgery for a blockage in his heart.

When I came home, I discovered that in the United States it would  have been 3 days before he would have had that surgery. He died a  couple of years later because socialized medicine warehouses people  until they have time to get to them. That is not what our system does  nor should it.

Further, I would say that the Democrats come here today, and it is  their healthcare system. They created it. When they created the  Affordable Care Act, there were no Republican votes. When they extended  it or changed it a little bit and eventually renewed it again in the  Inflation Reduction Act, there were no Republican votes for that.

Today, they want to blame Republicans for their policy failures. The  American people will eventually see through that. I know they have done  a great job of convincing the American people that is the case, but it  isn't true.

They talk about the fact that, as costs are going up and they want  this new plan to throw $85 billion at the insurance companies, 85  percent has to be spent on healthcare. That is true.

Mr. Speaker, 15 percent of $500 that the insurance companies get to  put in their pockets is a whole lot less than 15 percent of $2,000. If  we throw more money at the insurance companies, the big insurance  executives get more money to put in their pockets. They are smiling  like Cheshire cats as the costs go up and they pocket larger profits.

Perhaps my Democratic colleagues don't want to admit it or don't  realize that they are the front men for big insurance, but that is what  they are. They are the front men for big insurance. Instead of facing  reality, their answer is to blame the Republicans and throw more  taxpayer money at the big insurance companies.

Mr. Speaker, giving the insurance companies more money will not solve  our healthcare problems.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 953 Offered By Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 6. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 6074) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986       to extend the enhancement of the health care premium tax       credit. All points of order against consideration of the bill       are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points       of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill       and on any amendment thereto to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 7. Clause 1(c) of the rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 6074.