Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial Equipment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688547/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-for-appliance-standards-certification-requirements-labeling-requirements-and-enforcement-provisions-for-certain-consumer-products-and-commercial-equipment


Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 177, I call  up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 42) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Department of Energy relating to ``Energy Conservation  Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling  Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products  and Commercial Equipment'', and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. GRIFFITH.  Res. 42.

Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I find this debate fascinating and interesting. That may  come as a shock, because it is really pretty boring. However, I find it  interesting because my colleagues have just said: Why are we spending  time worrying about this little regulation from the Department of  Energy when employees are losing their jobs?

Mr. Speaker, I submit to you that if this is such a small, little  regulation, I mean it is merely a labeling thing that doesn't cost very  much according to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, then  what in the world were we doing having DOE employees?

We have got so many DOE employees that they have time to spend all  day, weeks, and months creating a new regulation that my colleagues on  the other side of the aisle claim doesn't really have much value to it,  it is just a little label.

I would submit, Mr. Speaker, it costs more than what DOE has  estimated, because even though they spent countless hours coming up  with this new regulation, I would submit that in my opinion it looks  like they only counted the cost of the new labels. That is because  somebody has to send it to legal, and we have to determine if the new  certification has any legal consequences.

Does it say something on the new appliance or on the appliance that  is already out there but is in the production process that might cause  a legal issue?

I would submit it costs our manufacturers not only the money to print  the label but an employee to come up with the new label before it goes  to legal to be looked at. Somebody has to pay those people.

While the cost of the labels might only be $200,000, there is a cost  to each company. That is because this is broad. It doesn't apply to one  or two little items. It applies to all kinds of stuff.

I would submit, Mr. Speaker, that that is where your real cost is,  and instead of being concerned about coming up with some kind of a new  certificate that has to have a new label, maybe we shouldn't have been  doing that at the DOE. Maybe we should have been focusing on making  small nuclear reactors available for communities and working on ways to  provide a stronger electric grid; but no, no, by golly, we are going to  have the best labels in the world. That is what we need.

Mr. Speaker, I submit to you this regulation needs to go away, but my  colleagues have told me that it is insignificant. If they don't think  it is significant, I think we should get rid of it, particularly when  it is going to cost businesses.

It may not cost every business, maybe one manufacturer out of dozens  and dozens, or maybe hundreds. I haven't done a study, Mr. Speaker. I  will just tell you that it has been interesting to listen to all of  this discussion.

I will remind you, Mr. Speaker, that over the last 4 years, the Biden  administration finalized more than 30 new or updated energy efficiency  standards that ended up totaling over $60 billion in costs. This is  just one of many cuts to our manufacturing base in the United States  and our producers as well as across the world.

The Biden administration was out to regulate or restrict nearly every  appliance or piece of equipment relied upon by every single American  household and business.

Today, the House will vote on H.J. Res. 42 to repeal yet another  Biden-Harris administration rule that only serves to increase red tape  and costs to manufacturers. We know what happens when the costs to  manufacturers go up; the American consumer pays the price.

In October 2024, the Department of Energy finalized new and amended  certification, labeling, and enforcement provisions for about 20  different products, including dishwashers, central AC, heat pumps, and  more.

I am going to get to the ``and more'' in a minute.

Today, an American homeowner spends about 34 percent more money on  appliances than they did just 15 years ago. From 1995 to 2005, the  average homeowner replaced their appliances about every 12 or 13 years.  These days families get new appliances about every 8 or 9 years. Maybe  it is because they are not as efficient as they used to be. I don't  know.

However, I do know on one washer-dryer standard, according to the  data--I believe this was DOE data--there was a 46-year payback on a  device that was expected to last or be expected to be used by the  homeowner 8 to 9 years. We are going to make it more efficient, but, by  golly, it is going to cost you, Mr. Speaker. It is going to cost you,  and it is going to take 46 years to pay back on an item you will only  use for about 10.

Consumers are buying more frequently in part because some energy  standards make the appliance wear down more quickly. That is what my  suspicion was all along.

Consumers don't see the savings. These appliances just don't last as  long because they have got to run their washing machine three times.

I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, one time I had a constituent contact  me, and she said: Morgan, look at this picture. I take a hose from my  backyard to fill up my washing machine because under the new guidelines  there is not enough water in there to actually get my clothes clean on  one time, so I supplement it with the backyard hose and add more water  to my washing machine.

Yeah, that is really, really good policy.

I remember an old DOE energy standard from a few years ago that one  of my constituents told me about related to the washing machine. I just  told you that story, Mr. Speaker, and I think it is instructive.

This final rule will only expand already broken efficiency standards,  increase costs, and slow the development of reliable, efficient  products.

On a previous DOE standard for electric combination washer-dryers,  DOE said in plain black and white in Federal regulations: payback  period 46 years.

DOE itself estimates this final rule might only cost $213,000, but  that is $213,000 we don't have to spend. As I said, I don't think it is  that cheap. I think by the time you get finished with the lawyers and  everybody who has to review it and all the time that is spent by your  employees, Mr. Speaker, it is a lot more than that in reality.

DOE assumes manufacturers will incur these additional costs, but we  know better than that. They will send that on to the consumer, and it  will cost us more money.

It also has a DOE expansion in data collection. In one example  regarding the data collection, Mr. Speaker, you have to collect the  data for dedicated purpose swimming pool pump motors.

Historically, DOE only collected data demonstrating compliance with  efficiency standards. However, in this final rule, DOE aims to expand  reporting requirements to store data for potential future conservation  standards.

If you are trying to run a pool, whether at your house or a  commercial operation, I can assure you, Mr. Speaker, that is an  additional cost. You are  having to collect all this data, Mr. Speaker, or if it is built into  your machine, then that is going to cost more, and it is unnecessary.  We are making everything more complicated.

Mr. Speaker, you will be surprised to know that at one time in my  life I was a Virginia certified pool operator. That is why I brought  this over. I keep this on my desk. When the baby pool pump--that would  qualify as one of these dedicated purpose swimming pool pump motors-- when it broke down, and it would have been in 1980, I found that when  we had to get it replaced, this was the gadget that had worn out.

It reminded me that we were moving from brass, in this case, to  plastic, and so I have kept it on my desk all these years.

Who knew it would become important today because probably some kind  of a label should have been on here if we had today's standards in  place. I don't know. All I do know is that when you are trying to get  something replaced, Mr. Speaker, particularly in the case of a swimming  pool, when the pump breaks, it means you are going to have to shut your  facility down, and you are not looking at the label on the new pump  motor. You are just getting it in there as fast as you can. You are  driving over to the swimming pool supply place, Mr. Speaker, or you are  calling them up and saying: Get over here now.

That came out of the Hunting Hills Country Club baby swimming pool  where I was the manager that summer and was a certified pool operator  to have that job.

Now we are going to be collecting data on all this stuff. Mr.  Speaker, you would think we were TikTok in the way we are collecting  data on swimming pool motors and other devices.

This overcollection jeopardizes confidential business information. It  might not have mattered to the swimming pools I worked with, but it  complicates the matter. It is an inappropriate use of the certification  process.

Additionally, many of the provisions in this final rule are also  duplicative of existing reporting requirements by certain States, EPA,  and Energy Star. This increase in red tape will do nothing to lower  appliance prices, and it will do nothing to lengthen product lifetimes  or to bring real energy savings to the American homeowner.

Accordingly, Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Georgia (Mr.  Clyde) for his leadership on bringing this to our attention. I urge all  Members to join me in voting in favor of H.J. Res. 42, and I yield back  the balance of my time.