Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698849/haiti-economic-lift-program-extension-act


Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6504,  the Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act.

The Haiti HELP/HOPE program provides significant benefit to both the  U.S. and Haiti. These preferences can deliver tangible results in Haiti  while also supporting our goals for diversification.

Providing duty-free access for textiles and apparel from Haiti leads  to more affordable products for U.S. consumers while creating in- country opportunities for Haiti's workforce.

The apparel and textiles industry is important for the Haitian  people, providing economic stability throughout times of uncertainty  and unrest.

As President Dwight D. Eisenhower once said: ``World trade helps to  lay the groundwork for peace by making all free nations of the world  stronger and more self-reliant.'' While times have changed somewhat  since these words were spoken, the message still rings true.

As a key pillar of our economic engagement with Haiti, the HELP/HOPE  program has supported industry growth while encouraging a more stable  business environment. However, as with AGOA and other expired  preference programs, Haiti HELP/HOPE should not be the extent of our  engagement. Congress and the Trump administration must develop  additional strategies to work with Haiti to create a more sustainable  and self-reliant economy.

A more stable Haitian economy supports American companies that seek  to do business there, creating a supply chain for those products as we  diversify away from China.

Onshoring and nearshoring of critical industries cannot leave  opportunities within our own hemisphere on the table. We have the  opportunity today to reassert congressional commitment to fostering  security and prosperity in Haiti, supporting businesses that are  already operating in Haiti or looking to establish new supply chains.

Reauthorizing Haiti HOPE/HELP is the right thing to do. It is in our  interest to support stability in Haiti, and I encourage my colleagues  to join me in supporting this bill.