Nebraska Wildfire Crisis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700899/nebraska-wildfire-crisis


Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues  to join me in keeping the people of Nebraska in their thoughts and  prayers as our State confronts the worst wildfire crisis in our  history.

Nebraska has always been defined by resilience. From the pioneers who  endured brutal blizzards, devastating droughts, and an uncertain future  to build a life on the Great Plains, to the families who call it home  today, that spirit has never left us. It is who we are.

Today, that spirit is being tested once again. On March 12, four  fires ignited across central and western Nebraska. In less than a week,  they have burned over 826,000 acres, and there is still no clear end in  sight.

This past weekend, I joined Governor Pillen and Senator Ricketts to  tour the affected areas and meet with local officials to learn about  the latest containment efforts. What I saw and heard was certainly  sobering. The scale of this devastation is staggering.

Across 10 counties, no less than 46 structures have been destroyed  and 470 more are threatened. At least 600 Nebraskans have had to  evacuate their homes, and 1 Nebraskan, Rose White of Arthur, Nebraska,  has lost her life. I certainly take a moment to offer my heartfelt  condolences to her children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and  all who knew and loved her.

Right now, these fires continue to burn, and Mother Nature is not  predicted to be of any assistance any time soon. The Morrill fire, now  the largest wildfire in Nebraska's history, has already burned more  than 643,000 acres  and is only 16 percent contained. The Cottonwood fire has taken over  131,000 acres and is just 40 percent contained. Road 203 fire has  burned more than 35,000 acres and is only 36 percent contained, and the  Anderson Bridge fire has burned up to 17,000 acres and is 60 percent  contained.

Yet, even in the face of this disaster, Nebraskans are doing what we  have always done, and that is coming together. Neighbors are helping  neighbors. Unaffected communities across our State are sending their  support, and a countless number of brave volunteer firefighters and  first responders continue to work around the clock, putting everything  on the line to protect lives, land, and livelihoods.

Governor Pillen has deployed the Nebraska National Guard, and Iowa  Governor Kim Reynolds has sent Iowa National Guard helicopters with  Bambi Buckets and crews trained for firefighting operations to assist  in these efforts. This is what it means to look out for one another.

While this fight is far from over, we must remember what is at stake.  Agriculture is the backbone of Nebraska's economy and a way of life for  countless families. These fires are not just burning land. They are  threatening livelihoods.

Heading into the summer, it is expected that more than 35,000 head of  cattle will be without grass this grazing season. Tens of millions of  dollars' worth of fencing, fence lines, and other crucial  infrastructure have been lost. This means for many producers that the  hardship will continue long after the fires are contained.

I ask those producers to please document their losses when it is safe  to do so. Federal disaster assistance programs are available, and I  want to ensure that support is received for those who are eligible.

I also will take a moment to be honest about what is happening here  in Washington. While Nebraska is battling the worst wildfire in our  State's history, Senate Democrats are continuing to hold funding for  the Department of Homeland Security hostage, putting future FEMA  disaster relief funding at risk. Enough is enough. Disaster relief and  other vital programs, including TSA and others, should never be used as  a political pawn.

All Nebraskans should know that they have the full support of the  entire Nebraska Federal delegation, and we stand ready to help in any  way that we can. We have faced tough times before, and we have always  come through them stronger together. We will do that again now because  that is who we are as Nebraskans.