Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President and fellow colleagues, I come to the floor  today to talk about the American Energy Innovation Act, which is here  before the Senate and which we are considering this week. 

  America's energy landscape has changed dramatically since the last  major Energy bill was enacted by Congress more than a decade ago. It is  time to update our outdated energy policy to reflect today's realities,  goals, and challenges in the energy sector. 

  The American Energy Innovation Act--the business before the Senate  today--is the cumulation of more than a year of hearings, business  meetings, and negotiations in the Energy and Natural Resources  Committee. I commend Chairman Murkowski and Ranking Member Manchin for  their leadership and all of us on the committee in bringing this  strong, bipartisan, ``all of the above'' energy package to the floor. 

  Included in this legislation are a number of provisions I have  proposed that will benefit Idaho and the Nation. 

  First, the bill appropriately recognizes the importance of having a  strong domestic nuclear industry. I represent not just one of the  Department of Energy's National Laboratories, but I represent the  Nation's flagship nuclear energy laboratory, the Idaho National Lab. 

  Nuclear power is the Nation's largest source of reliable, carbon-free  energy. To date, nuclear powerplants have primarily served one  purpose--to produce electricity--but we are discovering  through the work at the Idaho National Lab that this is only the tip of  the iceberg as far as the work a nuclear reactor could do. 

  The INL and the Department of Energy are currently working to  demonstrate that nuclear reactors can be adapted to produce other  products like hydrogen, steam, and, importantly, heat. To accelerate  this research, Ranking Member Manchin and I introduced the Integrated  Energy Systems Act to help improve the long-term competitiveness of our  current fleet of nuclear reactors. That bill is included in the larger  bill we have before us. 

  While we must keep our existing fleet of reactors online, we must  also usher in the next generation of advanced nuclear reactor designs.  This is particularly exciting at this point in time. The bipartisan  Nuclear Energy Leadership Act will address key supply chain and other  challenges associated with developing small, modular, micro, and other  advanced designs. This act is also included in the larger bill before  us today. That bill, NELA, will enable the Federal Government to  partner with the private sector to demonstrate and commercialize these  technologies, and the INL's National Reactor Innovation Center will  play a key role in making these designs a reality. 

  When looking toward a clean, reliable, and secure energy future, the  importance of rare-earth minerals cannot be overstated. In Idaho, we  have the Nation's only significant domestic deposit of cobalt--a  mineral that is vital for electric vehicles, wind turbines, and  military hardware. Yet, instead of mining and processing this mineral  in the United States, we import our supply from China. 

  Cobalt is just one of many minerals the United States relies on  imports for. We need to start prioritizing domestic supply and  processing our critical minerals for our energy and domestic security  future. I appreciate that we have also included this act in the big  bill that is in front of us. This is the American Mineral Security Act,  and it prioritizes our energy independence. 

  I am also pleased that the key provisions of my bill, the Enhancing  Geothermal Production on Federal Lands Act, were also included. That  act is included in the larger bill. 

  Idaho has long been a world leader in the development of geothermal  technologies. In fact, the Idaho State Capital Building is the only  State capital in the United States that is heated solely with  geothermal energy. 

  There is significant potential to expand this renewable energy in  Idaho and indeed across the Western United States, and most of this  potential exists on federally managed lands. Unfortunately, developers  looking to harness this resource on Federal lands must navigate a  labyrinth of regulations. The provisions in this bill will unleash our  Nation's vast geothermal resources by making the current permitting  review process more efficient, cost-effective, predictable, and,  importantly, take a shorter period of time. 

  Lastly, I am proud that this legislation contains language from the  PROTECT Act that will modernize our electric grid and enhance cyber  security efforts. I don't need to spend any time on cyber security. It  is important for our electric grid. It is one of the favorite targets  of terrorists around the world. They usually go through cyber security. 

  The worldwide adoption of digital automation technology has created  great benefits, but it also introduces significant cyber  vulnerabilities to critical energy infrastructure. I am proud that the  solutions to many of these challenges are being developed at the Idaho  National Laboratory, which is the world leader in critical  infrastructure, control systems, and security research in those areas. 

  Protecting our electric grid is one of the most pressing security  challenges, and we must incentivize the energy sector to deploy the  most advanced cyber security technologies. 

  The additional authorities and tools in these bills are critical to  both our energy and national security, and I am committed--hopefully  along with all of my colleagues here in the Senate--to seeing those  matters cross the finish line in this important act, which finally  reaches us at this critical time. 

  With that, I will yield the floor to my distinguished colleague from  New Mexico. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT