Arm Sales Notification


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

    If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is  available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations  Committee, room SD-423. 

        Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 19-76       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Jordan for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $300 million. After this       letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news       release to notify the public of this proposed sale.            Sincerely,                                                 Charles W. Hooper,                                 Lieutenant General, USA, Director. 

       Enclosures:                            Transmittal No. 19-76       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended 

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Jordan. 

       (ii) Total Estimated Value: 

       Major Defense Equipment * $40 million. 

       Other $260 million. 

       Total $300 million. 

       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: Advanced Field       Artillery Tactical Data System (AFATDS) including hardware,       software, and associated services. 

       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): Up to seven hundred (700)       AFATDS Software License Copies with a Tailored, International       Ballistic Kernel. 

       Non-MDE: Also included are up to two hundred (200) each       laptop and table computers, ancillary computer mounting       hardware, battery kits and chargers, printers, scanners,       network routers and communication hardware, modems, two       hundred fifty (250) each diesel fueled 5 kilowatt auxiliary       power units (APUs), one hundred (100) each diesel fueled       electrical power generators, fifty (50) each model 7800-HF       150-Watt high frequency radios, five hundred (500) each model       7850-MB 50-Watt multiband (UHF & VHF) radios, five hundred       fifty (550) each model 7850-MB IO-Watt multiband (UHF & VHF)       radios, all the required cables and components, required       engineering and installation services, operations,       integration, and maintenance services, contractor furnished       support, communications support equipment, tools and test       equipment, training, U.S. Government technical/logistical       Support, contractor technical support, spares and support       equipment, and other related elements of logistical and       program support services. 

       (iv) Military Department: Army (JO-B-YBJ). 

       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: JO-B-WYB. 

       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None. 

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex. 

       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 25,       2020. 

       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             Policy Justification  

  Jordan--Artillery Command, Control and Communications (C3) Equipment  

       The Government of Jordan has requested to buy up to seven       hundred (700) Advanced Field Artillery Tactical Data System       (AFATDS) software license copies with a tailored,       international ballistic kernel. Also included are up to two       hundred (200) each laptop and table computers, ancillary       computer mounting hardware, battery kits and chargers,       printers, scanners, network routers and communication       hardware, moderns, two hundred fifty (250) each diesel fueled       5 kilowatt auxiliary power units (APUs), one hundred (100)       each diesel fueled electrical power generators, fifty (50)       each model 7800-HF 150- Watt high frequency radios, five       hundred (500) each model 7850-MB 50-Watt multiband (UHF &       VHF) radios, five hundred fifty (550) each model 7850-MB IO-      Watt multiband (UHF & VHF) radios, all the required cables       and components, required engineering and installation       services, operations, integration, and maintenance services,       contractor furnished support, communications support       equipment, tools and test equipment, training, U.S.       Government technical/logistical Support, contractor technical       support, spares and support equipment, and other related       elements of logistical and program support services. The       estimated cost is $300 million. 

       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by helping to improve       the security of an important Major Non-NATO ally in the       region. This sale is consistent with U.S. initiatives to       provide key partners in the region with modern systems that       will enhance interoperability with U.S. forces and increase       security. 

       The proposed upgrade will allow the Jordan Armed Forces       (JAF) to fire Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System-      Alternative Warhead (GMLRS-AW) rockets using a digital fire       control system. The expansion will ensure uniformity among       all indirect fire systems used by the JAF. The upgrade and       expansion of the AFATDS fire control system will allow the       JAF to defend its borders and ground forces with indirect       fire weapon systems. This proposed sale will advance the       JAF's efforts to modernize its military and to enhance       interoperability with U.S., allied, and coalition military       forces. Jordan will have no difficulty absorbing these       defense articles and services into its armed forces. 

       The proposed sale will not alter the basic military balance       in the region. 

       The prime contractors for the AFATDS and supporting       equipment include Raytheon Company and the Harris Company.       There are no known offset agreements in connection with this       potential sale. 

       Implementation of this sale will not require the assignment       of any U.S. Government or contractor representatives to       Jordan. 

       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 19-76       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii  

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology: 

       1. All equipment, documentation, software and associated       information proposed in this sale is UNCLASSIFIED. 

       2. The AFATDS software and tailored, international       ballistic kernel included in this proposed sale will be       formally tested to verify release for export and to verify       the excision of any and all elements not authorized for       release or export to Jordan. 

       3. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures or       equivalent systems which might reduce system effectiveness or       be used in the development of a system with similar or       advanced capabilities. 

       4. A determination has been made that the Jordan can       provide substantially the same degree of protection for the       sensitive technology being released as the U.S. Government.       This sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign       policy and national security objectives outlined in the       Policy Justification.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT