Arms Sales Notification


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

    If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is  available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations  Committee, room SD-423. 

        Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 19-75       concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of the Netherlands for defense       articles and services estimated to cost $85 million. After       this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a       news release to notify the public of this proposed sale.            Sincerely,                                                 Charles W. Hooper,                                 Lieutenant General, USA, Director. 

       Enclosures.                                 Transmittal No. 19-75       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended 

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of the Netherlands. 

       (ii) Total Estimated Value: 

       Major Defense Equipment* $75 million. 

       Other $10 million. 

       Total $85 million. 

       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: 

       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): Sixteen (16) MK-48 Mod 7       Advanced Technology (AT) Torpedo Conversion Kits. 

       Non-MDE: Also included are spare parts, containers,       associated hardware, torpedo handling equipment, and cables;       U.S. Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services; and other related elements of       logistics and program support. 

       (iv) Military Department: Navy (NE-P-LHC A5). 

       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: NE-P-LHC. 

       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None. 

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Annex       Attached. 

       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 25,       2020. 

  *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION                 Netherlands--MK-48 Torpedo Conversion Kits  

       The Government of the Netherlands has requested to buy       sixteen (16) MK-48 Mod 7 Advanced Technology (AT) torpedo       conversion kits. Also included are spare parts, containers,       associated hardware, torpedo handling equipment, and cables;       U.S. Government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services; and other related elements of       logistics and program support. The total estimated program       cost is $85 million. 

       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by helping to improve       security of a NATO ally which is an important force for       political stability and economic progress in Northern Europe. 

       The Netherlands desires to upgrade additional MK 48 Mod 4       torpedoes to the MK 48 Mod 7 AT model. They intend to use the       MK 48 Mod 7 AT torpedo on their Walrus Class submarines. The       Netherlands will have no difficulty absorbing this equipment       into its armed forces. 

       The proposed sale of this equipment will not alter the       basic military balance in the region. 

       The prime contractor will be Raytheon Company, Portsmouth,       RI. The Netherlands may require offset agreements in       connection with this potential sale. Any offset agreement       will be defined in negotiations between the Purchaser and the       prime contractor. 

       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to the Netherlands. Travel of U.S. Government       or contractor representatives to the Netherlands on a       temporary basis for program technical support and management       oversight will be required. 

       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 19-75       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii  

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology: 

       1. The Mod 7 configuration is the United States Navy's most       capable submarine launched torpedo. It has a new sonar       receiver that has a broader bandwidth capability than       previous versions, and also employs a new tactical processor       that has increased memory and throughput. The Mod 7AT       configuration has the same guidance and control system and       the same software as the Mod 7. However, it employs the Mod       4M afterbody which results in higher radiated noise. 

       2. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities. 

       3. A determination has been made that the Netherlands can       provide substantially the same degree of protection for the       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This       proposed sustainment program is necessary to the furtherance       of the U.S. foreign policy and national security objectives       as outlined in the Policy Justification. 

       4. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Netherlands.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT