Arms Sales Notification


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Madam President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

    If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is  available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations  Committee, room SD-423. 

        Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 20-12       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Israel for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $2.40 billion. After this       letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news       release to notify the public of this proposed sale.            Sincerely,                                                 Charles W. Hooper,                                 Lieutenant General, USA, Director. 

       Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 20-12       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended 

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Israel. 

       (ii) Total Estimated Value: 

       Major Defense Equipment * $2.25 billion. 

       Other $0.15 billion. 

       Total $2.40 billion. 

       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: 

       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): 

       Up to eight (8) KC-46 Aircraft 

       Up to seventeen (17) PW4062 Turbofan Engines (16 installed,       1 spare). 

       Up to eighteen (18) MAGR 2K-GPS SAASM Receivers (16       installed, 2 spares). 

       Non-MDE: Also included are AN/ARC-210 U/VHF radios, APX-119       Identification Friend or Foe transponders, initial spares and       repair parts, consumables, support equipment, technical data,       engineering change proposals, publications, Field Service       Representatives (FSRs), repair and return, depot maintenance,       training and training equipment, contractor technical and       logistics personnel services, U.S. Government and contractor       representative support, Group A and B installation for       subsystems, flight test and certification, other related       elements of logistics support and training. 

       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (IS-D-YAG). 

       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None. 

       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None. 

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex. 

       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: March 3, 2020. 

       * As defined in Section 47 

       (6) of the Arms Export Control Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION                  Israel--KC-46A Aerial Refueling Aircraft  

       The Government of Israel has requested to buy up to eight       (8) KC-46 aircraft; up to seventeen (17) PW4062 turbofan       engines (16 installed, 1 spare); and up to eighteen (18) MAGR       2K-GPS SAASM receivers (16 installed, 2 spares). Also       included are AN/ARC-210 U/VHF radios, APX-119 Identification       Friend or Foe transponders, initial spares and repair parts,       consumables, support equipment, technical data, engineering       change proposals, publications, Field Service Representatives       (FSRs), repair and return, depot maintenance, training and       training equipment, contractor technical and logistics       personnel services, U.S. Government and contractor       representative support, Group A and B installation for       subsystems, flight test and certification, other related       elements of logistics support and training. The total       estimated program cost is $2.4 billion. 

       The United States is committed to the security of Israel,       and it is vital to U.S. national interests to assist Israel       to develop and maintain a strong and ready self-defense       capability. This proposed sale is consistent with those       objectives. 

       The proposed sale further supports the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by allowing Israel to       provide a redundant capability to U.S. assets within the       region, potentially freeing U.S. assets for use elsewhere       during times of war. Aerial refueling and strategic airlift       are consistently cited as significant shortfalls for our       allies. In addition, the sale improves Israel's national       security posture as a key U.S. ally. Israel will have no       difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed forces. 

       The proposed equipment and support will not alter the basic       military balance in the region. 

       The principal contractors will be Boeing Corporation,       Everett, WA, for the aircraft; and Raytheon Company, Waltham,       MA, for the MAGR 2K. There are no known offset agreements       proposed in connection with this potential sale. 

       Implementation of this proposed sale will require the       assignment of two U.S. field service/contractor       representatives to Israel. 

       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 20-12       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii  

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology: 

       1. The Boeing KC-46 is an aerial refueling aircraft with       two (2) Pratt & Whitney Model 4062 (PW4062) Turbofan engines.       The KC-46 evolved from the Boeing 767-200ER passenger       aircraft and the 767-2C provision freighter. Refueling       systems and military avionics have been added to the       aircraft. 

       2. The Miniature Airborne Global Positioning System       Receiver 2000 (MAGR 2K)       with Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Module (SAASM)       design is a GPS Receiver Applications Module based open       system architecture that is modular in design and       incorporates modern electronics. The MAGR 2K is a form, fit,       and function backward compatible replacement of the MAGR, and       provides enhancements including improved acquisition and GPS       solution performance, all-in-view GPS satellite tracking and       GPS integrity. 

       3. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures or       equivalent systems which might reduce system effectiveness or       be used in the development of a system with similar or       advanced capabilities. 

       4. A determination has been made that Israel can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This sale       is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification. 

       5. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Israel.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT