Arms Sales Notification


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

    If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is  available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations  Committee, room SD-423. 

        Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 19-66       concerning the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Australia for defense       articles and services estimated to cost $1.50 billion. After       this letter is delivered to your office, we plan       to issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed       sale.            Sincerely,                                                 Charles W. Hooper,                                 Lieutenant General, USA, Director. 

       Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 19-66       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended 

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Australia. 

       (ii) Total Estimated Value: 

       Major Defense Equipment * $.50 billion. 

       Other $1.00 billion. 

       Total $1.50 billion. 

       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: The Government of       Australia has requested to buy long lead items, engineering       development activities, and other defense services to support       the Australian Surface Combatant Program, including the       modernization of three Hobart Class Destroyers, and       construction of the first three (of nine total) Hunter Class       Frigates. 

       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): 

       Three (3) Shipsets of the AEGIS Weapon System (AWS) in the       MK 6 Mod 1 configuration to support the Modernization of the       Hobart Class DDGs, including: AEGIS Combat System Support       Equipment (ACSSE); Weapon Data Recording Cabinet (WDRC)       equipment; Multi-Mission Signal Processor (MMSP-R) equipment;       Network, Processing and Storage (NPS) equipment; Consoles       Displays and Peripherals (CDP) equipment; Embedded Training       System (ETS); Kill Assessment System (KAS); and Shipboard       Gridlock System (SGS). 

       Three (3) Shipsets of the AEGIS Weapon System (AWS) in the       MK 6 Mod I configuration to support the New Construction of       the Hunter Class FFGs, including AEGIS Combat System Support       Equipment (ACSSE); Electronic Equipment Fluid Cooler (EEFC)       equipment; and Network, Processing and Storage (NPS)       equipment; and Consoles Displays and Peripherals (CDP)       equipment; Shipboard Gridlock System (SGS); Embedded Training       System (ETS) and AN/SPQ-15 equipment. 

       Three (3) shipsets of the MK 41 Vertical Launching Systems       (VLS) for installation on the Hunter Class Frigates; 

       Three (3) shipsets (2 mounts per ship) of the Close-In       Weapons System (CIWS) for installation on the Hunter Class       Frigates; 

       Two (2) Australia AEGIS Weapon System Computer Programs       (one for Hobart Class, one for Hunter Class), and associated       computer programs for AEGIS Combat System components for       installation on both the Hobart and Hunter Class ships; 

       Six (6) shipsets of the Global Positioning System (GPS)--      Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing Service (GPNTS)       Navigation Systems and associated Advanced Digital Antenna       Production (ADAP) antennas and support equipment for       installation on the Hobart and Hunter Class ships; 

       Six (6) shipsets of upgraded Cooperative Engagement       Capability (CEC) equipment for installation on the Hobart and       Hunter Class ships; 

       Six (6) shipsets of Command and Control Processor (C2P)       equipment for installation on the Hobart and Hunter Class       ships; 

       Eight (8) shipsets of Multifunctional Information       Distribution System Joint Tactical Radio Set (MIDS JTRS)       terminals for installation on the Hobart and Hunter Class       ships. 

       Non-MDE: 

       Also included are: 

       Three (3) shipsets of MK 34 Gun Weapon System (GWS)       modification equipment to include the Electro Optical Sight       System and changes supporting Naval Fires Planner and       associated TacLink Control System for installation on the       Hobart Class Destroyers; 

       Three (3) shipsets of MK 34 Gun Weapon System components to       include the MK 160 Gun Computing System and the MK 20 Electro       Optical Sight System, and the Naval Fires Planner and       associated TacLink Control System for installation on the       Hunter Class Frigates; 

       Three (3) shipsets of: Mode 5/S capable Identification,       Friend of Foe (IFF) Systems; Gigabit Ethernet Data       Multiplexing System (GEDMS); AN/WSN-7 Ring Laser Gyrocompass       Inertial Navigation Systems; WSN-9 Digital Hybrid Speed Log       systems; Common Data Link Management System (CDLMS); and       Global Command and Control System--Maritime (GCCS-M) systems       for installation on the Hunter Class Frigates; 

       Six (6) shipsets of AN/SRQ-4 Hawklink and SQQ-89 Sonobuoy       processing equipment for installation on the Hobart and       Hunter Class ships; 

       Defense services for development and integration of a       capability upgrade for the installed AEGIS Combat System on       the Hobart Class Destroyer, including Integrated Air and       Missile Defense capability and growth capability for       Ballistic Missile Defense; 

       Development, integration and testing support for       installation of a AEGIS Combat System for installation on the       Hunter Class FFG, a Global Combat Ship Type 26 (BAE)       platform, including the integration of the indigenous CEAF AR       2 Phased Array Radar (CEA Industries) with the AEGIS Combat       System (including Cooperative Engagement Capability) and the       primary radar sensor and illuminator; 

       Integration of selected Australian provided combat system       components including Undersea Warfare and Ship Self Defense       for installation on the Hobart and Hunter Class ships; 

       Integration of the MH-60R helicopter into the AEGIS Combat       System for installation on the Hobart and Hunter Class ships; 

       Procurement and delivery of installation support material,       special purpose test equipment, initial logistics outfitting,       spares and other ancillary equipment to support the       installation and integration of AEGIS Combat System equipment       in the Hunter and Hobart class ship platforms; 

       Development of technical documentation to support both       programs; provision of logistics and other support services       to support the Hobart and Hunter Class ships; 

       Procurement, staging, delivery and installation support for       AEGIS Combat System equipment for the Hobart and Hunter Class       ships; 

       Provision of training support for curriculum development,       training tool development, front-end analysis, and crew       training for the Hobart and Hunter Class ships; 

       U.S. Government and contractor representative engineering,       logistics, and technical support services; and other related       elements of logistics and program support for the Hobart and       Hunter Class ships. 

       (iv) Military Department: Navy (AT-P-LFZ). 

       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: AT-P-LCQ, AT-P-GSU, and       AT-P-GSC. 

       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None. 

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex. 

       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: January 14, 2020. 

       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION            Australia--Australia Surface Combatant (ASC) Program  

       The Government of Australia has requested to buy long lead       items, engineering development activities, and other defense       services to support the Australian Surface Combatant Program,       including the modernization of three Hobart Class Destroyers,       and construction of the first three (of nine total) Hunter       Class Frigates which includes: three (3) Shipsets of the       AEGIS Weapon System (AWS) in the MK 6 Mod 1 configuration to       support the Modernization of the Hobart Class DDGs; three (3)       Shipsets of the AEGIS Weapon System (AWS) in the MK 6 Mod 1       configuration to support the New Construction of the Hunter       Class FFGs; three (3) shipsets of the MK 41 Vertical       Launching Systems (VLS) for installation on the Hunter Class       Frigates; three (3) shipsets (2 mounts per ship) of the       Close-In Weapons System (CIWS) for installation on the Hunter       Class Frigates; two (2) Australia AEGIS Weapon System       Computer Programs (one for Hobart Class, one for Hunter       Class), and associated computer programs for AEGIS Combat       System components for installation on both the Hobart and       Hunter Class ships; six (6) shipsets of the Global       Positioning System (GPS)--Based Positioning, Navigation and       Timing Service (GPNTS) Navigation Systems and associated       Advanced Digital Antenna Production (ADAP) antennas and       support equipment for installation on the Hobart and Hunter       Class ships; six (6) shipsets of upgraded Cooperative       Engagement Capability (CEC) equipment for installation on the       Hobart and Hunter Class ships; six (6) shipsets of Command       and Control Processor (C2P) equipment for installation on the       Hobart and Hunter Class ships; and eight (8) shipsets of       Multifunctional Information Distribution System Joint       Tactical Radio Set (MIDS JTRS) terminals for installation on       the Hobart and Hunter Class ships. Also included are: three       (3) shipsets of MK 34 Gun Weapon System (GWS) modification       equipment to include the Electro Optical Sight System and       changes supporting Naval Fires Planner and associated TacLink       Control System for installation on the Hobart Class       Destroyers; three (3) shipsets of MK 34 Gun Weapon System       components to include the MK 160 Gun Computing System and the       MK 20 Electro Optical Sight System, and the Naval Fires       Planner and associated TacLink Control System for       installation on the Hunter Class Frigates; three (3) shipsets       of: Mode 5/S capable Identification, Friend of Foe (IFF)       Systems; Gigabit Ethernet Data Multiplexing System (GEDMS);       AN/WSN-7 Ring Laser Gyrocompass Inertial Navigation Systems;       WSN-9 Digital Hybrid Speed Log systems; Common Data Link       Management System (CDLMS); and Global Command and Control       System-Maritime (GCCS-M) systems for installation on the       Hunter Class Frigates; six (6) shipsets of AN/SRQ-4 Hawklink       and SQQ-89 Sonobuoy processing equipment for installation on       the Hobart and Hunter Class ships; defense services for       development and integration of a capability upgrade for the       installed AEGIS Combat System on the Hobart Class Destroyer,       including Integrated Air and Missile Defense capability and       growth capability for Ballistic Missile Defense; development,       integration and testing support for installation of a AEGIS       Combat System for installation on the Hunter Class FFG, a       Global Combat Ship Type 26 (BAE) platform, including the       integration of the indigenous CEAF AR 2 Phased Array Radar       (CEA Industries) with the AEGIS Combat System (including       Cooperative Engagement Capability) and the primary radar       sensor and illuminator; integration of selected Australian       provided combat system components including Undersea Warfare       and Ship Self Defense for installation on the Hobart and       Hunter Class ships; integration of the MH-60R helicopter into       the AEGIS Combat System for installation on the Hobart and       Hunter Class ships; Procurement and delivery of       installation support material, special purpose test       equipment, initial logistics outfitting, spares and other       ancillary equipment to support the installation and       integration of AEGIS Combat System equipment in the Hunter       and Hobart class ship platforms; development of technical       documentation to support both programs; provision of       logistics and other support services to support the Hobart       and Hunter Class ships; procurement, staging, delivery and       installation support for AEGIS Combat System equipment for       the Hobart and Hunter Class ships; provision of training       support for curriculum development, training tool       development, front-end analysis, and crew training for the       Hobart and Hunter Class ships; U.S. Government and contractor       representative engineering, logistics, and technical support       services; and other related elements of logistics and program       support for the Hobart and Hunter Class ships. The total       estimated cost is $1.50 billion. 

       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States. Australia       is one of our most important allies in the Western Pacific.       The strategic location of this political and economic power       contributes significantly to ensuring peace and economic       stability in the region. 

       The proposed sale will enhance Australia's Surface       Combatant capability by modernizing their existing three       AEGIS capable Hobart Class Destroyers with the latest       technology and capability, and delivering the first three (of       nine) AEGIS capable Hunter Class Future Frigates. This sale       enhances Australia's self-defense capability, while       significantly improving interoperability with U.S. Navy AEGIS       combatants in the region. By deploying a surface combatant       fleet that will incorporate Cooperative Engagement Capability       (CEC), Australia will significantly improve network-centric       warfare capability for US forces operating in the region.       Australia will have no difficulty absorbing this equipment       into its armed forces. 

       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region. 

       There are a significant number of companies under contract       with the U.S. Navy that will provide components and systems       as well as engineering services during the execution of this       effort, with a significant portion of the effort to be       performed by Lockheed Martin, Rotary and Mission Systems,       Moorestown, NJ. There are no known offset agreements proposed       in connection with this potential sale. 

       Implementation of this proposed sale will require travel of       U.S. Government and/or contractor representatives to       Australia on a temporary basis for program support and       management oversight. No extended (long-term) visits to       Australia will be required as part of this effort. 

       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 19-66       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii  

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology: 

       1. This sale involves the procurement of long lead material       and services to support the Australian Surface Combatant       Program. The AEGIS Combat System (ACS) to be procured to       support the modernization of the Hobart Class Destroyers is a       multi-mission combat system providing Integrated Air and       Missile Defense (IAMD) and a growth path to Ballistic Missile       Defense (BMD) capability, derived from USN AEGIS Weapon       System Baseline 9 capability. In addition to shipboard AEGIS       equipment, this proposed sale will provide software,       documentation (including combat system capabilities and       limitations), training devices and services, and other       technical support to ensure the proper installation, testing       and operation of the provided equipment. 

       2. AEGIS Weapon System simulation software, documentation,       training and study material will be provided a classification       levels up to and including SECRET. Delivery of sensitive       technological information, up to and including SECRET, will       be limited to the minimum level of information required to       progress activities associated with the integration of       indigenous combat system systems into the AEGIS Combat       System. This consists primarily of AEGIS Combat System       requirements and integration information to support early       combat system development activities, in the form of       documentation, simulation software, and technical       specifications. This information is sensitive as it provides       limited insight into AEGIS Combat System capabilities and       requirements--as tailored to the Australian AEGIS Combat       System configurations. 

       3. The Cooperative Engagement Capability (CEC) is a system       that fuses tracking data from shipboard sensors and       distributes radar measurement data to other platforms with       CEC capability. This data is filtered and combined to create       a common tactical picture, based on available sensor data       from all platforms netted through the CEC system. The       hardware is unclassified with the exception of a       Communications Security (COMSEC) card which is classified       SECRET. The software and documentation are classified SECRET.       All manuals and technical documentation disclosure will be       limited to those necessary for operational use and       organizational maintenance. 

       4. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures, which       might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities. 

       5. This sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S.       foreign policy and national security objectives outlined in       the enclosed Policy Justification. A determination has been       made that Australia can provide the same degree of protection       for the sensitive technology being released as the U.S.       Government. 

       6. All defense articles and services listed on this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Australia.                                   ____                                       

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT