Arms Sales Notification


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

    If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is  available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations  Committee, room SD-423. 

        Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(l) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 20-09       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Poland for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $100 million. After this       letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news       release to notify the public of this proposed sale.            Sincerely,                                                 Charles W. Hooper,                                 Lieutenant General, USA, Director. 

       Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 20-09       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended 

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Poland. 

       (ii) Total Estimated Value: 

       Major Defense Equipment* $75 million. 

       Other $25 million. 

       Total $100 million. 

       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: 

       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): 

       One hundred eighty (180) Javelin Missiles. 

       Seventy-nine (79) Javelin Command Launch Units (CLU). 

       Non-MDE: Also included are Basic Skill Trainers (BST),       Missile Simulation Rounds (MSR), Battery Coolant Units (BCU),       tool kits, modified 2-level maintenance parts, training, U.S.       Government and contractor technical assistance,       transportation and other related elements of logistics       support. 

       (iv) Military Department: Army (PL-B-UDN). 

       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None. 

       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None. 

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex. 

       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: March 4, 2020. 

       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION              Poland--Javelin Missile and Command Launch Unit  

       The Government of Poland has requested to buy one hundred       eighty (180) Javelin missiles and seventy-nine (79) Javelin       Command Launch Units (CLUs). Also included are Basic Skill       Trainers (BST), Missile Simulation Rounds (MSR), Battery       Coolant Units (BCU), tool kits, modified 2-level maintenance       parts, training, U.S. Government and contractor technical       assistance, transportation and other related elements of       logistics support. The total estimated program cost is $100       million. 

       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by improving the       security of a NATO ally and partner nation which is an       important force for peace, political stability, and economic       progress in Eastern Europe. 

       This proposed sale of the Javelin system will help Poland       build its long-term defense capacity to defend its       sovereignty and territorial integrity in order to meet its       national defense requirements. Poland will have no difficulty       absorbing this system into its armed forces. 

       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region. 

       The prime contractors will be Raytheon/Lockheed Martin       Javelin Joint Venture, Orlando, Florida and Tucson, Arizona.       There are no known offset agreements proposed in connection       with this potential sale. However, the purchaser typically       requests offsets. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor(s). 

       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of U.S. Government or contractor representatives       to Poland. 

       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 20-09       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(l) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii  

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology: 

       1. The Javelin Weapon System is a medium-range, man-      portable, shoulder-launched, fire-and-forget, anti-tank       system for infantry, scouts, and combat engineers. It may       also be mounted on a variety of platforms including vehicles,       aircraft, and watercraft. The system weighs 49.5 pounds and       has a maximum range in excess of 2,500 meters. The system is       highly lethal against tanks and other systems with       conventional and reactive armors. The system possesses a       secondary capability against bunkers. 

       2. The Javelin Weapon System is comprised of two major       tactical components, which are a reusable Command Launch Unit       (CLU) and a round contained in a disposable launch tube       assembly. The CLU incorporates an integrated day-night sight       that provides a target engagement capability in adverse       weather and countermeasure environments. The CLU may also be       used in a stand-alone mode for battlefield surveillance and       target detection. The CLU's thermal sight is a Forward       Looking Infrared (FLIR) sensor. 

       3. The Javelin's key technical feature is the use of fire-      and-forget technology which allows the gunner to fire and       immediately relocate or take cover. The missile is       autonomously guided to the target which allows the gunner the       ability to reload and engage another target after firing a       missile. The missile has a tandem warhead that is effective       against armor threats. 

       4. The Javelin Missile System hardware and the       documentation are UNCLASSIFIED. The missile software which       resides in the CLU is CLASSIFIED. 

       5. If a technologically advanced adversary obtains       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures or       equivalent systems that might reduce weapon system       effectiveness or be used in the development of a system with       similar or advanced capabilities. 

       6. A determination has been made that Poland can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This       proposed sale is necessary to further the U.S. foreign policy       and national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification. 

       7. All defense articles and services listed on this       transmittal are authorized for release and export to the       Government of Poland. 

       Dear Chairmen Alexander and Collins, Ranking Members Murray       and Casey, Chairman Scott and Ranking Member Foxx: On behalf       of the National Association of Area Agencies on Aging (n4a),       which represents the country's 622 Area Agencies on Aging       (AAAs) and is an advocacy voice for the more than 250 OAA       Title VI Native American aging programs, we write today in       strong support of the recently introduced bipartisan,       bicameral legislation to update and reauthorize the Older       Americans Act (OAA) through 2024. 

       The Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020, an amendment in       the nature of a substitute to H.R. 4334, co-sponsored by       Senators Collins and Casey, represents the diligent work of       all of your Committee Members and staff to secure broad and       bipartisan support to responsibly update a landmark Act that       supports millions of older adults and caregivers in       communities across the nation. 

       As you well know, the OAA is the cornerstone of the       nation's non-Medicaid home and community-based services       (HCBS) system, providing older adults with much-needed       supports, including in-home care, congregate and home-      delivered meals, adult day care, information and referral       assistance, case management, transportation, legal services       and caregiver support/respite. 

       n4a appreciates your recognition of what is already working       in the Act, including its unique delivery structure and       intentional emphasis on local flexibility. 

       We especially commend the bicameral and bipartisan work to       include the following provisions in the amendment to H.R.       4334, as they are among the most important provisions in the       bill and reflect many of n4a's policy recommendations, which       we shared with Congress in March 2019. 

       We very much appreciate the annual increases in the       authorized funding levels. A lack of adequate funding is the       number one barrier our members face in meeting the needs of       older adults and caregivers, and with the rapidly increasing       numbers of older adults in every community, the bill's       recommendations to increase core programs by seven percent in       year one and six percent in subsequent years is an excellent       starting point for appropriators to heed. Additionally, we       are pleased that the bill the returns to a five-year       authorization period, which provides greater stability and       allows the Aging Network to focus on achieving the Act's       goals, rather than divert time to advocacy to renew a law       that works so well. 

       Part of any reauthorization is ensuring that the law       remains clear in its direction, even as other systems or laws       change over time. Section 118 is an excellent example of       this, whereby the bill makes clear that Area Agencies on       Aging can engage in emerging opportunities to serve greater       numbers of older adults through non-OAA funding streams.       Examples include contracts with health care payers to provide       meals or transportation to clients; establishing private-pay       programs to enable AAAs to provide services to those who can       afford to purchase OAA-like services when OAA resources are       limited or unavailable; or similar mechanisms that serve the       goals of the Act while operating outside of it. The bill also       makes clear the role of the Assistant Secretary on Aging to       continue encouraging and training the Aging Network on these       matters of business acumen, innovation and changing models of       health care and social services. 

       We also commend the Title VI Native American aging program       provisions. By allowing the Administration on Aging to create       demonstrations around a broader array of Supportive Services       than most Title VI aging programs can currently provide and       includes increased funding to do so--the bill will help       tribes build capacity and better meet the needs of the elders       they serve.  

       By including a robust new research and demonstration       authority for the Administration on Aging (AoA) in Title IV,       we appreciate your work to create a research and evaluation       center in Sec. 127 focused on promoting and coordinating       research and evaluation activities to enhance performance,       develop new models and produce data-driven assessments of the       value of the OAA programs. While we are disappointed that       these activities lack a specific funding authorization, we       are pleased that lawmakers acknowledge the importance of       these activities and the need to create a dedicated entity       focused on them. 

       While a smaller measure, eliminating a 10 percent cap on       serving grandparents and other older relative caregivers       under the Act's Title III E National Family Caregiver Support       Program is also important to n4a members. Eliminating this       arbitrary cap reflects the growing realities of the opioid       epidemic and the need for sufficient state and local       flexibility to serve these older caregivers who face uniquely       challenging caregiving burdens. 

       The research base revealing the negative health outcomes       from social isolation and loneliness continues to grow and       increasingly documents the risks to the health and well-being       of older adults. n4a appreciates the bill's thoughtful       addition of language in multiple places in the Act to       recognize the challenge we face, as well as the fact that       many core OAA programs already address social isolation and       promote social engagement. 

       n4a requested a minor change to ensure that Area Agencies       on Aging have access to a state's cost-sharing policy or       guidance. Section 212 of the bill also accomplishes this. 

       We will not detail the many other provisions in the bill--      most of which we support or take no position on--but will       again reiterate our thanks that this final product reflects       our members' concerns and realities. Congress was diligent in       soliciting and considering the recommendations of a broad       array of constituencies and organizations during this       reauthorization process. 

       Thank you for your leadership in crafting an OAA update       that ensures that the Act's innovative, efficient programs       enabling older Americans to live at home and in their       communities for as long as possible continues to be a       lifeline in communities across the country. 

       We urge the Senate and House to act swiftly to approve the       Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020, H.R. 4334, and send       it to President Trump for his signature. The stability that a       finalized and current OAA reauthorization provides is       critical to ensuring that the millions of older adults and       caregivers served by the OAA can continue to live with       dignity and independence in their homes and communities for       as long as possible. Should you have any questions, please       feel free to contact me or n4a's policy staff at       202.872.0888.            Sincerely,                                                    Sandy Markwood,      Chief Executive Officer.                                   ____                                          Meals on Wheels America,                                                   January 30, 2019. 

       Dear Chairmen Alexander and Collins and Ranking Members       Murray and Casey: On behalf of Meals on Wheels America, the       nationwide network of community-based senior nutrition       programs and the individuals they serve, we write to endorse       the ``Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020.'' This       legislation would amend H.R. 4334, the Dignity in Aging Act       that passed by voice vote in the House last fall, and       reauthorize the Older Americans Act (OAA) for five years. We       commend you for your leadership and hard work to reach this       bipartisan, bicameral agreement and urge unanimous passage as       soon as possible. 

       Since 1965, the OAA has been the primary piece of federal       legislation focused on establishing, coordinating and       strengthening home- and community-based social and nutrition       services for adults 60 and older and their families. OAA       services like Meals on Wheels, transportation, caregiver       assistance, senior employment and training and elder rights       protection are just some of the vital functions the OAA       provides to more than 11 million seniors annually. 

       As you and many of your colleagues know firsthand, OAA       services and supports--including the three nutrition programs       authorized under Title III of the Act--help keep our nation's       most vulnerable, isolated and food insecure seniors healthier       and in their own homes and communities longer. This, in turn,       delays and/or prevents altogether the need for more expensive       institutional care often paid for through Medicare or       Medicaid. OAA programs are not only extremely cost-effective,       but they are also longstanding examples of public-private       partnerships that save taxpayer dollars at the local, state       and federal levels in terms of reduced healthcare       expenditures. 

       We strongly support the authorized appropriations increases       contained in this legislation. With nearly half of our Meals       on Wheels programs having a documented waiting list for       nutrition services, the 6% increase in authorization of       funding levels through Fiscal Year 2024 for OAA programs will       significantly improve the senior nutrition network's ability       to close these service gaps. 

       We further appreciate recognition of the significant impact       of OAA nutrition services and supports and the steps taken to       strengthen them through provisions in this final compromise       reauthorization bill. Provisions that advance research and       data, including capturing the unmet need and scope of waiting       lists for congregate and home-delivered meals, and increase       focus on culturally appropriate and medically-tailored meals,       malnutrition, and the negative health consequences of social       isolation are key priorities of our organization, among many       others. 

       Accordingly, we urge the Senate to swiftly pass the       ``Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020'' to help better       meet the inherent changes in our country's aging population       and serve more of those in need. Meals on Wheels America and       the nationwide network of senior nutrition programs have       appreciated contributing feedback and policy recommendations       throughout this reauthorization process and look forward to       continuing to work with you to build upon the ongoing       successes of the OAA. 

       Thank you again for your leadership, public service and       support for our nation's older adults.            Sincerely,                                                   Ellie Hollander,      President and CEO.                                   ____                                                             AARP,                                                   February 4, 2020. 

       Dear Chairmen Alexander and Scott and Ranking Members       Murray and Foxx: On behalf of our nearly 38 million members       and all older Americans nationwide, I am writing to express       AARP's support for the Supporting Older Americans Act of       2020, a bipartisan amendment in the nature of a substitute to       H.R. 4334 that would reauthorize the Older Americans Act       (OAA). We are pleased that this amendment maintains critical       service and information roles of OAA programs, and promotes       greater responsiveness to the needs of older Americans. We       appreciate your leadership in developing this bipartisan,       bicameral agreement and look forward to a prompt       reauthorization of OAA. 

       Giving Americans the support they need to live at home with       independence and dignity has always been a bedrock goal of       OAA, and it has been remarkably successful. The Supporting       Older Americans Act builds on this success by further       enhancing OAA programs and services. This amendment addresses       AARP's OAA reauthorization priorities, including further       strengthening the National Family Caregiver Support Program       (NFCSP), extending the bipartisan Recognize, Assist, Include,       Support, and Engage (RAISE) Family Caregivers Act (P.L. 115-      119), and increasing funding levels for OAA programs. 

       The Supporting Older Americans Act enhances support for       caregivers by encouraging the use of caregiver assessments       under NFCSP. Assessing the caregiving situation can lead to       targeting services more effectively by linking the caregiver       to the services most beneficial to them. Better targeting of       support services can also help maintain the health and well-      being of the caregiver, sustain their ability to provide       care, produce better outcomes for their loved ones, and       prevent or delay nursing home placement. The provision to       extend RAISE will provide the RAISE Family Caregiving       Advisory Council with more time to identify meaningful       solutions for supporting the 41 million family caregivers       nationwide who provide a staggering $470 billion annually in       unpaid care to their loved ones. And importantly, at a time       when the older population is projected to grow significantly,       the increased funding levels provided in the amendment would       assist more older Americans and caregivers, thus helping more       older adults remain at home and in better health, avoiding       costlier services. 

       We commend the committees for their bipartisan and       bicameral work, and urge prompt reauthorization of the Older       Americans Act to ensure that our loved ones can continue to       turn to these vital services for their health and economic       security as they age. If you have any questions, please feel       free to contact me or have your staff contact Nicole Burda on       our Government Affairs team.            Sincerely,                                                 Megan O'Reilly,                            Vice President, Federal Health & Family,      Government Affairs.                                   ____                                                   February 7, 2020. 

       Dear Leaders McConnell and Schumer, Speaker Pelosi, Leader       McCarthy, Chairman Alexander, Ranking Member Murray, Chairman       Scott and Ranking Member Foxx: On behalf of the undersigned       128 national organizations with a vested interest in the       well-being of America's older adults and caregivers, we write       to you today in support of the Supporting Older Americans Act       of 2020 (H.R. 4334) to reauthorize the Older Americans Act       (OAA). 

       We recognize and appreciate the diligent bipartisan and       bicameral efforts to reauthorize the Older Americans Act,       which expired on September 30, 2019. Achieving a       reauthorization of this critical Act that reaffirms and       protects its mission will ensure the sustainability of vital       OAA programs, as well as the health, dignity, and       independence of the older Americans and their caregivers who       depend on them. 

       The OAA is essential to developing, coordinating, and       delivering home and community-based services that help older       adults remain in their homes and communities as they age.       Many individuals served by OAA-funded programs would       otherwise be at significant risk of hunger, isolation, abuse,       and losing their ability to choose where they want to age.       OAA-supported programs are provided to       more than 11 million seniors and their caregivers annually,       and include, but are not limited to, home-delivered and       congregate nutrition services, in-home supportive services,       multipurpose senior centers, transportation, caregiver       support, disease prevention and health promotion, community       service employment, the long-term care ombudsman program, and       services to prevent the abuse, neglect, and exploitation of       older adults. 

       By keeping seniors healthy and in their communities for       more than 50 years, OAA programs have also delayed or       prevented the need for more expensive institutional care for       many older adults, which is often paid for through Medicare       or Medicaid. OAA services can effectively save taxpayer,       state, and federal dollars and promote efficiencies within       the health care system. 

       The Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020 builds upon both       the House-passed Dignity in Aging Act (H.R. 4334) and the       Senate-introduced Modernization of the Older Americans Act       Amendments (S. 3057) to incorporate a number of important       priorities articulated by stakeholder organizations. Most       importantly, the bicameral compromise calls for necessary       investments in the OAA by increasing funding authorizations       over the next five years--a top priority of the undersigned       organizations and the most critical need of the Aging Network       authorized by the OAA. 

       Other priorities within the bill address research and       demonstrations, Native American services, local planning and       development, supports for those living with dementia and       social isolation, legal services, nutrition, in-home       supportive services, disease prevention and health promotion,       multigenerational collaboration, and family caregiver       supports. We appreciate that the Supporting Older Americans       Act of 2020 preserves the numerous ways in which this Act       works so well at the federal, state, and local level, on       behalf of the older adults and caregivers for whom it is a       lifeline to dignity, independence, health, safety, and       economic security. 

       Thank you for your commitment to this important issue. The       undersigned organizations represent a diverse set of       stakeholders, and we stand ready to build upon existing       momentum to swiftly advance the compromise bill through       Congress and to the President's desk.            Sincerely, 

       AARP; Academy of Geriatric Physical Therapy, a component of       the APTA; Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics; ADvancing       States; Aging Life Care Association; AHEPA Management       Company; Alliance for Aging Research; Alliance to End Hunger;       Allies for Independence; ALS Association; Alzheimer's       Alliance Michigan State University; Alzheimer's Association;       Alzheimer's Foundation of America; Alzheimer's Impact       Movement; Alzheimer's Los Angeles; Alzheimer's New Jersey;       Alzheimer's Tennessee; American Association For Geriatric       Psychiatry; American Association of Service Coordinators;       American Association on Health and Disability; American       Council of the Blind. 

       American Geriatrics Society; American Hellenic Educational       Progressive Association; American Network of Community       Options & Resources (ANCOR); American Occupational Therapy       Association; American Physical Therapy Association; American       Public Health Association; American Therapeutic Recreation       Association; Argentum; Association of Assistive Technology       Act Programs; Baylor Scott & White Health; Better Medicare       Alliance; Blinded Veterans Association (BVA); Brain Injury       Association of America; Caregiver Action Network; Caregiver       Voices United; Caring Across Generations; CaringKind; Center       for Medicare Advocacy; Center for Public Representation;       Center to Advance Palliative Care; Christopher & Dana Reeve       Foundation. 

       College of Psychiatric and Neurologic Pharmacists (CPNP);       CommunicationFIRST; Community Catalyst; Congregation of Our       Lady of the Good Shepherd, U.S. Provinces; Corporation for       Supportive Housing; Daughters of Penelope; Dementia Alliance       International; Easterseals; Family Voices; Florida Agencies       Serving the Blind; Feeding America; Food Research & Action       Center; Generations United; Guide Dogs for the Blind; Health       Benefits ABCs; Home Instead Senior Care; Home Modification       Occupational Therapy Alliance-HMOTA; International       Association for Indigenous Aging; Justice in Aging; Lakeshore       Foundation; LEAD Coalition (Leaders Engaged on Alzheimer's       Disease). 

       LeadingAge; Livpact Inc.; Local Initiatives Support       Corporation; Lutheran Services in America; MAZON: A Jewish       Response to Hunger; Meals on Wheels America; Medicare Rights       Center; National Able Network; National Adult Day Services       Association (NADSA); National Adult Protective Services       Association; National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the       Good Shepherd; National Affordable Housing Trust; National       Alliance for Caregiving; National Asian Pacific Center on       Aging (NAPCA); National Assn. of RSVP Directors; National       Association for Home Care & Hospice; National Association of       Area Agencies on Aging (n4a); National Association of       Councils on Developmental Disabilities (NACDD); National       Association of Counties (NACo); National Association of       Development Organizations (NADO); National Association of       Nutrition and Aging Services Programs (NANASP). 

       National Association of Regional Councils; National       Association of Senior Legal Hotlines; National Association of       Social Workers (NASW); National Association of State Head       Injury Administrators; National Association of State Long-      Term Care Ombudsman Programs (NASOP); National Community       Action Partnership; National Community Reinvestment Coalition       (NCRC); National Consumer Voice for Quality Long-Term Care;       National Council on Aging; National Council on Independent       Living; National Housing Trust; National Law Center on       Homelessness & Poverty; National Respite Coalition; NETWORK       Lobby for Catholic Social Justice; Network of Jewish Human       Service Agencies; Ohio Council for Cognitive Health; PHI;       Planetree International; Prevent Blindness; Program in       Occupational Therapy, Washington University School of       Medicine; Region 10 LEAP; RESULTS; Retirement Housing       Foundation. 

       Rossetti Enterprises Inc.; Sanford/Good Samaritan Society;       Silvernest; Stewards of Affordable Housing for the Future;       The Arc of the United States; The Association for       Frontotemporal Degeneration; The Carroll Center for the       Blind; The Episcopal Church; The Evangelical Lutheran Good       Samaritan Society; The Gerontological Society of America; The       Jewish Federations of North America; Trust for America's       Health (TFAH); United Church of Christ Justice and Witness       Ministries; United Spinal Association; UsAgainstAlzheimer's;       Village to Village Network; VisionServe Alliance; WISER;       Volunteers of America; Women's Institute for a Secure       Retirement (WISER).    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT