Arms Sales Notification


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

    If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is  available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations  Committee, room SD-423. 

        Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 19-55,       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of India for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $1.867 billion. After this       letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news       release to notify the public of this proposed sale.            Sincerely,                                              Charles W. Hooper,                                            Lieutenant General, USA,                                                          Director. 

       Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 19-55       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended 

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of India. 

       (ii) Total Estimated Value: 

       Major Defense Equipment* $ 0.492 billion. 

       Other $ 1.375 billion. 

       Total $ 1.867 billion. 

       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: India has       requested a possible sale of an Integrated Air Defense Weapon       System comprised of: 

       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): 

       Five (5) AN/MPQ-64Fl Sentinel Radar Systems. 

       One hundred eighteen (118) AMRAAM AIM-120C-7/C-8 Missiles. 

       Three (3) AMRAAM Guidance Sections. 

       Four (4) AMRAAM Control Sections. 

       One hundred thirty-four (134) Stinger FIM-92L Missiles. 

       Non-MDE: Also included are thirty-two (32) M4A1 rifles;       forty thousand three hundred twenty (40,320) M855 5.56mm       cartridges; Fire Distribution Centers (FDC); Handheld Remote       Terminals; Electrical Optical/Infrared (EO/IR) Sensor       Systems; AMRAAM Non-Developmental Item-Airborne       Instrumentation Units (NDI-AIU); Multi-spectral Targeting       System-Model A (MTS-A); Canister Launchers (CN); High       Mobility Launchers (HML); Dual Mount Stinger (DMS) Air       Defense Systems; Vehicle Mounted Stinger Rapid Ranger Air       Defense Systems; communications equipment; tool kits; test       equipment; range and test programs; support equipment; prime       movers; generators; technical documentation; computer based       training equipment; training equipment; training towers;       ammunition storage; training and maintenance facilities;       infrastructure improvements; U.S. Government and contractor       technical support, engineering and logistics support       services; warranty services; Systems and Integration Checkout       (SICO); field office support; and other related elements of       logistics and program support. 

       (iv) Military Department: Army (IN-B-UAP) and Air Force       (IN-D-YAC). 

       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None. 

       (vi) Sales Commission. Fee. etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None. 

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex. 

       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: February 7, 2020. 

  *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION      India--Integrated Air Defense Weapon System (IADWS) and Related                           Equipment and Support  

       The Government of India has requested to buy an Integrated       Air Defense Weapon System (IADWS) comprised of: five (5) AN/      MPQ-64Fl Sentinel radar systems; one hundred eighteen (118)       AMRAAM AIM-120C-7/C-8 missiles; three (3) AMRAAM Guidance       Sections; four (4) AMRAAM Control Sections; and one hundred       thirty-four (134) Stinger FIM-92L missiles. Also included are       thirty-two (32) M4A1 rifles; forty thousand three hundred       twenty (40,320) M855 5.56mm cartridges; Fire Distribution       Centers (FDC); Handheld Remote Terminals; Electrical Optical/      Infrared (EO/IR) Sensor Systems; AMRAAM Non-Developmental       Item-Airborne Instrumentation Units (NDI-AIU); Multi-spectral       Targeting System-Model A (MTS-A); Canister Launchers (CN);       High Mobility Launchers (HML); Dual Mount Stinger (DMS) Air       Defense Systems; Vehicle Mounted Stinger Rapid Ranger Air       Defense Systems; communications equipment; tool kits; test       equipment; range and test programs; support equipment; prime       movers; generators; technical documentation; computer based       training equipment; training equipment; training towers;       ammunition storage; training and maintenance facilities;       infrastructure improvements; U.S. Government and contractor       technical support, engineering and logistics support       services; warranty services; Systems and Integration Checkout       (SICO); field office support; and other related elements of       logistics and program support. The total estimated cost is       $1.867 billion. 

       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by helping to       strengthen the U.S.-Indian strategic relationship and to       improve the security of a major defensive partner, which       continues to be an important force for political stability,       peace, and economic progress in the Indo-Pacific and South       Asia region. 

       India intends to use these defense articles and services to       modernize its armed forces, and to expand its existing air       defense architecture to counter threats posed by air attack.       This will contribute to India's military goal to update its       capability while further enhancing greater interoperability       between India, the U.S., and other allies. India will have no       difficulty absorbing these systems into its armed forces. 

       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not       alter the basic military balance in the region. 

       The principal contractors involved in this program are The       Raytheon Corporation and Kongsberg Defense and Aerospace.       There are       no known offset agreements proposed in conjunction with this       proposed sale; however, the purchaser typically requests       offsets. Any offset agreement will be defined in negotiations       between the Purchaser and the prime contractor(s). 

       Implementation of this proposed sale will require 60 U.S.       Government or contractor representatives to travel to India       for a period of six weeks (non-concurrent). Activities will       include de-processing/fielding, training, and technical/      logistics support. 

       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 19-55       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii  

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology: 

       1. The Integrated Air Defense Weapon System (IADWS) is a       System of Systems (SOS) consisting of the National Advanced       Surface-to-Air Missile System (NASAMS), a Very Short Range       Air Defense (VSHORAD) capability consisting of the Stinger       FIM-92 Reprogrammable Micro-Processor (RMP) Block I missile,       and small arms. The IADWS is designed for mid-range air       defense and can be deployed to engage fixed wing and rotary       wing aircraft, cruise missiles, and unmanned aerial vehicles       (UAVs). The IADWS is not a Program of Record (POR) for the       U.S. Department of Defense, but the SOS architecture does       consist of four PORs: The U.S. Army's AN/MPQ-64 Sentinel       radar, the U.S. Army's FIM-92L Stinger Missile, U.S. Air       Force's Multi-Spectral Targeting System-A (MTS-A), and the       U.S. Air Force's AIM-120 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air       Missile (AMRAAM). The NASAMS is comprised of U.S. and       Norwegian manufactured components. Norwegian components will       be procured by the Raytheon Company. Norwegian involvement       will be managed by Raytheon using export authorizations       received from the U.S. Department of State. 

       2. The NASAMS Fire Unit (FU) consists of one fire       distribution center (FDC), one AN/MPQ-64Fl surveillance,       acquisition, and tracking radar, 3 truck-mounted Canister       Launchers (LCHR) and the High Mobility Launcher (HML) with 6       AMRAAM missiles each, and one truck-mounted Electrical       Optical/Infrared (EO/IR) Sensor System, the MTS-A, for visual       target identification and raid size assessment. 

       3. The command and control entity, FDC, is the major       operator interface in NASAMS. It provides all command and       control functionality necessary to effectively conduct Air       Defense missions, both in a stand-alone (autonomous)       configuration as well as in a netted configuration integrated       to other units. The FDC interfaces and controls the MPQ-64Fl       Sentinel radar, the MTS-A EO/IR Sensor and the Canister and       High Mobility-Launchers. In addition, it interfaces and sends       commands to any connected Very Short Range Air Defense       (VSHORAD) Stinger platforms. The FDC also interfaces (voice       and data) to the national command and control structure. 

       4. The AN/MPQ-64Fl Sentinel Radar is the organic mobile Air       Defense acquisition and tracking sensor for the United States       Army. Sentinel provides persistent air surveillance and fire       control quality data through command and control systems to       defeat Unmanned Aerial System (UAS), cruise missiles, and       fixed-wind and rotary-wing aircraft threats. 

       5. The purpose of the Canister Launcher (LCHR) and the High       Mobility Launcher (HML) is to transport, aim, and fire the       AMRAAM missiles. Under the remote control of the Fire       Distribution Center (FDC), the LCHR/HML permits rapid       launching of one or more missiles against single or multiple       targets. The LCHR/HML provides 360-degree, all weather, day       and night, missile launch capability. 

       6. The AN/AAS-52 and AN/AAS-44C(V) Multi-Spectral Targeting       System-A (MTS-A) is a multi-use infrared (IR), electro       optical (EO), and laser detecting ranging-tracking set       originally developed and produced for use by airborne       platforms. This advanced EO and IR system provides long-range       surveillance, target acquisition, target tracking, range       finding, and laser designation. It has been adapted for       towers, aerostats, and ground based applications. 

       7. The AIM-120C-7/C-8 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air       Missile (AMRAAM) is a supersonic, aerial intercept, guided       missile featuring digital technology and micro-miniature       solid-state electronics that is also able to operate as a       ground-based air defense missile capable in all-weather       against multiple targets in a sophisticated electronic attack       resistance to electronic countermeasure, and interception of       high- and low-flying maneuvering targets. The AIM-120C-8 is a       form, fit, function refresh of the AIM-120C-7 and is the next       generation to be produced. 

       8. The VSHORAD system consists of the four Dual Mount       Stinger (DMS) systems, two Rapid Ranger (RR) Stinger Mobile       Integrated Defense Systems, and the Stinger 92L       Reprogrammable Micro-Processor (RMP) Block I missile. 

       9. The Stinger 92L Reprogrammable Micro-Processor (RMP)       Block I missile is an infrared homing surface-to-air missile       that can be adapted to fire from a wide variety of ground       vehicles. 

       10. The DMS System provides a man-transportable pedestal       system that can be used day or night in any environment. The       DMS fires two Stinger missiles, and includes fully integrated       day/night sights with optical zoom capability. Included as       part of the DMS is a ruggedized tablet from which video       output from the visible band day-sight, IR scene from the       night-sight, and target cueing data are integrated. Slew-to-      cue- information provides guidance to the gunner for target       selection. The OMS can interface with the NASAMS FDC for       Target Designation and Target Engagement Authorization as       well as autonomous operation. 

       11. The Rapid Ranger (RR) consists of a High Mobility       Vehicle operated by a crew of three. The RR is integrated by       Raytheon with two Stinger Vehicle Universal Launchers       (SVULs), a Fire Control System (FCS), and a Command, Control       and Communications (C3) System. The RR can interface with       NASAMS FDC for Target Designation and Target Engagement       Authorization as well as autonomous operation. 

       12. This sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S.       foreign policy and national security objectives outlined in       the Policy Justification. Moreover, the benefits to be       derived from this sale, as outlined in the Policy       Justification, outweigh the potential damage that could       result if the sensitive technology were revealed to       unauthorized persons. 

       13. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of India.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT