Arms Sales Notification


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

    If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is  available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations  Committee, room SD-423. 

        Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 20-23       concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Republic of Korea for defense articles and       services estimated to cost $675 million. After this letter is       delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news release to       notify the public of this proposed sale.            Sincerely,                                              Charles W. Hooper,                                            Lieutenant General, USA,                                                          Director. 

       Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 20-23       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended 

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Republic of Korea. 

       (ii) Total Estimated Value: 

       Major Defense Equipment * $0 million. 

       Other $675 million. 

       Total $675 million. 

       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: 

       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None. 

       Non-MDE: Follow-on support and services for Republic of       Korea's F-35 aircraft, engines, and weapons; publications and       technical documentation; support equipment; spare and repair       parts; repair and return; test equipment; software delivery       and support; pilot flight equipment; personnel training       equipment; U.S. Government and contractor technical and       logistics support services; and other related elements of       program support. 

       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (KS-D-QGC). 

       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: KS-D-SAC. 

       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None. 

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None. 

       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 10, 2020. 

       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             POLICY JUSTIFICATION                       Korea--F-35 Follow-On Support  

       The Republic of Korea has requested follow-on support and       services for its F-35 aircraft, engines, and weapons;       publications and technical documentation; support equipment;       spare and repair parts; repair and return; test equipment;       software delivery and support; pilot flight equipment;       personnel training equipment; U.S. Government and contractor       technical and logistics support services; and other related       elements of program support. The estimated total program cost       is $675 million. 

       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security objectives of the United States by meeting       legitimate security and defense needs of one of its closest       allies in the INDOPACOM Theater. The Republic of Korea is one       of the major political and economic powers in East Asia and       the Western Pacific and a key partner of the United States in       ensuring peace and stability in the region. 

       The proposed sale will sustain the Republic of Korea's       flight and maintenance activity. It wil1 improve       sustainability and continue support for the F-35 fleet. The       Republic of Korea will have no difficulty absorbing this       support and services into its armed forces. 

       The proposed sale of this support and services will not       alter the basic military balance in the region. 

       The principal contractor will be the Lockheed Martin       Corporation, Bethesda, MD and Pratt and Whitney, East       Hartford, CT. There are no known offset agreements proposed       in connection with this potential sale. Any offset agreement       will be defined in negotiations between the Purchaser and the       prime contractor. 

       Implementation of this proposed sale will require the       assignment of 14-26 additional U.S. contractor       representatives to the Republic of Korea. 

       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.        

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT