Arms Sales Notification


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control  Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain  proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification,  the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be  reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the  notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 

   If the  cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is  available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations  Committee, room SD-423. 

        Hon. James E. Risch,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,      U.S. Senate, Washington. DC. 

       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements       of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as       amended. we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 19-74       concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and       Acceptance to the Government of Egypt for defense articles       and services estimated to cost $2.3 billion. After this       letter is delivered to your office. we plan to issue a news       release to notify the public or this proposed sale.            Sincerely,                                                 Charles W. Hooper,                                  Lieutenant General USA, Director. 

       Enclosures.                            Transmittal No. 19-74       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended 

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Egypt. 

       (ii) Total Estimated Value: 

       Major Defense Equipment * $2.0 billion. 

       Other $.3 billion. 

       Total $2.3 billion. 

       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or       Services under Consideration for Purchase: 

       Major Defense Eguipment (MDE): 

       Eighty-eight (88) T700-GE-701D Engines (86 remanufactured,       2 spares). 

       Forty-seven (47) AN/ASQ-170 Modernized Target Acquisition       and Designation Sight/ AN/AAR-11 Modernized Pilot Night       Vision Sensors (MTADS/PNVS) (43 remanufactured, 2 new, 2       spares) 

       Forty-five (45) AAR-57 Common Missile Warning Systems       (CMWS) (43 new, 2 spares). 

       Ninety-two (92) Embedded Global Positioning Systems/      Inertial Navigation (EGI) (86 new, 6 spares). 

       Non-MDE: Also included are AN/AVR-2B Laser Detecting Sets,       AN/APX-119 transponders, Identify Friend or Foe (IFF), AN/      APN-209 radar altimeters, AN/ARN-149 Automatic Direction       Finders, UHF/VHF radio, tactical AN/ARC-201E radio, APR-39       Radar Warning Sets, Improved Data Modems IDM-401, Enhanced       Image Intensifiers EI2, Hellfire launchers M299, 2.75 inch 19       tube rocket launchers, M230 automatic guns, M230 spare gun       barrels, MT06 initiators, cartridge actuated JAU-59, training       devices, helmets, simulators, generators, transportation,       wheeled vehicles and organization equipment, spare and repair       parts, support equipment, tools and test equipment, technical       data and publications, personnel training and training       equipment, U.S. government and contractor engineering,       technical, and logistics support services, and other related       elements of logistics support. 

       (iv) Military Department: Army (EG-B-VGC). 

       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: EG-B-UTN, EG-B-UZR, EG-B-      VGO, EG-B-VGJ, EG-B-VBT 

       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed       to be Paid: None. 

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense       Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached       Annex. 

       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: May 7, 2020. 

       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control       Act.                             policy justification      Egypt--AH-64E Refurbished Apache Attack Helicopters and Related                           Eguipment and Support  

       The Government of Egypt has requested to buy equipment to       refurbish forty-three (43) AH-64E Apache attack helicopters.       This includes: eighty-eight (88) T700-GE-701D engines (86       remanufactured, 2 spares); forty-seven (47) AN/ASQ-170       Modernized Target Acquisition and Designation Sight/AN/AAR-11       Modernized Pilot Night Vision Sensors (MTADS/PNVS) (43       remanufactured, 2 new, 2 spares); forty-five (45) AAR-57       Common Missile Warning Systems (CMWS) (43 new, 2 spares); and       ninety-two (92) Embedded Global Positioning System/Inertial       Navigation Systems (EGI) (86 new, 6 spares). Also included       are AN/AVR-2B Laser Detecting Sets, AN/APX-119 transponders,       Identify Friend or Foe (IFF), AN/APN-209 radar altimeters,       AN/ARN-149 Automatic Direction Finders, UHF/VHF radio,       tactical AN/ARC-201E radio, APR-39 Radar Warning Sets,       Improved Data Modems IDM-401, Enhanced Image Intensifiers       EI2, Hellfire launchers M299, 2.75 inch 19 tube rocket       launchers, M230 automatic guns, M230 spare gun barrels, MT06       initiators, cartridge actuated JAU-59, training devices,       helmets, simulators, generators, transportation, wheeled       vehicles and organization equipment, spare and repair parts,       support equipment, tools and test equipment, technical data       and publications, personnel training and training equipment,       U.S. government and contractor engineering, technical, and       logistics support services, and other related elements of       logistics support. The estimated total cost is $2.3 billion. 

       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by helping to improve       the security of a friendly country that continues to be an       important strategic partner in the Middle East. 

       Egypt intends to use these refurbished AH-64 helicopters to       modernize its armed forces to address the shared U.S.-      Egyptian interest in countering terrorist activities       emanating from the Sinai Peninsula, which threaten Egyptian       and Israeli security and undermine regional stability. This       sale will contribute to Egypt's military goal to update its       capability while further enhancing greater interoperability       between Egypt, the U.S., and other allies. Egypt will have no       difficulty sustaining these refurbished aircraft. 

       The proposed sale will not alter the basic military balance       in the region. 

       The principal contractors involved in this program are the       Boeing Company, Meza, AZ, and Lockheed Martin Corporation,       Orlando, FL. There are no known offset agreements proposed in       connection with this potential sale. 

       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the       assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor       representatives to Egypt. 

       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness       as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 19-74       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(l) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii  

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology: 

       1. The highest classification of the AH-64 Apache Attack       Helicopter AH-64 Apache helicopter is CONFIDENTIAL and the       highest classification of data and information is SECRET. The       AH-64 Apache helicopter weapon system contains communications       and target identification equipment, navigation equipment,       aircraft survivability equipment, displays, and sensors. The       airframe itself does not contain sensitive technology;       however, the pertinent equipment listed below will be either       installed on the aircraft or included in the sale: 

       a. The AN/ASQ-170 Modernized Target Acquisition and       Designation Sight/AN/AAQ-11 Pilot Night Vision Sensor (MT       ADS/PNVS) provides day, night, and limited adverse weather       target information, as well as night navigation capabilities.       The PNVS provides thermal imaging that permits nap-of-the-      earth flight to, from, and within the battle area, while TADS       provides the co-pilot gunner with search, detection,       recognition, and designation by means of Direct View Optics       (DVO), EI(2) television, and Forward Looking Infrared (FLIR)       sighting systems that may be used singularly or in       combinations. 

       b. The AAR-57 Common Missile Warning System (CMWS) detects       energy emitted by threat missiles in-flight, evaluates       potential false alarm emitters in the environment, declares       validity of threat and selects appropriate countermeasures.       The CMWS consists of an Electronic Control Unit (ECU),       Electro-Optic Missile Sensors (EOMSs), and Sequencer and       Improved Countermeasures Dispenser (ICMD). 

       c. The AN/APR-39 Radar Signal Detecting Set is a system       that provides warnings of radar-directed air defense threats       and allows appropriate countermeasures. This is the 1553       databus-compatible configuration. 

       d. The AN/AVR-2B Laser Warning Set is a passive laser       warning system that receives,       processes, and displays threat information resulting from       aircraft illumination by lasers on the multi-functional       display. 

       e. The Embedded Global Positioning System/Inertial       Navigation System plus Multi-Mode Receiver (EGI+MMR). The       aircraft has two EGIs which use internal accelerometers, rate       gyro measurements, and external sensor measurements to       estimate the aircraft state, provides aircraft flight and       position data to aircraft systems. The EGI is a velocity-      aided, strap down, ring laser gyro based inertial unit. The       EGI unit also houses a GPS receiver. 

       2. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain       knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the       information could be used to develop countermeasures that       might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the       development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities. 

       3. A determination has been made that Egypt can provide       substantially the same degree of protection of this       technology as the U.S. Government. This proposed sale is       necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and       national security objectives outlined in the Policy       Justification. Moreover, the benefits to be derived from this       sale, as outlined in the Policy Justification, outweigh the       potential damage that could result if the sensitive       technology were revealed to unauthorized persons. 

       4. All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal has been authorized for release and export to       Egypt.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT