Chairman Risch Announces Foreign Relations Committee Membership Changes


U.S. Senator Jim Risch (R-Idaho), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today announced committee membership changes for the second session of the 116th Congress.

"I am glad to welcome Senator Perdue back to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for the second session of the 116th Congress," said Risch. "I am also glad to announce that Senator Barrasso will assume the role of chairman of the Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, International Operations, and Bilateral International Development. During my first year as chairman, the committee made notable and substantive efforts to improve the lives of people both at home and across the globe. I look forward to building off that momentum in the coming months to continue advancing our committee priorities."

The committee has been joined by one new member in the second session of the 116th Congress, Senator David Perdue (R-Ga.). Remaining on the committee are Senators Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Mitt Romney (R-Utah), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), Todd Young (R-Ind.), and Ted Cruz (R-Texas).

Senator Perdue has joined the following subcommittees: Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health Policy, and the Subcommittee on Multilateral International Development, Multilateral Institutions, and International Economic, Energy, and Environmental Policy.

Established in 1816 as one of the original standing committees of the Senate, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has jurisdiction over legislation concerning the conduct of U.S. foreign policy, including foreign assistance, treaties, and declarations of war. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee also is responsible for oversight of the U.S. State Department and review of executive branch nominations that carry out U.S. diplomacy, including secretary of state and U.S. ambassadorships.