Chairman Risch Applauds Committee Passage of USAGM Nominee, Additional Legislation, Resolutions


U.S. Senator Jim Risch (R-Idaho), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today held a committee business meeting during which members approved four bills, 11 resolutions, and one nominee.

"I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together to pass a number of significant pieces of legislation and one nomination this morning," said Risch. "I am glad the committee was able to finally approve Mr. Pack's nomination to be CEO of the U.S. Agency for Global Media, a role which has been empty for far too long, and I am glad he will now move to the full Senate for a vote.

"In order to enhance Israel's security and strengthen our bilateral relationship, the committee passed the United States-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act today. The United States remains committed to its partnership and alliance with Israel.

"I also welcome today's passage of two resolutions reaffirming the United States' partnership with ASEAN -- an institution that is key to upholding a free and open Indo-Pacific. Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, it is crucial that our partnership continues to grow. I support the administration's efforts to collaborate with ASEAN and its member states on pressing global health challenges. It is also crucial that the United States continue to invest in human capital development across Southeast Asia to foster the leaders of the future, including through the Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative.

"Finally, The U.S. Department of State has faced unprecedented challenges over the last several months as the spread of COVID-19 caused tens of thousands of American citizens to be trapped in every region of the world. I am pleased the committee has passed a bipartisan resolution commending the career professionals at the Department of State for their significant efforts to repatriate more than 85,000 Americans. We are all grateful for the extraordinary work they have done."

The full list of legislation and nominees approved during today's business meeting is below:

NOMINATIONS

Mr. Michael Pack, of Maryland, to be Chief Executive Officer of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the term of three years.

LEGISLATION

S.238, Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Act.

S.712, Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostate-Taking Accountability Act.

S.3176, United States-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act of 2020.

H.R.192, Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership Act.

S.Res.567, Commending career professionals at the Department of State for their extensive efforts to repatriate United States Citizens and legal permanent residents during the COVID-19 pandemic.

S.Res.148, A resolution supporting efforts by the Government of Colombia to pursue peace and regional stability.

S.Res.392, A resolution recognizing the importance of the Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative to the relationship between the United States and the member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and to advancing the policy of the United States in the Indo-Pacific region.

S.Res.406, A resolution recognizing that for 50 years, the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and its ten members, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam, have worked with the United States toward stability, prosperity, and peace in Southeast Asia, and expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States will continue to remain a strong, reliable, and active partner in the ASEAN region.

S.Res.454, A resolution calling for the immediate release of Cuban democracy activist Jose Daniel Ferrer and commending the efforts of Jose Daniel Ferrer to promote human rights and international freedoms in Cuba.

S.Res.502, A resolution recognizing the 75th anniversary of the amphibious landing on the Japanese island of Iwo Jima during World War II and the raisings of the flag of the United States on Mount Suribachi.

S.Res.511, A resolution supporting the role of the United States in helping save the lives of children and protecting the health of people in developing countries with vaccines and immunization through GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance.

S.Res.523, A resolution recognizing the 199th anniversary of the independence of Greece and celebrating democracy in Greece and United States.

S.Res.525, A resolution expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States should continue to support the people of Nicaragua in their peaceful efforts to promote the restoration of democracy and the defense of human rights, and use the tools under United States law to increase political and economic pressure on the government of Daniel Ortega.

S.Res.533, A resolution supporting the goals of International Women's Day.

S.Res.542, A resolution commemorating the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Dachau concentration camp during World War II.