Executive Session


  With relation to the complaint that my colleague has just made that  this nomination hasn't been adequately vetted, this nomination was made  2 years ago tomorrow, June 4, 2018. 

  Mr. Pack came before the committee. He has been before the committee  twice. He has produced numerous documents due to the complaints of the  Democrats on the committee. He has been looked at by the White House.  His business dealings have been looked at by the Justice Department, by  the Internal Revenue Service, and he has been cleared of anything. 

  The U.S. Agency for Global Media is an important agency because it is  charged with supporting international broadcasting outlets around the  world in the face of the kinds of misinformation and things that are  put out by other countries that are untrue. 

  The real reason for the objection to Mr. Pack's nomination is that  this man is a patriot. This is a man who makes documentary films that  portray the greatness of America. 

  Anyone who disagrees with that ought to spend the time to look at the  documentary he just made, which was run on public TV within the last 30  days, regarding Clarence Thomas and what he had to go through to get on  the Supreme Court. It was a superb representation of what happened in  that. If you watch that, you will see why the Democrats are absolutely  opposed to Mr. Pack. 

  But don't take our word for this. RealClearPolitics, after this whole  thing started, did its own investigation into this, and they noted that  the business arrangements of Mr. Pack used to make these documentaries  are very common for documentary filmmakers and, like Pack, filmmakers  and television producers also use nonprofits to collect contributions  from donors and then set up a for-profit company to make these films.  This is exactly what Senator Merkley was objecting to. 

  Having said that, they went on to interview others, including  attorneys and everything else. Another producer with no business ties  to Pack told RealClearPolitics ``that he set up the same two-pronged  way of funding films last year on the advice of counsel, who told him  it was standard operating procedure.'' 

  This has been looked at. It has been reviewed. Look, the committee  has had this in its hands for almost 2 years. I have been really  patient. Every time that I set this for a hearing and they wanted more  time, I let that go. 

  Finally, the last time, I was really, really disappointed in the  Democrats' engagement of the political system, enjoining it with the  potential criminal justice system, to try to stop this. 

  The night before the business meeting, I got a letter from the  attorney general for the District of Columbia--obviously a partisan  individual--that says that he is going to look at this and, therefore,  he is investigating it. The Democrats then said: Well, we can't go  ahead with this because he is being investigated by this partisan  person from DC. 

  Look, I am on the Ethics Committee. There are six of us. Half of us  sit on the Foreign Relations Committee. In every instance I can think  of on the Ethics Committee where the U.S. Justice Department has asked  us to stand down because they were doing a legitimate criminal  investigation, we have done so. 

  In this particular case, it was a partisan agency of the District of  Columbia that noticed that they were going to do this investigation. 

  I started my career as a prosecutor. I have always felt that the  justice system and the prosecuting system should be above politics, but  to get a partisan individual to send a letter--after 2 years--on the  eve of the business meeting, that he was going to open a business  meeting again, after many delays, was just too much. 

  But I did delay the business meeting for 1 week, and after that 1  week we had a business meeting. The Democrats made motion after motion  to delay. Again, I was as patient as I could be. 

  I said during these motions that we were only going to go on so long  with this. Finally, as was noted by some of the attorneys in the room,  had this occurrence happened in a court of law, the attorneys would  have been held in contempt of court for making repetitive motions that  were obviously delay motions and done spuriously. 

  So, after the eighth motion, I declared the motions out of order, and  we went to what democracies do. We went to a vote. To no one's  surprise, it was a straight party-line vote: 12 votes to send Mr.  Pack's confirmation to the floor for confirmation and 10 votes against  that. 

  This is a democracy. The way we do this is we have disagreements,  particularly when it comes to political matters such as this, but to  try to engage the justice system in this I find just really, really  disheartening. 

  We are going to have a vote on Mr. Pack, and it is very simple. If  you don't want Mr. Pack to take this job, then you vote no, and if you  do, then you say yes. But this has been investigated back and forth.  Regardless of the breast-beating and the rending of garments over what  an awful person he is and how awful his businesses have been, keep in  mind, this is all politics. If you see the kind of work that he has  done, he makes America proud when he makes a documentary. 

  So I would object to the resolution that has been proposed. 

  First of all, let me commend my good friend from Illinois for  bringing this. I know he is frustrated, as all of us are, with what has  happened with this pandemic that came out of China and swept the world  and caused all the grief that it has for America and for every other  country on the planet. 

  It is important to note, I think, as we start, that the United States  has been the single most generous donor of global health assistance  around the world. We do hear people, from time to time, criticize the  foreign assistance that America gives out. Probably the pandemic that  we have just gone through, with this COVID-19 from China, is the best  indication that there is for why certain foreign assistance is so  crucial. This foreign assistance we give in the healthcare area is  given, amongst other reasons, to keep those things from spreading to  the United States. 

  Last year alone, we, the United States of America, we American  taxpayers, provided over $9 billion in global health assistance through  the State Department and USAID. That $9 billion does not account for  the amount that the CDC spent in global health efforts. So it is well  over $9 billion that we Americans have put out there. 

  We strengthen health systems; we train health workers; we build  supply chains; we connect health networks; we support cutting-edge  research and innovation; and, yes, develop and expand access to  therapeutics and vaccines, which is what my good friend from Illinois  is addressing here when it comes to vaccines. I am going to talk about  that in a minute. 

  We led the international efforts to combat AIDS, malaria,  tuberculosis, polio, Ebola, and other viruses that came out of China.  We are the single largest donor to the Global Fund and U.N. agencies,  including UNICEF. 

  I hope that there isn't a suggestion that we are withdrawing from  collaborative efforts to develop a COVID-19 vaccine because we did not  directly participate in the EU pledging conference. In reality, leading  partners in that effort include the Global Fund and Gavi, where we are  the major donors, so we will be participating in the collaborative  effort to develop vaccines for COVID-19. 

  I think it is also important to note that the President has made a  historic--a historic 3-year pledge and is strongly supporting Gavi's  COVID-19 efforts. Gavi stands for the global alliance for vaccines. It  was essentially the brainchild of Bill Gates. He and Melinda, of  course, in my judgment, are on an equal level with Mother Teresa for  what they have done with global health. We are participating with Gavi  and, like I said, the President has made a historic 3-year pledge to  that. 

  I appreciate the feelings the good Senator from Illinois has about  the President of the United States, and he did indeed put the brakes on  WHO because he felt there were shortcomings with WHO when it came to  WHO's work with China and their failure really to get after China at  the very beginning of this to do what it really should have done. 

  I am going to object to this resolution not because the effort by the  good Senator from Illinois isn't well-taken. It is well-taken. We had a  similar one 2 weeks ago and they came out here and objected to it and  the Senator is frustrated because he feels we should be doing more. 

  First of all, during the 2 weeks--we obviously were gone for 1 week-- but let me tell you what was going on during that week and the  subsequent week. I promised, at that time, that the Foreign Relations  Committee was going to take this issue on because it is of such  importance that we don't go through this again, and there is a lot more  that we can do than simply pass a resolution. 

  It is my ambition to create a very significant piece of legislation  that will be bipartisan, that creates a vehicle to address a fast- moving virus like this. We can all argue about the WHO and what they  did or didn't do, their connections to China and that sort of thing,  but that is not going to help us as we go forward. What we do know is  that WHO has done good work in the past. They were a really good  partner with us, as the Senator knows, when it came to implementing  PEPFAR and doing great things in the battle against AIDS. They were  very helpful with Ebola and very helpful with smallpox, but this was a  different virus. This was  a house on fire. WHO is simply not, at this time, geared to be a  fireman. When the fire bell rings, we need a vehicle to address a  virus. 

  This is going to happen again because in the Wuhan district, there is  a vast bat population, and they are carrying about 2,000 different  species of virus. Unfortunately, and frighteningly, we don't know what  all those viruses can do. Heaven help us if we get one out of there  that is worse than COVID-19 that we have had, but we need a fire  department that can address this. 

  I hope we are going to be able to engage China. If not, we are going  to have to find ways of dealing with this. Where is that vehicle going  to be carried? Is it going to be a new part of WHO? Is it going to be  part of the CDC? Is it going to be a new international organization? I  can't answer that, but I can tell you this. On a bipartisan basis,  Senator Murphy, who is also on the Foreign Relations Committee, and I  have introduced a bill to address a number of these things, including  the vaccine question and including working on getting a vehicle to do  what I have described. 

  I think everyone is working on this in good faith. The bill that will  be introduced is written on paper. It is not written on stone. We are  wide open to suggestions as to what kind of a vehicle it is that will  address this like firemen and not in a slower fashion like other health  challenges have presented. 

  Senator Murphy and I have had a number of discussions on this. We are  both committed to reach the goals that I know Senator Durbin and that I  think this whole body wants to reach. We are going to hold a series of  hearings as to how to do this, how best to do it, how it should be  funded, how it should be organized, and how the management should take  place. What it is not going to focus on is the finger-pointing for what  happened after COVID escaped from a bat into a human being in Wuhan,  China, and what happened after it left Wuhan, China, and went around  the world. We have really good information on that already.  

  There is going to be a lot of other investigations and hearings and  that sort of thing. We want to talk about, what do we do when this  happens in the future? How can we create an agency that just like the  fire department, when the bell rings, they pull their boots on; they  slide down the pole; they get on the truck; and they go put out the  fire. 

  I guarantee Senator Durbin that we will continue to work on this. My  staff tells me--and I am glad to hear that Mr. Durbin's staff is  working with them on the language on this particular resolution, and I  thank the Senator for that and I invite him and commit to him that we  will work with him as we develop this new legislation and as we go  through the hearings. 

  So, again, please don't take this as combative. It is not. It is  intended, in the best spirit, to help us all move forward to get to a  piece of very significant legislation that will hopefully take us  forward like PEPFAR did and as some of the other monumental pieces of  legislation did that can address this incredibly difficult situation  and hurtful situation not only for America but for the world. 

  And I state to the Senator that I invite your participation,  encourage your participation, and assure you that we will work in good  faith to try to reach these goals. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, would the Senator yield for a few moments? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. RISCH. Thank you. I appreciate these comments. There is nothing  that the Senator just stated that I disagree with. One point, in  passing, and I say this in the spirit of trying to get to the objective  that I laid out, and that is, it is my intent to engage the second  branch of government, not only the agencies that are responsible for  this--Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, the State  Department, USAID--but also the White House. The President has to have  a role here. He has obviously undertaken the role. I have already  spoken to him about this. I intend to have other lengthy conversations  about this. I am engaging the President to assist us. This is not a  partisan issue. 

  As Mr. Durbin has pointed out, and rightfully so, this virus doesn't  care whether you are a Republican or Democrat; it doesn't care whether  you are an American or not an American. It doesn't care if you are a  President of the United States or, in the case of some countries around  the world, a member of the highest authority there is in that country.  The virus just doesn't care. 

  In order for us to accomplish this, it is going to be a bill--it is  not going to be a resolution--and it has to be approved by the second  branch of government. They fully understand what we are trying to do  here. They have committed their resources and their input to this, and  I am convinced they are working in good faith, just as everyone here  is, to try to reach these goals of doing something better in the future  than what we have experienced just recently. 

  Senator, again, thank you for your attention to this. Thank you for  your input, and I commend to you that we will work together on this as  we go forward 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT