Gardner, Markey, and Risch Introduce Resolution Congratulating President of Taiwan


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia Policy, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, along with U.S. Senators Ed Markey (D-MA), and Jim Risch (R-ID) introduced a resolution today congratulating Tsai Ing-wen on her reelection as President of Taiwan and calling on the Administration to send a high-level delegation for President Tsai's inauguration ceremony on May 20, 2020.

 

"I extend my warmest congratulations to Tsai Ing-wen, Taiwan's fourth democratically elected leader, on winning a second presidential term. It was an honor to host President Tsai in Denver last year, and it's been a privilege working closely with her to advance the friendship between our nations during my multiple visits to Taipei,"said Senator Gardner. "As China continues its aggressive campaign to delegitimize Taiwan, it's critically important for the United States to reaffirm our support for Taiwan's resilient and vibrant democracy, and to further grow the bonds of friendship between the people of Taiwan and the United States."

 

"I applauded President Tsai Ing-wen's re-election victory in January, which affirmed the Taiwanese people's embrace of the rule of law and of democracy. Taiwan continues to be a strong partner to the United States, and we should make every effort to increase Taiwan's participation in international organizations and push back against China's efforts to diplomatically isolate the island nation. Taiwan's 32 million citizens have much to offer, including halting the spread of pandemics, particularly if China no longer worked to shut it out from international organizations. The United States can and should send a strong message of Taiwan's rightful place in the world by sending a Cabinet level official to President Tsai's inauguration this May," said Senator Markey.

 

"I am proud to join my colleagues in commending Taiwan for holding free and fair elections this past January. Taiwan's commitment to freedom, democracy, and a free market economy is an example for the entire Indo-Pacific region," said Senator Risch. "As Taiwan faces relentless Chinese pressure, I remain committed to advocating for its inclusion and active participation in international organizations, including the World Health Organization. Additionally, I fully support exploring a free trade agreement between Taiwan and the United States. The United States values our important partnership with Taiwan, and I look forward to continuing our work together on shared interests and priorities in the months and years ahead."