Risch Applauds Committee Passage of USMCA, Four Nominees


U.S. Senator Jim Risch (R-Idaho), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today held a committee business meeting to markup H.R.5430, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act (USMCA), and four ambassadorial nominees.

"After months of discussions between members of Congress and the administration, I am glad our committee has done its part to advance this important, bipartisan legislation," said Risch. "The USMCA strengthens North American trade relations and the international competitiveness of our country and our two biggest trading partners. It is in our national interest that our closest neighbors and trade partners continue to chart a path toward prosperity, which USMCA facilitates.

"Free and fair trade is vital for Idaho's agricultural economy, and the USMCA will provide our farmers and ranchers with a trade agreement that opens markets for commodities like dairy products, while providing much needed certainty. I look forward to voting on this critical legislation in the full Senate soon.

"I'm also glad our committee voted to approve four nominees to serve in various ambassadorial roles around the globe. I appreciate my colleagues' bipartisan efforts to continue to fill vacancies at the Department of State."

The full list of legislation and nominees approved during today's business meeting is below.

LEGISLATION

H.R. 5430, United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act

NOMINATIONS

The Honorable Todd C. Chapman, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federative Republic of Brazil

Mr. John Hennessey-Niland, of Illinois, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Palau

Ms. Dorothy Shea, of North Carolina, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lebanese Republic

Dr. Donald Wright, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania