Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699579/consolidated-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding  time.

Madam Speaker, as ranking member of the Transportation, Housing and  Urban Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee, I rise in strong  support of this bipartisan legislation in large measure because it  freezes funding for the Department of Homeland Security at its current  level while allowing for several days, 10 to be exact, for us to  continue to zero in on that segment of the legislation and hopefully  reach a bipartisan agreement.

We have already reached bipartisan agreements on five other sections,  and one of those in this bill includes $113 billion in discretionary  spending for transportation and housing programs and reflects a renewed  commitment to addressing the affordability crisis and improving the  safety of our transportation systems.

For housing, the bill prevents the eviction of more than 4 million  low-income households served through HUD's rental assistance programs,  including those currently served by Section 8 and public housing.

The bill reinforces efforts to combat homelessness by increasing  funding for homeless assistance grants by $366 million.

It protects investments for mayors and Governors by providing $3.3  billion for the popular Community Development Block Grants program.

It includes $58 million for housing counseling assistance for renters  and first-time home buyers and $8 billion to continue legal aid for  evictions assistance.

For transportation, the bill invests in the safety of the flying  public by increasing FAA operations by nearly $230  million, enabling the hiring of 2,500 new air traffic controllers. It  increases funding for air traffic control towers and facilities by 26  percent above fiscal year 2025.

The bill also protects investments for continuing Amtrak service  along the Northeast Corridor and national network by providing $2.4  billion.

The bill also includes $100 million for the 2026 World Cup and $94  million for the 2028 Olympics to help transit agencies manage local  transportation in support of games across the country.

Madam Speaker, this year's Transportation-Housing bill will provide  greater economic certainty to communities across the country and  improve the day-to-day lives of everyday people. I urge my colleagues  to support this legislation.