Fighting Voter Suppression


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689339/fighting-voter-suppression


Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding to me,  and I thank her so much for leading this Special Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, I join with my colleague from Virginia to express my  disagreement with the misplaced priorities of the Republican majority.  The American people have made clear that they want their elected  leaders to be focused on improving the economy and lowering costs.

In this area, by any measure, the Trump administration and the  Republican majorities here in Congress are off to a very poor start.  Projected economic growth is down along with Americans' 401(k)'s.  Inflation and expectations for inflation in the coming months are up.  Last week, discussing the release of higher-than-expected inflation  data, one economic analyst observed ``the preliminary signs of  stagflation pressures.''

Now, I am old enough to remember the stagflation of the 1970s: low  growth combined with high inflation. It was devastating then, and it  would be devastating now. Unsurprisingly, consumer sentiment is down  substantially.

Much of this economic weakness is the result of the Trump  administration's reckless, indiscriminate, and nonstrategic tariffs,  which are expected to raise costs for Americans trying to make ends  meet.

To take one example, The Washington Post reported that the recently  announced tariffs on automobiles are likely to raise prices most  significantly for the most affordable cars.

The President, however, when asked over the weekend about automobile  price increases replied: ``I couldn't care less.''

The Secretary of the Treasury from my home State of South Carolina  was doing quite well financially as a hedge fund manager doesn't think  the American people care either. To quote him: ``Access to cheap goods  is not the essence of the American Dream.''

Clearly, Mr. Trump and Mr. Bessent have never struggled to make ends  meet from paycheck to paycheck and appear to view those who do with  disdain.

With our Nation's economy in such a precarious state and 2 weeks of  session left before a 2-week recess, is the Republican majority taking  urgent action to bolster Americans' finances, boost growth, and restore  confidence? Regrettably, they are not.

Instead, among other ill-advised items, they are tackling the so- called problem of noncitizens voting, which is already illegal. I say  so-called problem because the Bipartisan Policy Center's analysis of  The Heritage Foundation database--I repeat, a Heritage Foundation  database--found just 77 instances of noncitizen voting between 1999 and  2023. That is 77 instances out of hundreds of millions of votes cast  over a 25-year period.

The Bipartisan Policy Center goes on to say: ``Illegal voting,  including by noncitizens, is routinely investigated and prosecuted by  the appropriate authorities, and there is no evidence that noncitizen  voting has ever been significant enough to impact an election's  outcome.'' That is from The Heritage Foundation.

If my Republican colleagues are truly concerned about the illegal  overturning of election outcomes, they should work to prevent a repeat  of the current President's attempt to overturn the 2020 election, which  culminated in the deadly attack on this building on January 6, 2021.  They shouldn't waste the House's time on this legislation.

Worse than a waste of time, the bill being brought to the floor this  week would disenfranchise eligible citizens by imposing onerous  requirements that many could not meet.

For example, as you just heard, married women who have changed their  last names could not use their birth certificates with their maiden  names as proof of citizenship. Neither could those born to military  parents stationed abroad.

While many of my Republican colleagues may be globetrotting jet- setters, many of my constituents in South Carolina don't have  passports. A $100 passport fee is a lot of money for many people in my  district--in this case, an exorbitant poll tax.

This bill is only the latest Republican attempt to erect barriers to  the ballot box, following recent attempts to make it more difficult to  vote by mail or by ballot drop boxes. Just last week, the President  signed a sweeping executive order with several onerous provisions that  would risk disenfranchising millions of Americans.

Democratic bills, like the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement  Act and the Freedom to Vote Act, would stop these attacks on our  democracy and ensure every American is able to cast a meaningful vote.

Mr. Speaker, when the American economy is on the precipice, why are  my Republican colleagues focused on making it more difficult to vote?

While I possess no special insight into their motivations, I would  argue that the two are connected. Republicans don't want to face  democratic accountability for their governing failures, so they are  trying to curb the electoral power of the struggling Americans who  their destructive economic agenda is harming the most.

I am a little bit of a student of history. What we are seeing right  now evokes the dark periods of the late 1800s.

During the gilded age, low-income Black and White Americans across  the South came together in pursuit of economic justice. The economic  power structure responded not by expanding economic opportunities but  by restricting the right to vote. The result was Jim Crow 1.0, which  deprived generations of African Americans of the right to vote, the  right to choose leaders who could ease their economic burdens and  expand opportunities for their families.

Mr. Speaker, after these Supreme Court interpretations and these  actions by these southern legislatures, let me tell you what happened  in South Carolina. When more than 50 percent of the population was  African American, they had zero representation here in the Congress. In  fact, the last African American left Congress in 1897, and there was  not another African American in this body until I took the oath of  office 95 years later. That is what happened with Jim Crow 1.0, and  what we are seeing happening now is Jim Crow 2.0.

I am very fond of quoting George Santayana's admonition: Those who do  not remember the past are condemned to repeat it.

I worry that we are dangerously close to repeating this democratic  decline amidst economic disruption. However, heeding the lessons of  history, I believe there is still time to prevent it.

As we fight against Republican attempts to diminish our democracy,  like the bill on the floor this week, we must deploy this democracy to  demand that they address the issues people actually care about. We must  make our voices heard on this floor, at townhalls, over the phone, at  peaceful protests, and at the ballot box.

We must make clear that Republicans must stop the Trump agenda of  economic destruction. They must take action to lower costs. They must  abandon their efforts to take healthcare  away from millions to fund tax cuts for billionaires.

It is early in this fight, but our initial efforts are starting to  yield results. Republicans fear for their majority, and they should. It  is my hope that this fear will prompt my Republican colleagues to  rethink their agenda for purposes of electoral self-preservation. If  they fail to do so, the American people, as has happened before, will  rightfully rethink who they elect so that we can preserve our economy  and our democracy.

I will close, Mr. Speaker, with a little story from the 1950s. I  graduated high school in 1957. As I was about to graduate, one of my  teachers assigned me an essay to write. The essay was simply to share  what I wanted to do after graduation, which was 3 months away.

When I wrote the essay, she came to me several days later and told me  that she had read my essay and was very disappointed in what I wrote. I  thought she had problems with the style, or maybe I didn't get the  subjects and verbs to agree.

When I went into her office, she said to me she was disappointed  because I said in my essay that, upon graduating high school, I would  be leaving my native South Carolina, and I wrote why. It was because I  was a college student, and when my parents got the right to cast an  effective vote--both of them college graduates--the Democratic primary  in South Carolina was a private club, a White-only private club.

These were the kinds of laws that came out of the Slaughter-House  Cases and Plessy v. Ferguson, the same kind of laws that are being  signaled now in the Supreme Court in the Shelby v. Holder decision.  Just read it and you will see that what Justice Roberts wrote in that  decision could have been lifted from those decisions of the 1870s. Jim  Crow 2.0 is upon us.

Mr. Speaker, that bill is coming to this floor. If that bill is  passed by this body, we will be taking another step toward  disenfranchising people going forward.

It is a sin and a shame that this body in this year will initiate the  opportunity to turn the clock back to revisit those years that we  thought were gone by.

As we face this great threat to our economy and our democracy, I  would hope that we will get a spine, that we will exert the authority  of this body, and that we will say to anybody, in low places or high  places, that we will not turn the clock back.