Health Disparities in Minority Communities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690244/health-disparities-in-minority-communities


Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise today to  anchor this CBC Special Order along with my distinguished colleague,  Representative Jennifer McClellan.

For the next 60 minutes, members of the Congressional Black Caucus  will have an opportunity to speak directly to the American people on  the issue of minority health, an issue of great importance to the  Congressional Black Caucus, Congress, the constituents we represent,  and all Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I rise along with several colleagues of the  Congressional Black Caucus, who Members will hear from tonight. We are  here to discuss the timely issue of health disparities as we approach  the end of 2025 Minority Health Month.

There is a long, storied history of poor health outcomes in minority  communities. African Americans have lower life expectancy, higher rates  of infant mortality, increased instances of maternal mortality, higher  rates of chronic illnesses, and more frequent cancer diagnoses. Every  American deserves to have access to quality, affordable healthcare and  lifesaving prescription medications.

This is our first day back after spending time in our congressional  districts and conducting face-to-face interactions with our  constituents. As is often the case, our just concluded district work  period encompassed the sacred observances of Passover and Easter.

For those of us who celebrate the Easter side of that equation, we  tend to profess pride in being Matthew 25 Christians. We often express  adherence to verse 45, which admonishes: ``Whatever you did not do for  one of the least of these, you did not do for me.''

Mr. Speaker, there are a lot of lessons to be found in chapter 25 of  Matthew long before one gets down to verse 45. There are lessons on the  importance of being prepared, the importance of providing service, and  utilizing good judgment.

Ours is a great country, and among the things that make us great is  our system of healthcare.

Speaking at a 1966 healthcare conference, Martin Luther King, Jr.,  observed: ``Of all forms of inequality, injustice in health is the most  shocking and inhumane.'' Many of these inequalities are, in part,  attributable to the disparities in access to healthcare.

Disparities in health outcomes were starkly apparent during the  COVID-19 pandemic. Communities of color experienced higher rates of  fatality and were often at increased risk for the comorbidities that  led to more serious illnesses from COVID-19.

My Democratic colleagues and I, in partnership with the previous  administration, wrote and passed legislation such as the bipartisan  infrastructure bill to expand access to broadband and provide  telehealth services to rural and underserved communities.

We also passed legislation to cap the out-of-pocket costs of insulin  at $35 for seniors through the Inflation Reduction Act.

We also passed legislation to cap the annual cost of copayments for  Medicare recipients to $2,000 per year.

My late wife was a four-shots-a-day diabetic. She battled that  chronic disease and its by-products for over 30 years. I know what a  serious financial strain essential diabetes medication can be for those  families who are fortunate to have insurance. Yet, what about those  among us who are less fortunate?

In the last several years, we have made significant progress toward  making one of the greatnesses of this country, healthcare, more  accessible and affordable for all. Yet, that progress is now in  jeopardy and will be dismantled and derailed by the budget being  proposed by my Republican colleagues.

Sadly, neither the President, nor my Republican colleagues seem  willing to consider the harmful impacts of pausing these programs or  the harms that steep cuts to programs like Medicaid will have on both  the economic well-being and health outcomes of millions of American  families. They are steadily moving forward with their plan to slash  these crucial programs by billions of dollars while, at the same time,  proposing big tax cuts for those who can afford to pay for quality  healthcare and lifesaving medications.

On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon Baines Johnson signed into law the  Social Security Amendments of 1965. Those amendments established  Medicare, a health insurance program for the elderly; and Medicaid, a  health insurance program for people with limited incomes.

Today, nearly 80 million Americans receive healthcare through  Medicaid, which provides critical care throughout all stages of life.  It covers childbirth and nursing home care and everything in between.

In my congressional district, there are 180,678 people on Medicaid.  In South Carolina, it is called Healthy Connections. This number  includes 105,256 children under the age of 19 and 20,000 seniors over  65, and this is just my district.

Over 1 million South Carolinians are enrolled in Medicaid. In South  Carolina, Medicaid covers four out of every nine children, five of  every eight nursing home residents, three out of every 10 working-age  adults with disabilities, and one out of every six adults ages 19  through 64. These individuals are at risk of losing their healthcare  under the Republicans' budget plans.

My Republican colleagues have been directed to cut $880 billion from  the Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees Medicaid. Please  understand that $880 billion is just the floor. Some of them want to  cut more.

The only way they can reach their goal is to gut Medicaid. No matter  what they may say to their wavering Members to secure their votes and  to their vulnerable constituents to prevent them from objecting, this  plan will cut taxes for the rich, bankrupt the middle class, and  shortchange the poor.

Earlier, I quoted Scripture taken from the Book of Matthew, but as  one might imagine, my favorite book in the Bible is the Book of James,  not just because of my given name but because of its lessons. In James'  epistle, he writes that when people are hurting and in need, it is not  enough to offer platitudes like thoughts and prayers. We have a moral  obligation to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and provide shelter  for the homeless.

I believe that if James were writing this epistle today, he would  decry the shocking injustices in healthcare suffered by our most  vulnerable and the friction that suffering often engenders.

My father was a fundamentalist minister who often used secular  thoughts to teach life lessons to his three sons. I have thought about  one of those lessons at the townhalls I held during our Passover and  Easter work period.

The lesson came to us one day when my two brothers and I were  accompanying my dad to a--well, let's call  him an automobile mechanic. Back when I was growing up in the little  town of Sumter, everybody had a neighborhood mechanic, and everybody  knew who that mechanic was because he was the guy with the chinaberry  tree with the pulley hanging out of it.

On this particular day, as my dad waited to have his car worked on,  Mr. Singleton, the mechanic, hooked the pulley to the front end of that  car and began to raise it so he could get under it and get it running  for another week. Just as he started to lift the car, my two brothers  and I started playing near the car. My dad said to us: ``Sons, I have  no idea how strong this chain is. Why don't you all go across the field  and play? This chain may pop, and one of you might get hurt.''

Well, we did go across the field to play, and we weren't gone long  before we got into a little discussion. Now, some people looking at it  might call it a fight, but it was a physical discussion.

We didn't know it, but my dad was watching us. After he thought that  discussion had gone on long enough, he called the three of us over to  him and stood us in front of him. He had in his hands a piece of cord  string.

My dad gave that piece of cord string first to my youngest brother,  Charles, and said, ``Charles, I want you to pop this string.'' Charles  struggled, and he couldn't pop it.

He then took it and gave it to my brother, John, and he said, ``John,  I want you to pop this string. You are 2 years older. You are stronger.  You pop it.'' John struggled, and he couldn't pop it.

He then took it back, and he gave it to me. He said, ``Now, James,  you are the oldest. You are the strongest. You pop the string.'' I  struggled. I couldn't pop it.

He then took it back and placed it in his palm, and he began to rub  his hands together. The more he rubbed, the more friction he created.  The more friction he created, the more unraveled that cord string  became. It was not long before that cord string was in three pieces.

My dad then took those three pieces, gave one to Charles, one to  John, and one to me, and he said, ``Now, sons, pop the string.'' With  little effort, all three of us popped the strings.

He said, ``Now, sons, I want this to be a lesson to you for as long  as you live. Don't you let the little disagreements that crop up among  you cause so much friction until it separates you, because if you do,  the world will pop you apart and you may never know why.''

I thought about that lesson as I went to these townhall meetings. The  actions that are being taken by my Republican colleagues and this  administration are providing all kinds of opportunities for friction to  be created among us.

Providing tax breaks to the wealthy while cutting billions of dollars  of lifesaving healthcare for millions of Americans will cause undue  friction in our healthcare system and only serve to divide us.

Mr. Speaker, our healthcare system is by no means perfect. We have a  great deal of work to do to improve the system for everyone and to  reduce disparities, but we must start by following what we often call  the Hippocratic oath to first do no harm. Do no harm to Social  Security. Do no harm to Medicare. Do no harm to Medicaid and the other  bedrocks of our public health system, like the Affordable Care Act.

Most persons want more than promises. They want results. They want  everyone to have access to affordable housing, reliable energy,  adequate education, and, yes, quality healthcare, all those things that  make this country a great country.

Mr. Speaker, I am now pleased to yield to my distinguished colleague  from Illinois (Ms. Kelly).

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her comments.

McClellan), my co-anchor for this Special Order.

Mr. CLYBURN.  Pressley).

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her comments.  It is my pleasure now to yield to the gentleman from Alabama (Mr.  Figures).

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Figures for his comments.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, thank you very much. I am going to take  just a couple minutes to thank all of my colleagues from the  Congressional Black Caucus for being here this evening.

To reiterate a little of what we have heard here today, I represent a  congressional district in South Carolina that includes ZIP Code 29203.  It happens to be the ZIP Code that I live in, Columbia, South Carolina.  My house in Columbia is about 5 or 6 minutes from the site of the new  medical school of the University of South Carolina. I represent the  Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston. The ZIP Code I live  in, where that new medical school will be located in, 29203, is the  home of the highest percentage of amputations because of the late  detection of diabetes. There is a reason for that. There is a reason.  We all know what that reason is.

Mr. Speaker, as a Congress and as a country, we must do the things  that are necessary to remove these disparities. With people living  within the shadow of two medical schools and some of the best  hospitals, there is no reason for this. They cannot avail themselves of  the services in these buildings that they live in the shadows of  because of the socioeconomic conditions.

We have got to make healthcare more accessible and more affordable  for all of our citizens. We have a great system. There are people I  have traveled with on codels who refuse to go to a doctor or even their  dentist in another country. They wait to get back home to avail  themselves of this great healthcare system that we have in this  country.

The problem is it is not accessible to everybody and not affordable  by everybody. We need to do something about that. We have a way to do  it. I would hope that over the next several days and weeks we will  develop the will that is necessary to do so.