January 6 Attack


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698554/january-6-attack


Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise today to  co-anchor the CBC Special Order along with my distinguished colleague,  Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland.

For the next 60 minutes, members of the CBC have an opportunity to  speak directly to the American people on the January 6 insurrection  attack, an issue of great importance to the Congressional Black Caucus,  the constituents we represent, and all Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay homage to the men and women who 5 years  ago risked their lives protecting the lives of those elected officials  who met in this Hall in fulfillment of their constitutional duties to  peacefully transfer Presidential power after the November 2020  elections.

Mr. Speaker, January 6, 2021, will be forever remembered for the  vicious unprecedented insurrection that took place on that date.

On December 31, 2025, the House Judiciary Committee released the  transcript of its December 17 private 8-hour interview with Special  Counsel Jack Smith, whose investigation into the events of that day led  him to describe January 6 as an event that ``does not happen'' without  President Trump.

Smith testified that Donald Trump is the `` `most culpable and most  responsible person' in the criminal conspiracy to overturn the results  of the 2020 election.'' He continued: ``These crimes were committed for  his benefit. . . . The other co-conspirators were doing this for his  benefit.'' Smith concluded that Trump caused the violence, exploited  it, and refused to stop it.

Mr. Speaker, I was in this Hall on January 6, 2021, and was among  those whisked away to an undisclosed location. My staff huddled behind  barricaded doors that were badly damaged by the mob that was described  by some of my Republican colleagues as ``patriots'' on a tour of the  Capitol.

Our valiant United States Capitol Police and first responders did  everything they could to keep us out of harm's way. Some were beaten,  strangled, and tased. This building, the people's House, was trashed,  damaged, and subjected to despicable acts.

Members of Congress and their staffs feared for their lives. Some of  the insurrectionists waived Confederate battle flags and exhibited Nazi  symbols, and some brave American citizens died. A Republican Senator,  Ron Johnson, said that by and large it was a peaceful protest.

Now, Mr. Speaker, this was not a peaceful protest. It was  unadulterated violence.

The President of the United States and all Members of Congress take  an oath to defend the Constitution from all enemies, foreign and  domestic. That oath is a recognition of the fact that there will be  times throughout history when we must deal with the enemy from within.

On the second day of his Presidency, President Trump granted blanket  pardons and commutations to nearly 1,600 of the rioters who stormed  this Capitol on January 6, 2021. The President decided that these  perpetrators should be pardoned and not pay for their crimes.

By pardoning these individuals, this President has made a mockery of  the pardon process and smeared the oath he took to uphold the  Constitution. These actions demonstrate a blatant disregard for our  democratic principles and the sanctity of the vote.

The great John Lewis once shared his great fear that ``one day we may  wake up and our democracy is gone.'' John and I often spoke of the  delicacy of our democracy and that its future was far from guaranteed.

On January 6, 2021, we came face-to-face with the reality of this  fragility, but our democracy also prevailed. We were not deterred from  doing our constitutional duty and certifying the legitimate results of  the 2020 Presidential election.

Even during this unrelenting campaign to weaken our laws and impede  justice, Members of this body have stood up for our Constitution. The  exceptional work of the bipartisan January 6th Committee, ably chaired  by Representative Bennie Thompson of Mississippi, illuminated for the  American people the severity of the conspiracies behind the January 6  attack. Congress has also passed critical reforms to safeguard the  legal process for future Presidential elections to help ensure this  never happens again.

Earlier today, the leader of our caucus, Hakeem Jeffries, held a  special hearing to shed further light on the ongoing threats to free  and fair elections and the threats to public safety posed by some of  the violent criminals President Trump has let out of prison.

The threat to our democracy that we witnessed 5 years ago has not  lessened, and our obligations to be vigilant in its defense and  steadfast in our pursuit of a more perfect Union is as important as  ever.

The Constitution that binds this country together is a sacred  document that has guided our pursuit of perfection for nearly 250  years. We came close to derailing that pursuit on January 6, 2021.

If we refuse to acknowledge the facts and give due deference to the  violence that took place 5 years ago, we run the risk of abdicating our  responsibility to the American people to safeguard our Nation's core  principles of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

The insurrection of January 6 could very well be the worst domestic  attack on our government since the Civil War, which ended in 1865.

That insurrection incented much of my recently released third book  titled: ``The First Eight,'' which chronicles the trials and  tribulations of the eight African Americans who served in Congress from  my home State of South Carolina before me.

The book also highlights the social and political events that  occurred in the aftermath of the Civil War and calls attention to the  violence and lawlessness that occurred during their service and took  our great Nation into a dark place that lasted for nearly a century.

There are 95 years between number eight in their group and yours  truly, number nine. The book is a cautionary tale that reminds us of  the warning of the Spanish philosopher George Santayana that ``Those  who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.''

I fear that the danger John Lewis fretted about is facing us today.  The aftermath of January 6, 2021, continues to test our ability to  protect our freedom and willingness to continue our trek toward a more  perfect Union.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Maryland for his  comments and for his friendship for these 36-plus years, 30 years as my  colleague.

Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.  Clarke), chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.

Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, good evening. I am Congresswoman  Yvette D. Clarke, chair of the Congressional Black Caucus for the 119th  session of Congress, and proud Representative of New York's Ninth  Congressional District, located in central and southwest Brooklyn.

I thank my colleagues, Congressman   James Clyburn of South Carolina  and Congressman Steny Hoyer of Maryland, for co-anchoring this  Congressional Black Caucus Special Order hour.

I rise tonight with my colleagues of the Congressional Black Caucus  and the House Democratic Caucus to reflect on the solemn anniversary of  the January 6 attack on the United States Capitol.

The deadly insurrection of January 6, 2021, was not merely an attack  on a building, but a direct and violent assault on Members of Congress,  law enforcement, staff, and the very foundations of our democracy.

Today, this evening, we honor the extraordinary bravery of the United  States Capitol Police and other law enforcement officers who protected  our democracy and ensured that the attempt to overturn the 2020  election results failed.

Five years later, it is not lost on members of our Caucus that  efforts to overturn the results of the 2020 election, through false  claims of illegitimate voting, occurred during a year when we saw  historic participation of Black voters. That participation resulted in  Democratic victories up and down the ballot, as well as the election of  the first Black woman Vice President.

Today, we cannot ignore the reality that efforts to disenfranchise  Black communities are still ongoing. Soon, in the Louisiana v. Callais  case, the Supreme Court will decide whether section 2 of the Voting  Rights Act, which outlaws racial discrimination in our electoral  system, still allows Black and minority voters to challenge racially  discriminatory voting maps in court, making clear that the fight to  protect our democracy is far from over.

We will never forget the horrors of January 6, nor will we turn a  blind eye to the efforts that continue to threaten the promise of equal  participation in our democracy and undermine the very foundations on  which this Nation and its governance has been built.

The January 6, 2021, attack on the U.S. Capitol and the occupants of  the Capitol complex is a day that will live in infamy.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her comments. I  now yield to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Mfume).

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks.

I yield to the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. Watson Coleman).

Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I first thank both of our Members  of Congress who are co-leading this very important Special Order hour.

Five years ago, a violent mob attacked the United States Capitol to  prevent the peaceful transfer of power. Yet, on the first day of Donald  Trump's second term, he pardoned more than 1,500 criminals involved in  that insurrection carried out in his name.

This is just one action amid a comprehensive campaign to erase the  memory of what happened on that day. It is a slap in the face to law  enforcement who selflessly put their lives at risk to defend all of us.

Some of them lost their lives, like Officer Brian Sicknick, a New  Jersey native, who tragically died following injuries he sustained that  day. Many more are still dealing with trauma. In Brian's honor, I  introduced a resolution condemning those blanket pardons.

We must never forget their sacrifice. We cannot let Donald Trump and  his allies rewrite the history of one of the darkest moments in the  250-year history of this Nation.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her remarks.

Now I yield to the gentlewoman from Georgia (Mrs. McBath).

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her remarks. I  will now yield to the gentlewoman from North Carolina (Mrs. Foushee).

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her remarks. I  now yield to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Ivey).

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks.

Kaptur).

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her remarks.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks.

Mr. KENNEDY of New York. Mr. Speaker, first, I will recognize the CBC  and Chairwoman Clarke and Representatives Clyburn and Hoyer for hosting  this Special Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, five years ago, our Nation watched in horror as the  President of the United States incited a violent attack on this Capitol  to overturn an election that he lost.

At least 140 officers were viciously assaulted and injured, beaten  with flagpoles and fire extinguishers, sprayed with chemicals and  tased, all in defense of our democracy.

In the days and weeks following the attack, we lost five of those  police officers, those brave heroes. We mourn their loss.

The Department of Justice convicted more than 1,000 rioters and had  hundreds of cases pending. With a stroke of a pen on his first day in  office, President Trump pardoned every single one, putting violent  offenders back on our streets.

Since their release, what have some of those pardoned rioters done?  They have been charged with assaulting police officers, making  terrorist threats, and preying on children. That is who this President  set free: violent individuals and child predators.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle ought to recognize the  darkness this day represents for our country. The Republican majority  must restore checks and balances and finally hold this President  accountable before it is too late.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks.

Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his co-anchorship  of these few minutes that we have spent together here on the floor.

Mr. Speaker, you have heard from many of our distinguished colleagues  about the events of January 6, the insurrection that has been misnamed  by many of my colleagues. These issues are of great importance to the  members of the Congressional Black Caucus. In fact, they are of great  importance to our constituents and to all Americans.

When I think about this day, as many of us will be traveling all over  the country--in fact, I am going to be in the hometown of  Representative Kennedy to celebrate Martin Luther King Jr. Day I think  on the 18 of this month--I am thinking tonight about King's letter from  the Birmingham City Jail, which many of us remember was written in  response to a letter that he had received from eight White clergymen  who said to King that they wanted him to leave Birmingham.

They told King that they thought he was a disruptive force, and they  thought that if he were to leave the community, things would be better.  They told King in their letter to him that they did not want him to get  them wrong because they believed in his cause, but they just thought  that his timing was wrong.

Mr. Speaker, King, in his answer to them, said that time itself is  neutral. The time is never right. Time is never wrong. Time is always  what we make it.

He had a concluding thought there that I have been thinking about all  day. King said that he was coming to the conclusion that the people of  ill will in our society are making a much better use of time than the  people of good will.

Mr. Speaker, I want us to think about that. Those people who came to  this building on January 6, 2021, did not have good will in their  hearts nor on their minds. They were people of ill will, and they made  pretty good use of their time. I will close with this.

King said: ``We are going to be made to repent in this generation not  just for the vitriolic words and deeds of bad people but for the  appalling silence of good people.''

Mr. Speaker, I say to my friends on the other side of the aisle who  have  been silent all day that they may live to regret that silence.