Paying Homage to the Black Men and Women of the Armed Forces


Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to join with my colleagues  in the Congressional Black Caucus to pay homage to the Black men and  women of our Armed Forces whose service and sacrifices have far too  often gone unrecognized and underappreciated. To make matters worse,  they have often been denied their proper and well-deserved benefits as  veterans who proudly served our Nation.

There has been no war or conflict in which this country has been  involved that Blacks did not participate. The men and women we are  honoring tonight, as we commemorate the 100th year of celebrating Black  history, made memorable and consequential contributions to the  greatness of this country. It should not be insulting to any red- blooded American to hear about them, read about them, and learn about  them in the same manner that we learn about others whose contributions  were similar, but their skin color made them more worthy.

When we hear stories of the American Revolution, we don't often hear  of Crispus Attucks, a Black man who became the first casualty of the  American Revolution when he was the first of five colonists shot and  killed on March 5, 1770, in what became known as the Boston Massacre.  His murder stirred the revolutionary fervor and America's fight for its  liberation from the British.

So, why is it that all of us were taught about the Boston Tea Party  but nothing about the Boston Massacre?

The life of Crispus Attucks is far less documented than his death.  Crispus Attucks escaped from slavery in Framingham, Massachusetts, in  1750 and spent two decades on trading ships and whaling vessels. His  death continues to serve as a reminder that African Americans took an  active role in the path to American independence, not a passive one.

The poet John Boyle O'Reilly celebrated Attucks as ``the first to  defy, and the first to die.''

In his 1964 book, ``Why We Can't Wait,'' Martin Luther King pays  homage to Attucks for his courage and defining role in the American  Revolution. Why don't our textbooks?

In his 1881 autobiography ``Life and Times of Frederick Douglass,''  Douglass wrote that he ``urged every man who could enlist to get an  eagle on his button, a musket on his shoulder, and the star-spangled  banner over his head,'' and ``there is no power on Earth which can deny  that he has earned the right to citizenship in the United States.''

Douglass believed the Civil War offered the Black soldier an  opportunity to gain his stripes, but he could not convince his friend,  Abraham Lincoln, to allow Blacks to serve. In August 1862, a formerly  enslaved Black man from South Carolina came here to Washington and  convinced Lincoln to allow Blacks to serve.

History records that 170,000 Blacks joined the Union Army, 19,000  joined the Union Navy, and 40,000 died in that war. Robert Smalls, who  convinced Abraham Lincoln to allow these freedmen to serve, became a  captain in that Navy, participated in 18 battles, and was the only  genuine hero of the Civil War. In my not-so-humble opinion, Robert  Smalls is the most consequential South Carolinian who ever lived.

In 1865, Abraham Lincoln acknowledged their value, saying: Without  the military help of the Black freedmen, the war could not have been  won.

In what textbook do we find that? I would say very few, if any.

World War II saw the service of many African Americans who never got  their just due in or out of the military.

My father had two brothers. Both of them, William and Charlie, served  in World War I. Every time I tried to engage them in conversations  about their experiences in that war, they never ever would discuss  that. They made it very clear to me that the treatment they got both in  that war and when they came back home made them wonder what they were  fighting for.

World War II was much of the same. If I were to mention tonight the  Montford Point Marines, I would suspect very few, if any, in this Hall  would recognize them. Well, Montford Point Marines were those Black  marines who were not allowed to be trained at Camp Lejeune alongside  White soldiers. They were sent to a mosquito-infested swamp in Montford  Point, and that is where they served from 1942 all the way through  1949.

I am pleased that this body, in its wisdom, saw it fitting and proper  to give the Congressional Gold Medal to those Montford Point Marines in  such a way that I would think was offering an apology for the way they  were treated while they were serving.

Now, I would mention, in speaking of World War II, the Tuskegee  Airmen, and everybody would know about the Tuskegee Airmen, the first  African-American military aviators in the United States Armed Forces,  flying over 15,000 combat missions. They played a vital role in the  Allied victory in World War II.

Instead of being defined by the discrimination and the doubts of  those around them, they became one of the most successful pursuit  squadrons in our military. They went on to embody the true meaning of  Black excellence.

They left a segregated country to fight in a segregated Army and  painfully returned to a country that still did not treat them with the  dignity and the respect that they deserved and had earned.

They had a movie made about them, the ``Red Tails,'' but they were  not given their GI Bill benefits.

On July 26, 1948, President Harry Truman signed Executive Order 9981,  desegregating the Armed Forces so there would be no more Montford Point  marines. Truman declared: There shall be ``equality of treatment and  opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to  race, color, religion, or national origin.''

Many servicemen wrote to President Truman. Perhaps the most pivotal  letter that Truman got came from Isaac Woodard, Jr., a World War II  veteran who, hours after being honorably discharged from the United  States Army, was dragged off a bus and beaten to near death and blinded  by police in Batesburg-Leesville, South Carolina.

In response to Woodard's letter, President Truman declared, and I am  quoting Truman: ``When a mayor and a city marshal''--I want to repeat  this: ``When a mayor and a city marshal can take a Negro sergeant off a  bus in South Carolina, beat him up and put out one of his eyes, and  nothing is done about it by the State authorities, something is  radically wrong with the system.''

In January 2025, President Trump made the decision to stop teaching  Air Force recruits about the Tuskegee Airmen in the name of banning DEI  initiatives. Their heroism is not DEI. It is American history.

Sergeant Woodard deserved better treatment because of his sacrifices.  President Truman decided it was time to close a chapter on one part of  American history.

Other Black soldiers returning home from World War II found  themselves facing the same socioeconomic and racial discrimination they  had faced before going off to war. Instead of being welcomed back home  with open arms, they struggled to find jobs, to get an education, and  to purchase homes.

We cannot undo the injustices of our past, but we can begin to  restore the possibility of full economic mobility for those whom the  original GI Bill left behind. That is why I have sponsored for several  years now the GI Bill restoration act that would bring us one step  closer to that goal.

America can't change what happened to these Black soldiers. We can't  change what happened to too many soldiers like Sergeant Woodard who  went uncelebrated because our Nation judged them by the color of their  skin and not the content of their character. However, we can do our  best to make it right, and that begins with us passing my legislation  that I co-led with Congressman Seth Moulton, the Sgt. Isaac Woodard,  Jr. and Sgt. Joseph H. Maddox GI Bill Restoration Act.

We didn't stop with World War II. Just 2 years after Truman issued  his executive order, we began to desegregate the Armed Forces. There we  were in the Korean war, and we put Truman's executive order into action  and was greeted with resistance.

Truman's 1948 executive order inspired many Black men to join,  believing the military would provide an equality of opportunity the  greater American society lacked.

It was in the Korean war that African Americans first served shoulder  to shoulder with soldiers of all races and backgrounds for the first  time. A message resounded throughout the Nation: If people of different  races could serve as comrades in combat abroad, they could live as  neighbors at home.

The quest for racial equality extended far past the barracks or on  the battlefield, but that same quest for racial equality returned home  with Black soldiers.

I often think about our former colleague, the late Congressman  Charlie Rangel. At the age of 17, Charlie Rangel left school and joined  the Army to help his mother support his family. Soon after he enlisted  in 1948, he deployed to Korea for what he thought was a police action  but soon realized it was a full-scale war. With a fighting spirit, he  found himself in combat during the Korean war and risked his life to  rescue 40 soldiers from behind enemy lines.

Returning home to Harlem, New York, Rangel was first elected to  Congress in 1970 and would go on to serve  23 terms in this body. Mr. Rangel was a proud cofounder of the  Congressional Black Caucus.

Today, America is faced with a turbulent reality as the Trump  administration is still trying to purge our United States Armed Forces  of Black officers, diversity, and honoring Black history.

In February 2025, President Donald Trump fired General Charles ``CQ''  Brown, then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The words Trump used  to justify his firing were ``woke'' and ``DEI.'' CQ Brown was the Air  Force's first Black commander of the Pacific Air Forces and later the  first Black Chief of Staff.

What is woke about being a commander of the Pacific Air Forces?

None of the other commanders before him were called woke. They were  all called commanders.

So why was he called woke and fired?

Well, Mr. Speaker, I think you know why.

In March 2025, part of Project 2025, Arlington National Cemetery  erased from its website educational materials about the history of  Black servicemembers, including the Tuskegee Airmen and General Colin  Powell, the first Black Joint Chiefs chairman.

Why are they erasing these people from the website and not anybody  else? We know why.

Let me be clear: The White House and the so-called Department of War  appear determined to undermine, discredit, and even erase the evidence  of Black patriotism and Black servicemembers who have faithfully served  our Nation.

Against this backdrop, we must remain vigilant against these attacks  on Black servicemen and veterans, recognize their valor and sacrifice,  and work diligently to offer them the promise of this country that they  deserve. May Black military service, in triumph and tragedy, always  serve as a powerful reminder that the stories of sacrifice and  patriotism must never be erased regardless of who embodies them.

In all too many instances, Black veterans have had to fight for equal  access to benefits and respect upon returning home. Black veterans have  struggled and died in a dual battle: fighting abroad in defense of  country and fighting at home for opportunity, change, and their rights  as American citizens.

Millions of Black Americans have answered the call to serve and  protect the American people from all threats, both foreign and  domestic. Today, 350,000 Black men and women serve in the United States  military, and there are over 2.4 million Black veterans, many of whom  still are not getting the GI Bill benefits that they deserve. This body  is still refusing to honor legislation that would give them what they  deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Beatty for joining me in this  Special Order hour. I yield to her now to continue this discussion.

Mr. CLYBURN.  Clarke).

Ms. CLARKE of New York. Good evening, I am Congresswoman Yvette D.  Clarke, chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, proudly representing  New York's Ninth Congressional District located in Brooklyn, New York.

I thank my colleagues--Congresswoman Joyce Beatty, a real champion  for the people of Ohio, and Congressman  Jim Clyburn, leadership  extraordinaire--for co-anchoring this Congressional Black Caucus  Special Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight with my colleagues of the Congressional  Black Caucus to again commemorate the centennial of Black History Month  and to reflect on the innumerable contributions to our country that  Black Americans have made throughout our Nation's history.

Black History Month offers our community a time to celebrate our  hidden figures and impactful heroes, including our Black veterans and  servicemembers.

Today, we honor the generations of Black veterans whose courage,  advocacy, sacrifice, and patriotism have moved our country and world  forward.

Since our Nation's founding, our military has relied on Black  Americans to answer the call to serve. Quite frankly, it occurred prior  to our founding. From the Revolutionary War and Crispus Attucks to  Harriet Tubman, spy, scout, nurse, and cook for the Union Army during  the Civil War. From the Tuskegee Airmen, the valiant and courageous Red  Tails, to the brilliant and extraordinary Six Triple Eight, Black women  and men have always been on the front lines, standing for the values  that make our Nation great.

With such a storied legacy of service to our Nation, it is  unfortunate that racially discriminatory practices have for too long  obstructed Black veterans from equally accessing veterans benefits,  like housing, education, and healthcare.

From the denial of the GI Bill benefits, effectively shutting nearly  1.2 million Black veterans out of its promise, decades of  discrimination have produced profound and lasting economic consequences  for Black servicemembers and their families.

Today, Black veterans account for nearly a third of our Nation's  unhoused veteran population, and Black veterans are nearly two times as  likely to live in poverty.

These years of discriminatory practices against our Nation's Black  veterans have only been compounded by this administration's recent  actions within the Department of Defense. From eliminating equitable  practices that benefit our diverse military leadership to creating a  hostile environment that Black veterans have warned will deter a  diverse population of prospective servicemembers, to removing evidence  of the historical impacts of Black servicewomen and -men, this  administration is committed to further marginalizing our Nation's  heroes.

It is important that we never forget the unique history and  contributions of our Nation's Black veterans.

As the conscience of the Congress, the Congressional Black Caucus  refuses to allow the sacrifices of these patriotic Americans, Black  Americans, to go unnoticed or to be erased.

We will never be able to fully repay our veterans, given the  sacrifices they have made for our country, but as Congress, it is our  responsibility to make sure we do all we can to ensure that they have  what they need when they return home.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues of the Congressional Black Caucus  for their commitment to supporting our  Nation's veterans and for recognizing the role that Black veterans play  in American history and to this very day within our U.S. military.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank very much the chair for her  leadership of the Congressional Black Caucus. I thank her for allowing  me to co-chair this Special Order hour with our friend, Congresswoman  Joyce Beatty.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to mention a little bit of  history here that I think is very meaningful and helps to make the  point that I really want to make tonight.

I attended public and private schools in South Carolina, grade  schools, before going off to South Carolina State, now University. When  I came to Congress, South Carolina State had given or produced more  African-American general officers than all the military service  academies combined. It was that one little school in Orangeburg, South  Carolina. Today, if my memory serves, they have produced 23 general  officers.

That school was founded in 1896 as what we call an 1890 land-grant  school. When the land-grant schools were first put into production, it  was 1862. In fact, the land-grant bill was signed by Abraham Lincoln.  Of course, these institutions in the south, like Clemson University in  South Carolina, did not allow African Americans to serve.

If you look at the legislation that created the Morrill Land Grant  Act, which I have studied, it says that it is to teach agriculture and  mechanics. We see in a lot of these schools A&M--in fact, I spent last  Friday on the campus of Florida A&M University in Tallahassee, Florida.  Florida A&M University stands for agricultural and mechanical.

In that law, there is another M that very seldom gets recognized. The  Morrill Land Grant Act lists this as part of the training these  institutions should undertake; military. It is in the law. Some of  these schools, like South Carolina State, have taken that seriously.

Over the years, other land-grant schools like Tuskegee University-- now  I just mentioned the Tuskegee Airmen who came online during World War  II. After the war, we had contributions from people like Daniel  ``Chappie'' James.

I like to mention Daniel ``Chappie'' James because I remember, as a  kid in those schools I was attending in South Carolina, I would hear  all this stuff and read this stuff about Jimmy Doolittle. I read up on  Jimmy Doolittle. He was an outstanding military person, but his resume  does not touch the resume of Daniel ``Chappie'' James, who became the  first African-American four-star general in the Air Force.

Chappie James fought in both the Korean war and the Vietnam war. In  both those wars, he flew 160 missions and is credited with having shot  down 26 enemy planes.

Where in these textbooks do we hear any discussion of Chappie James?  I have never been able to understand what it is about folks who feel  that to give one person credit for having done what they did takes  something away from another person's contributions.

We all believe in this great country. There isn't a need for it to be  made great. It is already great. We have all got to learn how to work  together so that everybody can benefit from the greatness of this  country.

It doesn't take anything away from a child sitting in a class with my  grandchildren, learning about the contributions, learning about Chappie  James. How can that be an insult? There is no insult to my children to  learn about Jimmy Doolittle. Why is it an insult to learn about Chappie  James?

Why is it okay for everybody to enjoy the baseball skills of Jackie  Robinson? It is all right to put his contributions to sports in books.  Before Jackie Robinson ever set foot on Ebbets Field, he was in the  military. He served honorably in the United States military, and that  has been recognized by our military institutions.

Why would this administration take Jackie Robinson's military records  out of our archives? It is okay for him to be a baseball player. It is  okay for him to entertain but not okay for us to recognize him for his  military skills. I don't quite understand that.

I don't understand why it is that we let all these contributions of  entertainers be celebrated; but when it comes to academia, when it  comes to the military, it all becomes wokeness. I have yet to hear one  person apply that term to sports people and entertainers. That, to me,  tells it all.

Mr. Speaker, I think that as we pause to recognize not just the 100th  anniversary of the Black history celebration--I want to say something  about that, too. I really get a little nervous when I hear people  misrepresent the history of this.

In 1915 and 1916, Carter G. Woodson started trying to get our country  to recognize what he called Black History Week. He finally got the  country in, I think, 1926 to recognize it. It became Black History  Week.

When I was a student, that is when we celebrated it. I want the  Record to be clear because I want our history to be what it is, not  what somebody says it is.

Carter G. Woodson was offered the opportunity to designate the week  when we should celebrate Black history. It was Carter G. Woodson who  decided that it should be in February.

Mr. Speaker, the reason he picked the week that he did is because he  wanted to embrace the birthdays of two people: February 12, the  birthday of Abraham Lincoln, and February 14, the birthday of Frederick  Douglass. That is why it was done.

Thanks to the visionary leadership of President Gerald Ford--maybe  Gerald Ford was a woke President. It was Gerald Ford who decided that  we should have Black History Month. He made that decision. Was Gerald  Ford a woke President? I think he was an enlightened President, a  mature thinker.

I would hope that we would all get to the place in our society where  we are mature enough to step outside of our comfort zone sometime,  mature enough to recognize the contributions of others, mature enough  to have in our textbooks the contributions of people who we call  geniuses.

It was okay for us to learn about the lightbulb, but we don't see  anyone learn everything about the lightbulb. In fact, that bulb  couldn't work until Lewis Latimer's filament was put into it. It was  Lewis Latimer's filament--Lewis Latimer, the son of former slaves, who  collaborated with Thomas Edison. Edison's bulb, Lewis Latimer's  filament makes it work.

Thomas Edison was mature enough to step outside of his comfort zone  and sit down with the son of former slaves, Lewis Latimer, and get his  filament to put into his lightbulb, and Lewis Latimer was mature enough  to collaborate with Thomas Edison.

I would hope that all of us in this body can be mature enough to  recognize everybody's contributions and not be insulted by what may be  the contributions of one as opposed to another.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mrs. Beatty for joining me in this Special Order  hour.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I am going to close with something a bit  more general because I have been wrestling with this for the better  part of the last 4 or 5 years.

It is Martin Luther King, Jr.'s letter from the Birmingham City Jail.  King, when he wrote that letter, said something that I will leave us  with tonight.

King was told that the officials in Birmingham wanted him to leave  Birmingham because they said that he was a disruptive force and that  they thought that his cause was right, but his timing was wrong.

King wrote this to those people who wrote him the letter. He said:  ``Time is never right. Time is never wrong. Time is always what we make  it.''

Then he concluded that he was coming to the belief that the people of  ill will in our society were making a much better use of time than the  people of good will.

Then he closed saying that we are going to be made to repent not just  for the vitriolic words and actions of bad people but for the appalling  silence of good people.

There is a lot going on in our country today for which we need to  speak up about. If we remain silent, we are going to be made to repent,  and we may see that democracy is no longer with us.