Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


Mr. NORCROSS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Smith and Chairman  Rogers, and those who came before us, for 60-plus years of working on  this piece legislation to make sure we get it done on behalf of  America. We have a that long, proud tradition of bipartisan work by our  Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, with special thanks to my  chairman, Chairman Wittman, and his staff. We all work together and  have a commitment to make sure we get this done.

Mr. Speaker, this bill addresses affordability and achievability of  the current and future modernization requirements while continuing the  oversight necessary to ensure reasonable execution of these programs  that include all of our tactical aircraft programs; the intelligence,  surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft; and tactical munitions.

This bill also includes the subcommittee's multiyear effort to manage  the largest acquisition program in the history of the Department of  Defense. Yes, that is the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program. This year,  the bill extends by 5 years the annual Government Accountability Office  report on the F-35. We have done many things for F-35 oversight in the  past 2 years, and I am very proud of the way we are bringing it back to  where it needs to be.

As we continue to wage war against so many of those who will do our  country harm, the one good thing we can say is that we work together.

Finally, I thank the subcommittee professional staff for their hard  work, including Jay Vallario, Michael Kirlin, Heath Bope, Caroline  Kehrli, Brooke Alred, and Andrew Smith. Certainly, I also thank my own  personal staff assistant, Robin Dickey; defense fellow, Bryant Yee; and  legislative director, Sam Devito.

As we finish up, this is going to be an incredibly important vote for  the history of our country. Mr. Speaker, I thank all of those involved.

Mr. NORCROSS. Mr. Speaker, at the appropriate time, I will offer a  motion to commit this bill back to committee. If the House rules  permitted, I would have offered this motion with an important amendment  to this bill.

The amendment would talk about the very issue that I spoke about  earlier. Earlier this year, President Trump launched one of the largest  attacks on labor in U.S. history by signing an executive order to strip  Federal workers of their collective bargaining rights.

For more than 60 years, Federal agencies under both Democratic and  Republican administrations have recognized these rights, which give  workers a voice in the workplace. The one thing that Trump said is that  we are trying to keep the Department of Defense from striking workers.

This has always been illegal. There has never been a strike at the  Department of Defense by the civilian employees. It is banned. It does  not impact national security. It is clear that this is union-busting  tactics by the union buster in chief.

I was a union electrician, and I am the co-chair of the Labor Caucus.  I know firsthand how important collective bargaining rights are. It  gives a voice to those workers.

At a time when we are trying to encourage people to go to work for  the Department of Defense, this is a way to try to keep them away  because they don't have a voice. It is key to securing fair wages, a  safe workplace, and dignity on the job. With that executive order, over  1 million Federal employees were impacted by this, including the  Department of Defense.

Unions, the collective bargaining agreement, were created by a vote  of the workers--by a vote. They voted overwhelmingly. President Trump's  executive order seeks to silence those workers by overriding this  sacred vote.

Mr. NORCROSS. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to please join me in  voting for this motion to commit.

Mr. NORCROSS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.