Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Chair, I thank Ranking Member Smith and Chairman  Rogers for setting by example what it is like to work in a bipartisan  fashion and to Chairman Wittman for what he does each and every day to  make sure that we work together to make sure we support our  warfighters.

This bill continues the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee's  proud, bipartisan tradition and reaffirms our shared responsibility for  managing this risk.

I am, however, disappointed that some in the majority would kill this  bipartisan work. We have seen the amendments, and they will ruin what  we have done collectively on our committee. Our servicemembers and  their families deserve better.

Madam Chair, this authorizes funding levels for key defense programs  including $7 billion for the most expensive defense program in the  history of our country, the F-35, and over $800 million to make sure  that we continue the E-7A aircraft which is needed so badly,  particularly in the Pacific.

Madam Chair, this bill also addresses the risks and costs of military  modernization. It extends the review, the assessment, and the reporting  to Congress on the F-35 program by the Government Accountability  Office, which is incredibly important. We have taken many of the  recommendations over the year and find it very valuable.

The bill also continues the subcommittee's work to revitalize our  munitions industrial base by providing multiyear procurement  authorities, coupled with strong investment in these accounts.

Madam Chair, this bill also includes and fortifies the Office of the  Director, Operational Testing and Evaluation. I am concerned with the  administration's plan for DOT&E. We must ensure that this office  remains independent and relevant.

Madam Chair, I thank Jay, Michael, Heath, Caroline, and Brooke, our  professional staff. I also certainly thank my own personal staff, Robin  Dickey, my legislative assistant; Sam DeVito; and Bryan Ye.