Redesignation of Paterson Great Falls Nhp Facilities


Ms. POU. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding to me.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 249, a bill to redesignate  parts of the Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park in honor of  the late Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr.

I thank my friend and fellow New Jerseyan, Congressman Frank Pallone,  for leading this effort. I am a proud original cosponsor of this  important measure to honor the legacy of one of Paterson's greatest  sons, Congressman Pascrell.

Congressman Pascrell was my dear friend and a mentor to me. He was  known throughout our State for his closely held convictions. He spoke  up and spoke out for what he believed in, and he never ever backed down  from a fight.

Many years ago, Bill had a vision for the Great Falls. He knew that,  with adequate Federal resources and funding, the Great Falls could be  an anchor for Paterson's rebirth and revitalization.

Once he arrived in Washington, he rolled up his sleeves and got to  work.

Bill fought relentlessly to secure the designation of the Great Falls  as a National Historic Park in 2009. When it was signed into law by  President Obama, it was a proud day for our city and our entire State.

This designation unlocked a flood of new rehabilitation and expansion  projects that have transformed the Great Falls into a hub for tourism  and recreation.

This includes the expansion of the park's boundaries to encompass the  historic Hinchliffe Stadium. The Great Falls is the crown jewel of our  great city. After Niagara Falls, by volume, it is the largest set of  waterfalls east of the Mississippi River. Hundreds of thousands of  tourists come from all over the world to be inspired by the beauty of  its roaring water.

Additionally, our Great Falls are unique as both a historical and  national landmark. Alexander Hamilton used the power of the falls to  help start the industrial revolution right in the heart of Paterson,  New Jersey.

Overlook Park is the center of our national park. This part of the  district is where you get the classic view of our famous falls. The  pedestrian bridge is another favorite part of the park, a place where  you can get a topside view of the falls and can physically feel its  majesty, along with the mists from the mighty Passaic River.

Mr. Speaker, with the passage of this measure into law to rename  these two locations, Bill Pascrell's tireless advocacy will be  rightfully remembered by generations of Patersonians. As a proud  Patersonian, let me just say, I urge all my colleagues to support the  passage of this measure.