Brigadier General Frederick R. Lopez Post Office Building


Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to encourage every Member of  this Chamber to support this legislation honoring one of Santa Barbara  County's own, Brigadier General Frederick R. Lopez.

My bill would name the South Patterson Avenue post office in  recognition of General Lopez's distinguished legacy of service and his  dedication to our country, serving in the United States Marine Corps  for over 30 years, both in Active Duty and the Reserves.

General Lopez was born in Santa Barbara as the oldest of six siblings  and spent his childhood between the communities of Santa Barbara and  Lompoc, and later in Goleta.

After graduating from Lompoc High School, he attended Cal Poly San  Luis Obispo, where he earned a degree in mathematics.

Upon graduation, General Lopez joined the United States Marine Corps  in 1967. Soon after, he was deployed overseas for the Vietnam war,  serving as an infantry rifle platoon commander and a regimental sniper  platoon commander, as well. His service earned him both a Bronze Star  and a Combat Action Ribbon, as well as the respect of the marines he  served with.

Over his 30 years of service, General Lopez served in a number of  critical leadership roles, including as a company commander of the Air  Naval Gunfire Liaison Company, commanding general for the 4th Marine  Division, and deputy commanding general of the 1st Expeditionary Force.

He is a distinguished graduate of the NATO Joint Warfare Officers  Course, the Naval War College Strategy and Policy Course, the Armed  Forces Work Colleges National Security Course, the Senior Reserve  Components Officers Course at the U.S. Army War College, and five other  professional military schools.

Outside of his military service, General Lopez has been an active  member of his community, serving on the board of directors of many  organizations, including the Pierre Claeyssens Veterans Foundation in  Santa Barbara. He has also been a member of the Military Order of the  World Wars for over 20 years. He was elected the 90th National  Commander-in-Chief for the MOWW in 2020 and serves as the local Colonel  George C. Woolsey Chapter commander.

General Lopez's service is beyond worthy of recognition by Congress.  He represents the best of our servicemembers, and his leadership will  inspire others to continue in his footsteps for years and decades to  come, serving our Nation and the military families of the central  coast.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing and  thanking General Lopez for his exemplary service to our country by  passing my bill to name the South Patterson Avenue post office in his  honor.