Republican Budget Betrayal


Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise on behalf of the  Congressional Hispanic Caucus. A number of members are going to come to  provide testimony tonight about what we perceive is a betrayal of our  colleagues on the other side of the aisle of the American people with  the recently passed budget resolution that really is going to provide  tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans in exchange for cuts in vital,  essential programs for working- and middle-class families.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand here with my colleagues from the  Congressional Hispanic Caucus to call out the partisan Republican  budget resolution that passed last night for what it is. It is a rip- off of the American people. Their budget proposes reckless spending to  support billionaires and make everyday Americans foot the bill.

It cuts over $1 trillion, including $880 billion from Medicaid, in  order to partially pay for trillions of dollars in tax cuts for the  wealthiest people.

These tax cuts would not go to help everyday Americans. Instead, they  would go to the richest 1 percent.

Apart from that, it also increases the deficit and the national debt  to the tune of $4 trillion.

What happened to fiscal responsibility?

This is a betrayal of the American working middle-class families.  There are 80 million people in this country who rely on Medicaid. In my  district alone, over 236,000 people on Medicaid are at risk of losing  their healthcare. This includes nearly 100,000 children and 24,000  seniors.

Not only that, but the budget resolution would also go after the  Affordable  Care Act again, and it is projected to raise annual health premiums by  roughly $1,200 for 20 million people. It would force 7 million  Americans to lose their health insurance.

This budget resolution does nothing to deliver on the current needs  of the American people. As inflation continues to grow and threats of  trade wars persist, the cost of necessities like groceries, childcare,  and housing will continue to increase putting a greater burden on  American families.

Their budget resolution also earmarks $200 billion to supercharge  mass deportations that go beyond violent criminals.

Make no mistake, Mr. Speaker, under this plan, we can expect even  higher prices for food and goods, and it further worsens our workforce  shortages. The reality is that undocumented workers make up 14 percent  of construction workers and roughly 42 percent of our agricultural  workforce.

Mr. Speaker, instead of helping everyday Americans, the cuts would go  to the richest 1 percent. This is a terrible circumstance.

Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Espaillat for his remarks.

Before I yield to our next speaker, I wanted to reiterate: Make no  mistake, under this plan we can expect even higher prices for food and  goods, and it further worsens our workforce shortages.

The reality is that undocumented workers make up 14 percent of  construction workers and roughly 42 percent of our agricultural  workforce.

Farmworkers help feed our Nation and allow grocery stores to stay  stocked with affordable fruits and vegetables. Unfortunately, this  reality is not what my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want  to admit.

On Monday I offered an amendment to the budget resolution so we can  move forward the bipartisan Farm Workforce Modernization Act to provide  farmworkers with legal status so they can continue to work on our farms  in this country.

Not only is this the right thing to do, but providing farmworkers  with legal status helps provide stability and keeps our stores stocked  with affordable groceries and domestically grown food, also helping  American growers.

Instead, the Rules Committee blocked my amendment, and not a single  amendment was made in order. We need to do better than this and deliver  on lowering costs for the American people.

I call on my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to reconsider  this reckless plan that would benefit billionaires at the expense of  everyday Americans.

Mr. CARBAJAL.  Randall).

Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Washington  (Ms. Randall) for her words.

Mr. CARBAJAL.