Undersea Cable Protection Act of 2025


Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chair for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in firm opposition to H.R. 261, the Undersea  Cable Protection Act of 2025.

On its face, this legislation may seem like a narrow procedural  change of streamlining permitting for undersea fiber-optic cables. In  reality, it strips away critical environmental and economic safeguards  that we and the communities we represent depend on to help power our  Nation's blue economy.

We know that four of the five national marine sanctuaries in  California generate more than $114 million a year and support over  1,800 jobs in commercial fishing alone.

H.R. 261 is a giveaway to megacorporations at the expense of the  American taxpayer, the oceans, and the Great Lakes we have advocated to  protect.

Some of the marine sanctuaries most at risk because of this  legislation are iconic spots off the coast of California: Monterey Bay,  Channel Islands, and the newly created Chumash Heritage National Marine  Sanctuary.

Nowhere is this more evident than in the Chumash Heritage National  Marine Sanctuary, a sanctuary that was decades in the making. First  nominated by the Northern Chumash Tribal Council in 2015, the sanctuary  became effective on November 30, 2024, after review by Congress and the  State of California.

Through this legislation, my constituents and the Chumash Heritage  National Marine Sanctuary will lose big. Waiving the future fees on  cables from industry would cost between $2.7 million and $7 million per  every 20 miles each year. While there is a 2-year exception for the  newly designated Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary, current  law requires operators and installers of deep-sea fiber-optic cables to  obtain a permit from NOAA and pay fair market fees for use of these  areas.

I and many others here today believe we need secure and reliable  telecommunications infrastructure. I understand that the 5-year time  limits on permits cause concern for companies looking for long-term  certainty. However, I firmly believe that we can find a solution that  protects these sanctuary resources and treats all stakeholders fairly.

We can find a win-win solution that supports innovation, continues to  support our local economies, and ensures that the American taxpayer  gets a fair return for use of our natural resources.

Mr. Speaker, that is why, at the appropriate time, I will offer a  motion to recommit this bill back to committee. If the House rules  permitted, I would have offered the motion with an important amendment  to this bill.

My amendment is straightforward: Allow tech companies to have their  alternative permitting pathway in sanctuaries but add in a few  commonsense guardrails.

First, allow an alternative license or permit, but require that the  project be compatible with the purpose of the sanctuary. That means  protecting the sensitive areas of the seafloor and avoiding cultural  and historic sites.

Second, require public comment as is currently the practice with  special use permits.

Third, require these companies to carry liability insurance for the  project. We don't want to see another disaster like we saw off the  coast of Oregon, a Meta subsidiary dumping drilling fluid and drilling  equipment on the seafloor, then leaving the taxpayers on the hook to  clean up the mess. Yes, did I say taxpayers? Yes, they are the ones who  paid.

Finally, my amendment would maintain the status quo and allow NOAA to  collect a fair market fee for the use of these sanctuary resources,  just like any other public land management agency does for cables that  cross their protected lands.

These are all standard provisions for the use of public resources,  and I hope we can bring back a little bit of common sense to this  legislation.

Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in voting  for the motion to recommit to protect our marine sanctuaries for future  generations.

Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.

Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.