Claiming Age Clarity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697234/claiming-age-clarity-act


Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the leader for bringing this bill  to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, Ms. Moore is right. There are serious questions about  Social Security and its sustainability going forward. I can tell my  colleagues that Republicans want to ensure that the promises that have  been made to the American people will be kept.

We need to have that conversation that Ms. Moore talked about. We  need to make structural changes to the program. We have a math problem.  In 8 years, if nothing is done, beneficiaries will not receive their  full payments. It is time we begin to have that discussion.

Mr. Speaker, for individuals who are reaching retirement age, this  ensures they have the best information available to them as they make  decisions about when to start benefits.

Today, we use terms like ``early eligibility age,'' ``full retirement  age,'' and ``delayed retirement credits.'' Those are confusing to  people I talk with about this. Studies show that most beneficiaries  don't fully understand how their claiming decisions will affect their  monthly benefits. As a result, there are many seniors today who may be  missing out on substantial retirement income because of suboptimal  claiming decisions they made.

Mr. Speaker, that is where the Claiming Age Clarity Act comes in. My  bill would simply change the terminology used by the Social Security  Administration to describe the different ages when an individual can  begin to claim their benefits.

Instead of ``early retirement age,'' this bill would refer to 62 as  the ``minimum benefit age.'' If Americans start Social Security at 62,  then that is the smallest benefit, the minimum benefit, they would  receive. ``Full retirement age'' would become the ``standard benefit  age.'' Age 70 would be referred to as the ``maximum benefit age.'' When  describing this, it doesn't get any simpler than minimum, standard, and  maximum benefit ages.

This bill will help seniors make informed decisions when deciding  when to begin their Social Security benefits that they have earned.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Beyer for leading this effort with me, and I  urge my colleagues to support this commonsense bill.