Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689909/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

I would first say it has been a great pleasure of mine to work with  the chairman over the past few months. He has done an incredible job  leading the Budget Committee and leading our Conference to a resolution  passed out of the House that not only extended the tax cuts but secured  the border. It unleashes American energy. It funds our military. All  the priorities, all the mandates that the American people have given us  and have given the President in this past election, it makes good on.

I will say first that it is, I think, important to every Member of  the Republican Conference in the House and, I believe, every Republican  Member in the Senate, as well, to extend those tax cuts, drive an  economy that is working for Americans, and drive additional growth in  the economy.

That is what came out of the House, and so I was very disappointed to  see very different instructions to the Senate that I think are not  serious.

I believe that we have to do these tax cuts. What I think is also  important to every Member of the House--we know the fiscal trajectory  that we are on, and we know this won't end well if we don't restrain  our runaway spending. I think this is our opportunity to do it.

The $4 billion floor in spending savings in that Senate resolution  just simply is not acceptable. There are those who argue that we will  be working on this and will still come up with a good resolution, but  to me, it is important we have the guardrails in the initial  resolution.

I think there is a reason for the initial resolution. It is to set up  the framework for what this reconciliation will look like.

Unfortunately, today--unusual for me--I will not be able to support  this resolution on the floor. I will be voting ``no'' on this  resolution.

Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, again, with what I started with, it is very  important we get this resolution done. There is a better path forward.  We have an amendment that could be passed in this resolution that would  satisfy where the Senate is, where the House is. As I said, I can't  vote for this resolution as it is, but there is a pathway forward here  that is very important.