Congratulating the Manor Future Farmers of America


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697257/congratulating-the-manor-future-farmers-of-america


Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to congratulate and recognize  the Penn Manor Future Farmers of America chapter (Manor FFA),  affiliated with Penn Manor High School in Lancaster County,  Pennsylvania, on their accomplishments at the 98th National FFA  Convention & Expo.

Prior to the national convention, the Manor FFA was named as a  national finalist for the 2025 Premier Chapter Award in the Building  Communities category for their Mini-THON Line Dance activity. They were  also recognized as a 3-star chapter, which is the highest ranking an  FFA chapter can receive. Three of their students--Vita Failla, Molly  Gehr, and Carly Railing--also received American FFA Degrees, the  highest honor bestowed to FFA members.

The Manor FFA excelled during the 98th National FFA Convention &  Expo, which was held from October 24, 2025 to November 1, 2025, in  Indianapolis, Indiana. During the Poultry Evaluation event, Manor FFA  students evaluated live poultry, graded carcasses and eggs, and  completed a written exam. The Manor FFA team won a gold ranking, and  the students--Anna Frey, Jozie Gilger, Leanna Kneisley, and Misty  Railing--each earned silver.

The Dairy Cattle Evaluation and Management event saw students assess  pedigrees, herd records, and live dairy cattle, and presented oral  justifications for their decisions. The Manor FFA team earned an  overall silver ranking. Katie Charles received a gold ranking, Jayden  Buck and Grace Shaielby received silver, and Lillian Walborn received  bronze.

The Manor FFA entered the 98th National Convention FFA with accolades  and left with even more. Through their commitment to agriculture and  their stellar work ethic, these students exemplify the character of  Pennsylvania's 11th Congressional District. I congratulate the Manor  FFA chapter on their accomplishments, and I wish them continued  success.