Congratulating the Manheim Central High School Boys' Volleyball State Champions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692807/congratulating-the-manheim-central-high-school-boys-volleyball-state-champions


Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to congratulate the Manheim  Central High School boys' volleyball team on winning the PIAA Class 2A  State championship on Saturday, June 14, 2025.

The Manheim Central Barons cruised through the regular season, the  District Three championship, and state playoffs to end up exactly where  they had been the previous year: in the PIAA Class 2A championship  match against the same opponent. Manheim Central came up just short  with a silver medal in last year's championship match against Meadville  but avenged their past loss this season. The Barons played with  determination and delivered a commanding 3-1 victory over their  previously undefeated rivals on June 14 to capture the gold.

Contributing to the Barons' state championship was their cast of  talent, which included six District Three 2A all-stars. This included  senior setter and leader Dylan Musser, who was named as the  Pennsylvania Volleyball Coaches Association's ``Mr. Volleyball of  Pennsylvania''--among other accolades--and was instrumental in their  championship with 43 assists. Also integral to their success was  veteran coach Craig Dietrich, who was awarded District Three coach of  the year.

I include in the Record the following individuals contributed to the  Manheim Central Barons' 2025 boys' volleyball championship:

Players: Reagan Miller, Cole Arter, Dylan Musser, William       Meyers, Daniel Becker, Colin Rohrer, Weston Longenecker,       Christopher Neiles, Caleb Groff, Gavin Longenecker, Wyatt       Buckwalter, Ryder Buckwalter, Bryan Fahnestock, Asher Ulrich,       Landon Mattiace, Jay Hollinger

Coaches: Craig Dietrich, Katrina Thomas, Brandon Musser,       Kevin Groff

As Manheim Central boys' volleyball team crowns a fantastic season  with a gold medal, I sincerely congratulate each player and coach that  made their success possible. The Barons have earned their place as  state champions, and I look forward to seeing what these players  accomplish next.