Hospital Inpatient Services Modernization Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697170/hospital-inpatient-services-modernization-act


Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for moving this bill  through Ways and Means and for having us consider this bill this  evening, the Hospital Inpatient Services Modernization Act, which is  legislation led by my friend, Congressman Buchanan. I appreciate his  leadership on this, and I was pleased to be able to support the effort,  as well.

This bipartisan bill would enable hospitals to extend their  successful hospital at home programs for another 5 years. The hospital  at home model gives hospitals the flexibility to treat certain patients  in the comfort and convenience of their own homes rather than in the  hospital facility.

Over 31,000 patients received acute level care in their homes as of  October 2024, and studies show that hospital systems achieved savings  of 19 percent regarding these patients who required a shorter average  length of stay and used fewer unnecessary services.

A number of hospitals in my district have used the hospital at home  waiver to great effect. For example, one system with a hospital in my  community has accepted more than 800 patients across all of their  facilities, freeing up more than 1,500 hospital bed days and saving  approximately $1.1 million.

This is exactly the kind of program that we should be encouraging. It  allows medical providers to innovate and provide better care for their  patients. Patients like being at home, as well. It decreases costs over  the long run. By extending the hospital at home waiver for 5 years,  this bill that we are considering today would give hospitals the  certainty they need to continue to build out these innovative care  models and serve their patients in a holistic way after the disruption  caused by the Democratic shutdown.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this  important legislation, which is a clear win for patients and taxpayers.