Recognizing Cadet Colonel Slater Shannon for Earning the General Carl A. Spaatz Award


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700378/recognizing-cadet-colonel-slater-shannon-for-earning-the-general-carl-a-spaatz-award


Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to congratulate and recognize  Civil Air Patrol (CAP) Cadet Colonel Slater Shannon for earning the  General Carl A. Spaatz Award.

Cadet Colonel Shannon is the 2,574th individual in history to receive  the General Carl A. Spaatz award. Named after General Spaatz, the first  Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force and first chairman of the  CAP National Board, the award is the highest honor that a CAP cadet can  receive. Qualifying individuals spend years in the cadet program and  undergo physical training, academic preparation, and leadership  development.

Cadet Colonel Shannon serves with the Jesse Jones Composite Squadron  304, based at Lancaster Airport, of the Pennsylvania Wing Civil Air  Patrol. During his time with CAP, he served as Cadet Commander of  Squadron 304, was Primary Representative to the Pennsylvania Wing Cadet  Advisory Council and assisted in multiple emergency service missions.  He currently serves as the Secretary for the Northeast Region Committee  of CAP. Cadet Colonel Shannon is also an accomplished student both in  his CAP service and his private life, having completed aerospace  education programs provided through the military while sustaining a  4.07 GPA. His accomplishments have earned recognition not just from  myself, but from President Donald J. Trump, who wrote to him a letter  of recognition.

The General Carl A. Spaatz Award goes to an average of five cadets  out of one thousand, and the accomplishments of Cadet Colonel Slater  Shannon merit him this prestigious honor. I thank Cadet Colonel Shannon  for his selfless service to this country and I congratulate him on  receiving this prestigious recognition. I look forward to seeing what  his bright future holds.