Authorizing the Use of the Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers' Memorial Service and the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701221/authorizing-the-use-of-the-capitol-grounds-for-the-national-peace-officers-memorial-service-and-the-national-honor-guard-and-pipe-band-exhibition


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 73, legislation  introduced by myself and Representative Perry.

This resolution authorizes the use of the Capitol grounds for events  related to the 45th Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial Service on  May 15, 2026.

The National Fraternal Order of Police will host this event to honor  the Federal, State, and local law enforcement officers who lost their  lives in the line of duty in the year 2025.

In my home State of Arizona, we honor Officer Gabriel Facio of the  Apache Junction Police Department, who was killed in the line of duty  in June 2025.

Officer Facio served with the Apache Junction Police Department for  nearly 4 years and had previously served as an officer in the city of  Phoenix. He is survived by his wife, daughter, son, parents, and a  grandchild.

Last month, we lost two more Arizona heroes. State Trooper Hunter  Bennett was killed in a helicopter crash alongside his pilot, Retired  Lieutenant Colonel Robert Skankey, while responding to an active  shooter incident.

Trooper Bennett was just 28 years old and was married to his high  school sweetheart, Breanna. He graduated top of his class from the  Arizona Law Enforcement Academy after graduating magna cum laude from  Arizona State University.

Pilot Skankey retired from the United States Marine Corps after 22  highly decorated years. He went on to join the Arizona Department of  Public Safety, serving as an aviation supervisor. He leaves behind his  wife, Tjiske, and four children. Their service and sacrifice remind us  that the dangers our law enforcement officers face are real and they  are ever-present.

We honor Officer Facio, Trooper Bennett, Pilot Skankey, and all  officers throughout the country for their sacrifices and devotion to  protecting our communities.

In addition to the families and friends of the deceased, event  organizers expect 25,000 police officers from around the country to be  in attendance.

Additionally, this resolution authorizes the use of Capitol grounds  for the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Expedition on May 14, 2026.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bipartisan resolution and urge my  colleagues to do the same.

Mr. Speaker, I support H. Con. Res. 73. At a time of  hyperpartisanship in this body, it is good that we can come together  unanimously in a bipartisan way to support the law enforcement officers  and their families who have paid the ultimate sacrifice in support of  their communities.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H. Con. Res. 73, and I  yield back the balance of my time.