Federal Building Threat Notification Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701147/federal-building-threat-notification-act


Mr. Speaker, Federal employees deserve to work in safety and  security, and the Americans who go to Federal buildings to access  essential services deserve to do so with the same assurances.

A 2025 GAO report found that in fiscal year 2024 alone, there were  over 3,500 incidents, recorded incidents, at Federal facilities across  this country: 763 threats, 142 weapons violations, 9 arson attacks, 3  homicides, and 1 kidnapping.

These are attacks on the women and men who show up every day to serve  the American people. Right now, in this political climate, Federal  employees are being targeted, online, in person, and in the buildings  where they work. The hostility directed at our civil servants has  reached a boiling point, and Congress must act to keep people safe.

However, threats don't only come from people. When Hurricane Katrina  struck the Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005, 83 Federal facilities in  Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama were significantly damaged. Back- to-back hurricanes, Irma and Maria, severely damaged Puerto Rico's  Federal buildings and Federal courthouses in 2017. Storms are getting  stronger and more destructive. It is critical that workers and visitors  to Federal buildings know what to do in case of an emergency.

H.R. 6481, the Federal Building Threat Notification Act, introduced  by myself and cosponsored by Congressman Perry, directs the  Administrator  of General Services and the Director of the Federal Protective Service  to develop and disseminate a clear, actionable emergency communication  protocol for public buildings.

The guidance will include best practices and protocols to inform  building tenants of threats to the buildings or their occupants and  instructions for safety practices in response to threats or heightened  risk.

The Federal Building Threat Notification Act is common sense and good  policy. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 6481, the Federal Building Threat  Notification Act, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting  this important bill.