Fifteenth Anniversary of Arizona Mass Shooting


Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to mark a solemn anniversary.

Fifteen years ago today, Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords was doing  her job, holding a ``Congress on Your Corner'' event at a grocery store  in Tucson, standing outside in the January sunshine, listening to her  constituents, figuring out how she could help them.

Then the unthinkable happened. In an instant, this moment of  democracy turned into a tragedy. A gunman targeting Congresswoman  Giffords killed six of our fellow Arizonans: Federal Judge John Roll, a  dedicated public servant; Dorothy Morris, Phyllis Schneck, Dorwan  Stoddard, beloved members of the community; 9-year-old Christina-Taylor  Green, born on September 11, 2001, a budding public servant who had  just been elected to her middle school student council; and Gabe  Zimmerman, Gabby's director of community research who died doing the  work that he loved.

Thirteen others were wounded, including Congresswoman Gabrielle  Giffords. She survived a gunshot wound to her head through the sheer  force of her will, exceptional medical care, and the unwavering support  of her husband, Captain Mark Kelly.

I worked closely with Gabby when she was in the State legislature,  and I served on the Phoenix City Council. She was a singularly talented  leader, brilliant and tough as nails, with the rare gift for bringing  people together. There is no doubt in my mind that if it were not for  that day, Gabby Giffords would be sitting in the United States Senate  right now or the Governor's office, maybe even the White House.

We have seen the consequences when political disagreements  metastasize into something darker. In the last few years, political  violence has increased in frequency and intensity, and this violence  has been directed at both Republicans and Democrats.

Gabby Giffords herself has shown us the path forward. Despite a long  and difficult recovery that continues to this very day, she has  transformed unimaginable tragedy into courageous action.

Through GIFFORDS, the organization she cofounded with Mark Kelly, she  leads the fight for a future free from gun violence, not with  bitterness, but with courage, determination, and with hope.

Her example stands as a rebuke to the cynicism that too often  characterizes our politics. Gabby reminds us that we can disagree and  disagree strongly while still recognizing the fundamental humanity in  one another. We can fight for our principles without demonizing our  opponents.

On this 15th anniversary, we honor those who we lost by recommitting  ourselves to the work that they believed in, a democracy where  disagreement is not just tolerated but celebrated, where robust debate  strengthens rather than threatens our institutions, and where every  American can engage in civic life without fear.

That is the America Gabby Giffords fought for then. That is the  America she fights for now, and that is the America we must build  together.