Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program Amendment Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700751/lower-colorado-river-multi-species-conservation-program-amendment-act-of-2025


Mr. STANTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today to urge my colleagues to  support the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program  Act, a bipartisan bill that is absolutely critical to the future of my  home State of Arizona and the American West.

The Colorado River is the lifeblood of our region. More than 40  million people across the seven basin States depend on it for drinking  water, agriculture, and economic vitality. In Arizona alone, it  supports our cities, our farmers, our Tribal communities, and our  economy, including our critical semiconductor industry.

But this river is under enormous pressure from a drought now entering  its 25th year, from overuse, and from a changing climate that is  reshaping the West as we know it. At the same time, dozens of native  fish, migratory birds, and plant species that depend on this river are  fighting for survival.

The Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program is an  incredibly successful collaboration between the Federal Government, the  States, and key stakeholders. It has been doing the hard work on the  ground for over two decades to manage habitats and protect native  species.

This program has successfully established thousands of acres of  native riparian and aquatic habitat, stocked the river with native  fish, and increased the numbers of breeding migratory birds over more  than 5,000 acres.

The program also provides a measure of reliability and certainty for  future river operations. States like Arizona have a responsibility  under the Endangered Species Act to protect these vulnerable habitats  while balancing the need to deliver Colorado River water to users  across the State and region.

This fund gives the Lower Basin an essential tool to protect the  health of the river, and it is one less thing to fight over at a time  when tensions over the river's future are exceptionally high.

The Lower Basin States of Arizona, California, and Nevada are  continuing to put our money where our mouth is, contributing millions  to the conservation of this critical resource.

This bill simply ensures that the money we contribute to the program  can accrue interest as it sits in the Treasury's coffers. Dollars that  our States put in will go a lot further at no additional cost to the  taxpayers of this country.

I thank my colleagues for their partnership in getting this bill to  the House floor, especially Congressman   Ken Calvert of California and  Congresswoman Susie Lee of Nevada.

Madam Speaker, I urge colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support this commonsense, bipartisan legislation.