Welcoming Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to Washington, D.C.


Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize and welcome His All- Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, Archbishop of  Constantinople-New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch, who visits the United  States this week to receive the prestigious Templeton Prize. As the  spiritual leader of 300 million Orthodox Christians worldwide and the  longest-serving Archbishop of Constantinople in the Church's two- thousand-year history, His All-Holiness distinguishes himself as a  global advocate for peace, reconciliation, and religious freedom.

Elected in 1991, Bartholomew leads efforts to unify the Orthodox  Church and other faiths across national and cultural boundaries. He  convenes councils, restores long-oppressed churches, and recognizes the  independence of emerging Orthodox churches. His tireless efforts to  bring together Christians of different traditions do not go unnoticed.

His All-Holiness is a champion for interfaith dialogue and a  steadfast advocate for interfaith understanding. He builds meaningful  relationships with Muslim and Jewish leaders in the Middle East,  Europe, and beyond. He consistently speaks for peace and emphasizes  that religious freedom and tolerance are essential to global stability,  even as he faces persecution and harassment in his homeland.

Bartholomew is also a steward for the environment who organizes  international ecological symposia and advocates for waterway  preservation. His call for September 1 to be a day of prayer for the  environment earned him the title ``the Green Patriarch,'' a role he  continues to embrace.

His relationship with the United States is long and distinguished. He  received the Congressional Gold Medal from President Bill Clinton in  1997 and has since met Presidents George W. Bush, Barack Obama, and Joe  Biden, as well as other U.S. leaders, in recognition of his  contributions to global peace and understanding.

As His All-Holiness is in our Nation's Capital once again, his visit  highlights his extraordinary leadership. Ecumenical Patriarch  Bartholomew continues to devote his life to advancing peace, fostering  understanding across faiths, and promoting human dignity. His  leadership continues to inspire communities in the United States and  around the world.