Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. LaHOOD. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this  misguided amendment.

The longstanding U.S. military investment for the independent  Lebanese Armed Forces, also known as the LAF, has worked to support  U.S. security interests in the Middle East for close to 20 years.

As co-chair of the U.S.-Lebanon Friendship Caucus and a member of the  House Intelligence Committee, I work closely with the brave men and  women in the U.S. military who work alongside the LAF to ensure robust  oversight of U.S. military funding and training resources.

The stability of the LAF is important not only to the security of  Lebanon but also their neighboring countries and the United States.  That stability is more important than ever as the LAF works to  permanently disarm and destroy Hezbollah's presence in Lebanon.

Building on the tremendous success of Israel in weakening Iran and  eliminating Hezbollah's terrorist leader network, Hezbollah is now at  its weakest point. This is a tremendous opportunity for the LAF and for  the people of Lebanon to root out terror proxy influence from within  their borders.

The LAF has an active mission and expectation from the United States  and others to fully disarm Hezbollah, and they are working to  accomplish that every day.

Eliminating military funding from the LAF now will only serve to  further embolden Hezbollah and allow them to regroup. This cannot  happen with Hezbollah on their back foot. U.S. support and funding for  the LAF is more important than ever.

This amendment is misguided. To prove that point, I will reference an  article from earlier this week, from July 12 of 2025: This week the  Trump administration, the State Department, and the DOD approved $100  million to go to the LAF for the Super Tucano aircraft.

In listening to what the State Department said regarding the sale of  military equipment to Lebanon, this is their statement: ``This proposed  sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the  United States by improving the security of a partner country,  [Lebanon,] that continues to be an important force for political  stability and economic progress in the Middle East.''

Madam Chair, I include in the Record an article dated July 12, 2025,  which shows that the current Trump administration supports military  funding to the LAF.                    [From L'Orient Today, July 12, 2025]     US Approves Potential $100 Million Sale to Lebanon for A-29 Super                             Tucano Maintenance

Beirut--The U.S. State Department has approved a potential       $100 million sale to Lebanon for maintenance services and       support equipment for the A-29 Super Tucano aircraft, the       Pentagon announced in a statement Friday. The Super Tucano is       a multi-mission aircraft used for training and light attack       operations.

According to the statement, the ``government of Lebanon has       requested to buy support equipment, and other related       elements of a logistics program and support.''

``This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and       national security of the United States by improving the       security of a partner country that continues to be an       important force for political stability and economic progress       in the Middle East,'' the statement read.

The State Department noted that the Lebanese Armed Forces       (LAF) were deployed to southern Lebanon to help implement the       November 2024 cease-fire, which followed 13 months of       conflict between Hezbollah and Israel.

``Sustainment of the A-29 fleet will support the LAF's role       in maintaining the cessation of hostilities by ensuring       maintenance of this critical aircraft, which is used for       Close Air Support in ground maneuver operations, as well as       manned Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance       missions,'' the statement added.

``The sale of A-29 sustainment will support the LAF's       implementation of the cessation of hostilities by providing       maintenance for this critical aircraft, which is used to       conduct Close Air Support as part of ground maneuver       operations, as well as manned Intelligence, Surveillance, and       Reconnaissance,'' the statement adds.

Moreover, the State Department noted that the ``principal       contractor will be Sierra Nevada Corporation [SNC], located       in Sparks, NV'', adding that at this time, the ``U.S.       Government is not aware of any offset agreement proposed in       connection with this potential sale.''

During the clashes in March between clans close to       Hezbollah and the Syrian army along the Lebanese-Syrian       border, the LAF deployed its Super Tucano attack aircraft to       strike at a position in Syria, demonstrating its growing       operational capabilities and use of such weapons. Despite the       cease-fire agreement, Israel has continued to carry out near-      daily airstrikes, mainly in southern Lebanon, and maintains       control over five areas within Lebanese territory.

Mr. LaHOOD. Madam Chair, I oppose this misguided amendment, and I  urge my colleagues to do the same.