Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699084/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. MERKLEY. I thank my colleague Senator Whitehouse, who has been  pointing out that we have a money and politics system that is  corrupting the vision of government by and for the people and is  replacing it with government by and for the powerful. Who in America  wants a governmental system, designed and intended to be a reflection  of ordinary citizens' desires and aspirations and opinions, to simply  be a country run by oligarchs, by billionaires? Yet that is where we  have arrived.

We absolutely need to change this campaign system--moneys in the  campaign--in order to save any possibility of a republic by and for the  people.

What we really have now are two campaign systems--one for ordinary  citizens and one for the megarich that gives the megarich extraordinary  power.

If you or I make a donation to a candidate, well, first of all, there  is a cap on it of several thousand dollars. I know nobody in my blue- collar community donates several thousand dollars to a campaign, but  there are upper middle-income families that do donate thousands of  dollars, but it is thousands, not millions, not tens of millions, and  it is completely disclosed. You can look up who gave to the candidate.  It is disclosed. It is capped. That is the system for ordinary  Americans.

But then there is the system for the powerful that every single  Republican in this Chamber keeps voting to defend. It is called the  dark money system. There is no cap on the amount that can be donated.  There is no public disclosure to the American people.

The Supreme Court created this dual system, saying: You know, a cap  on money to the candidate--well, that could produce a conflict of  interest or appearance of corruption, so you can cap it. But if you  give it to the friend of the candidate to run a parallel campaign,  well, that is suddenly whitewashed or washed clean and no influence on  the candidate. The candidate probably won't even know about it.

Well, everyone knows that is a complete fallacy, complete and  totally. Somebody gives $10 million to the friend of the candidate to  run a parallel campaign, the candidate knows that is happening. They  know the ads. They hear about the source. Even that parallel campaign-- they can still share staff. I mean, there is no real division between  them.

So that was a completely phony distinction created by the Court to  create a system of corporate and billionaire power in America. As my  colleague pointed out in the context of climate, we saw a radical  change immediately.

Well, the growth in dark money has been stunning. Because there is so  much money among the oligarchs and billionaires, they want to spend it  to create laws that favor the oligarchs and billionaires, and they are  spending at an extraordinary rate.

Six years ago, it was about $300 million. That is a lot of money. But  according to the Brennan Center article from May 7--Mr. President, I  ask unanimous consent to have this Brennan Center article printed in  the Record.

Dark money groups, nonprofits and shell companies that spend       on elections without revealing their donors, plowed more than       $1.9 billion into last year's election cycle, a dramatic       increase from the prior record of $1 billion in 2020.

Citizens United, which allowed corporations and unions to       raise and spend unlimited amounts on elections, was premised       significantly on the Court's assumption that all of this       newly permitted election spending would be transparent. In       reality, many of the groups the Court allowed to spend money       on elections were not required to disclose their donors.       Since Citizens United, dark money groups have spent at least       $4.3 billion on federal elections.

As dark money has proliferated, it has also evolved.       Immediately after Citizens United, many newly empowered       groups purchased their own ads to influence elections. Some       of these purchases were reported to the Federal Election       Commission (FEC), which makes such information publicly       available. However, since at least 2020, dark money groups       have largely shifted toward making large transfers to allied       super PACs--in amounts that far exceeded any previous direct       ad spending. These totals can only be tabulated by reviewing       each super PAC's campaign finance reports. Dark money groups       also increasingly run ads, including many online ads, that       are worded and timed such that they do not trigger FEC       disclosure requirements.

This analysis offers the first comprehensive accounting of       dark money in the most recent federal election cycle.

It combines publicly available FEC data with data on       otherwise undisclosed television spending from the Wesleyan       Media Project, a research institute that tracks political       advertising, and data on digital political ad sales that       certain online platforms voluntarily make public. Some other       categories of undisclosed political spending cannot be       reliably tracked. Therefore, the $1.9 billion figure reported       in this analysis necessarily--and perhaps substantially--      underestimates the true scale of dark money spending in 2024.                         Types of Dark Money Spending

The term dark money as used in this analysis refers to       election spending and contributions by nonprofits and shell       companies that are not legally required to--and do not--      disclose the identities of their donors. The lack of       transparency does not make the spending analyzed here       illegal, although the Brennan Center supports legislation to       require full disclosure of more of it. Dark money flowed into       the 2024 elections in four ways that can be tracked:       contributions to super PACs, direct spending reported to the       FEC, TV spending, and online spending.                         Contributions to Super PACs

During the 2024 election cycle, shell companies and 501(c)       nonprofits that did not disclose their funding sources gave       $1.3 billion to super PACs--more than in the prior two       election cycles combined.

Citizens United and later court cases led to the creation       of super PACs, which can receive contributions of any amount,       including from corporations and unions. Although       super PACs are supposed to operate independently from the       candidates they support, many are established by candidates'       close allies or run by former staff or party operatives. Many       share consultants with campaigns and even enlist candidates       to help them fundraise.

Recent FEC rulings have opened the door to even more direct       cooperation between candidates and super PACs in certain       critical areas--including canvassing and get-out-the-vote       efforts.

Donald Trump's 2024 campaign outsourced many of these       activities in swing states to a super PAC run by his largest       supporter, tech billionaire Elon Musk, while Kamala Harris       leaned heavily on a super PAC run by Democratic Party       operatives.

Super PACs are required to report their donors, but they       can easily hide the original sources of their funds by taking       money from dark money groups. This practice has exploded in       recent elections. Many of the top-spending super PACs in       2024--including Future Forward USA, which worked to elect       Harris, and the Senate Leadership Fund, which is tied to       Republican Party leaders--had affiliated dark money groups       that provided eight- or nine-figure sums.

The chart below shows how dark money has evolved since 2010       according to FEC data. Direct ad spending by dark money       groups used to be the main reported funding avenue, but its       2012 peak is now eclipsed by dark money contributions to       super PACs in each of the previous three elections. (For the       purposes of this analysis, the term super PACs includes       groups called Carey committees or hybrid PACs that have both       an independent expenditure arm and an arm that takes limited       contributions.)                            Television Ad Spending

Dark money groups spent approximately $242 million on TV       ads targeting federal candidates during the 2024 election       cycle, according to new Wesleyan Media Project research. The       vast majority was not reported to the FEC. As explained in       the methodology below, this study's dark money total of $1.9       billion avoids double counting the small amount of spending       that may be included in both data from the Wesleyan Media       Project and FEC data.

Federal rules only require certain campaign ads to be       reported to the FEC. Ads that do not expressly advocate for       the election or defeat of a candidate using unambiguous       phrases like ``vote for'' or ``vote against'' are generally       not subject to reporting requirements, except for TV and       radio ads run within 30 days of a primary or 60 days of       Election Day.

By running ads that avoid explicit calls to vote for or       against a particular candidate outside of the mandated       reporting windows, dark money groups can bypass FEC       disclosure rules. Some of this spending can still be tracked       because it is available through TV ad tracking services, and       those ads are reflected in this analysis. But additional TV       spending on streaming applications like Hulu and local TV ad       buys means the actual total exceeds the $242 million       discussed here.                              Online Ad Spending

Digital ads are another form of dark money spending that is       often missing from FEC data, and data from the largest online       platforms shows that hidden sources spent $315 million. Like       TV ads, online ads can avoid disclosure requirements if they       do not explicitly advocate for the election or defeat of a       particular candidate. Unlike TV and radio ads, online ads       that mention candidates are not subject to FEC reporting       regardless of proximity to Election Day.

Nevertheless, some major online platforms voluntarily       maintain databases of political ad sales. These datasets       indicate that about 320 groups that do not disclose their       donors collectively spent more than $281 million on online       ads during the 2024 election cycle without disclosing any       spending to the FEC. Another 38 nonprofits that do not       disclose their donors but reported at least some spending to       the FEC spent an additional $34 million on online ads. (As       with TV spending, this analysis does not double count       spending that appears in both data from online platforms and       FEC data.) Without standardized disclosure regulations for       online political advertising, however, the full extent of       digital election spending remains difficult to quantify.

The major platforms that reported political ad sales for       2024 are Facebook, Instagram, Google, YouTube, X, and       Snapchat. Spending totals for Facebook, Instagram, Google,       and YouTube were collected by OpenSecrets, and spending       totals for X and Snapchat were obtained directly from those       platforms.

Social media platforms owned by Meta, the parent company of       Facebook and Instagram, attracted the majority of documented       online spending by dark money groups for the 2024 cycle--      about $238 million.

Google and YouTube, which are owned by Alphabet Inc.,       attracted about $66.2 million in dark money over the same       period. Snapchat documented about $7 million. X reported       around $3.9 million in dark money ad spending, though       analysts have raised questions about the completeness of its       data.

Importantly, each online platform makes its own decisions       about how to define reportable political advertising, and       these definitions can shift over time. Other practices,       including what information is provided for ads and the format       in which it is presented, also differ considerably.       Researchers have documented significant gaps in multiple       political ad archives. And even the most comprehensive       archives generally exclude certain categories of spending,       such as payments to influencers for content or political       endorsements, further obscuring the whole picture.                     Direct Spending Reported to the FEC

Nonprofits that do not disclose their donors reported about       $43 million in direct spending to the FEC during the entire       2024 cycle. That amounts to less than 2.5 percent of all dark       money in last year's election. A small portion of this FEC-      disclosed spending went to ads that are also included in TV       and online ad data discussed above, but this analysis avoids       double counting those expenditures.

The $43 million in direct spending is an increase over the       prior cycle. During the 2022 midterms, dark money groups       reported less than $25 million in spending to the FEC, the       lowest total since the Citizens United decision. Spending       reported to the FEC peaked at around $309 million in 2012.       However, as groups switched to a strategy of largely funding       allied super PACs, direct spending reported to the FEC       gradually dropped.                       Spending That Cannot Be Tracked

Several other types of election spending by dark money       groups have not been included in this analysis because they       are difficult or impossible to track. As noted, not all       online platforms release spending data, and none publishes       data on certain forms of expenditures, like paid influencers.

This analysis also does not include data for radio ads that       are not reported to the FEC, and, as mentioned above,       streaming video applications and some TV spending. Other       forms of communication, like billboards and flyers, are also       generally left out of FEC data unless they expressly advocate       for or against a candidate.                             Dark Money by Party

Both Democrats and Republicans benefited from hundreds of       millions of dollars in dark money in 2024. More spending       backed Democrats, as has been the case since the 2018 midterm       elections (before which more dark money typically favored       Republicans). The presidential race was the source of much of       this disparity in last year's cycle.

Overall, dark money groups boosting Democrats put up about       $1.2 billion to influence 2024 elections, while groups       boosting Republicans accounted for about $664 million.                           The Presidential Contest

The presidential election attracted more super PAC       spending--totaling around $2 billion--than any other race in       the 2024 cycle. Political committees supporting Trump or       Harris collectively received more than $500 million from dark       money groups.

Future Forward USA Action, the main dark money group       supporting Joe Biden and then Harris, gave the most. The       501(c)(4) nonprofit poured more than $304 million into       spending on ads and contributions to its closely tied super       PAC, Future Forward USA. That means that $1 out of every $6       from undisclosed sources in the 2024 election cycle came       through a single dark money group.

At the same time, multiple dark money groups also worked to       elect Trump, and the flow of money increased substantially in       the final months of the election cycle. Securing American       Greatness, after its incorporation in March 2024, spent more       than $81 million, about $67 million of which went to super       PACs.

Another major supporter of Trump's presidential bid was       Building America's Future, a 501(c)(4) nonprofit that       reportedly received funding from Musk. It contributed more       than $35 million to super PACs that spent heavily on       seemingly pro-Harris ads falsely suggesting that her campaign       supported divisive policies.                           Congressional Leadership

The presidential election was not the only race to attract       large sums of money from secret donors in 2024. The main dark       money groups aligned with the Democratic and Republican       Parties in Congress spent more than $432 million, up from       about $346 million during the 2022 midterms and $320 million       during the 2020 cycle. These groups are 501(c)(4) nonprofits       that each have ties with party leadership and share staff and       resources with an affiliated super PAC.

Majority Forward, a dark money nonprofit affiliated with       Senate Democratic leadership, poured more than $136 million       into key Senate races. More than $81.7 million of that money       went to Senate Majority PAC, the main super PAC aligned with       Senate Democrats in recent cycles. But unlike prior cycles,       Senate Majority PAC did not spend the funds directly.       Instead, it seeded a new super PAC named WinSenate that spent       the money on ads to influence Senate races.

One Nation, the main dark money group with ties to Senate       Republicans, spent about $123 million in 2024. Of that, $59.3       million went toward advertising, mainly to TV ads. More than       $53 million worth of airtime made One Nation the top dark       money spender on TV ads during the 2024 election cycle,       according to research by the Wesleyan Media Project. One       Nation also steered more than $63 million to an allied super       PAC, the Senate Leadership Fund.

House Republicans' dark money group, the American Action       Network, poured $69 million into the 2024 elections. The main       dark money group affiliated with House Democrats, House       Majority Forward, gave about $61 million to influence       congressional races.                                       Conclusion

Dark money spending in federal elections broke records in       2024, even as it became harder to track. Fueled by Citizens       United, secretive political spending has eroded       accountability and Americans' trust in the political process.       The trend toward secrecy in U.S. campaigns is likely to       continue until Congress takes action to require disclosure of       large political contributions and expenditures.                                 Methodology

The methodology for this analysis yielded a conservative       estimate of dark money in 2024 federal elections by building       on a system created by OpenSecrets to measure dark money in       2020. This approach included an examination of spending       reported to the FEC by groups without disclosed donors, TV ad       data from research conducted in partnership with the Wesleyan       Media Project using Vivvix CMAG data, and online ad data from       major platforms. Spending totals were obtained directly from       Snap and X, then analyzed by the Brennan Center; spending       totals for social media platforms affiliated with Meta and       Google were provided by OpenSecrets, then analyzed by the       Brennan Center. OpenSecrets' viewpoint coding system was used       for any groups that reported independent expenditures or       electioneering communications to the FEC. Some dark money       groups report ad spending to the FEC. To avoid double       counting the amounts reported to the FEC, this analysis       followed a methodology similar to the one applied by       OpenSecrets in 2020: Both online and TV ad spending were       combined into a total figure for each group, which was then       compared against the FEC-reported spending. Only the larger       of the two amounts was used.

Mr. MERKLEY. Dark money hit a record-high $1.9 billion in the 2024  races. That is a sixfold increase in 6 years. That is the rich and  powerful buying their government. It is an absolute travesty.

No one in the founding community of our Nation who wrote the  Declaration of Independence, who wrote the Constitution, wanted to  design a system where the megarich ran the place as a cabal of elites,  but that is what we have, and that is what we have to change.

We saw this with President Trump. On April 11 in 2024, he met with  the fossil fuel executives. He had dinner at Mar-a-Lago. His pitch was  simple: In exchange for $1 billion, he told them, he promised to  prioritize their preferences in the next election.

Well, those fossil fuel leaders delivered hundreds and hundreds of  millions of dollars in election spending and lobbying. And what did  Trump do? He delivered for them. He gave them $18 billion in new and  expanded tax breaks. A pretty good deal, huh? With hundreds of millions  of dollars invested, you get $18 billion in tax breaks.

He penalized their competition. The renewable energy that is cheaper  and cleaner? He put up all kinds of obstacles to favor dirty, more  expensive fossil fuels. He green-lighted LNG terminals. He blocked new  solar and wind. He took the United States out of the Paris climate  accords. That is the example of how this money corrupts.

So everything we are fighting for, for the ordinary person, is being  torched by these megadonations. You saw what Trump calls this Big  Beautiful bill. It was really a big, ugly betrayal of American  families. It proceeded to cut nutrition. It proceeded to cut healthcare  to deliver, well, trillions of dollars of tax breaks for the richest  Americans, and it even will run up the debt by $30 trillion in the next  30 years for those richest Americans. If we are going to change this,  we have to change this dynamic. If we fail, we have really failed in  our oath to the Constitution.

I invite my Republican colleagues to start fighting for a vision of  government by and for the people, not by and for the elite--oligarchs  and the billionaires. Let's save our Republic.