Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I want to provide an opportunity tonight  for us all to stand up for the Constitution, one of the most important  powers that we have here as a Congress, and that is the ability to  design a program and to fund a program. And once that has been signed  into law by a President of the United States, it is the law of the  land. The President has the responsibility to execute that program as  designed and funded.

But back in 1974, we decided to give the President a fast track to  propose that something we have designed and funded should be unfunded.  It is called a rescission, a fancy name for us acting to unfund a  program we previously had put in place.

And here is the thing, that law, the Budget Act of 1974, says that it  takes an affirmative vote of the Senate and of the House of  Representatives to unfund the program that is already in law.

But an unexpected challenge has emerged, and that unexpected  challenge is that if the request from the President to unfund the  program comes within 45 days of the end of the year, even if we were to  act and turn down the rescission, it still means that, under a grace  period in the law, the funds evaporate at the end of the year. So in  other words, with no approval from the House or Senate, no new law  being passed, the existing law is undone on the clock. It is like-- well, it is like Cinderella's coach. It reaches midnight, and the coach  becomes a pumpkin. It falls apart. It disappears.

That is a threat that goes fundamentally to the difference between a  democracy and an autocracy. In a democracy, we come together with all  of our varied experiences, with all of our different parts of the  country, and we say: Here are programs and funding that fit our Nation  as a whole. It is a master compromise. But in an authoritarian  government, one person decides what is funded and what isn't. And that  is what happens in this special power when it is submitted within 45  days of the end of the fiscal year.

So however much one may like or dislike a given President in power,  support or oppose, all of us have a responsibility to stand up for our  constitutional power of the purse; that all of America will be served  by the laws we pass and that if they are to be undone, they have to be  voted on by this Chamber and the Chamber down the hall in an  affirmative fashion.

So I will, at the appropriate moment a minute or two from now,  propose at that point to table an amendment that is in the tree so we  can submit an  amendment that will defend our Constitution, defend article I power,  defend our democracy.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I will be happy to give a portion of that  equally divided by saying simply this: None of us are well served by a  situation where the President decides to cancel programs based on the  President's preferences. That is not a democracy.

And whether it is this President or a future President, we need to  have these rescission requests submitted in time for us to take action  as the law requires.

So submitting them with enough time to spare at the end of the fiscal  year for us to vote up or down is the right thing to do. It protects  our constitutional power to design and fund programs.

Mr. MERKLEY.  3946 for the purpose of  offering my amendment No. 3948 to defend our constitutional power of  the purse and the importance of our democracy in ensuring that what we  put into law stays in law unless we choose to change it.

Mr. MERKLEY. I really ask my colleagues, particularly on this side,  to hear me out on this.

The Senators from Kentucky and Oregon cooperated to create the first  research on hemp. We cooperated to give the first opportunity to move  research seeds across State lines. We cooperated and pushed to create  hemp as a legitimate agricultural product.

CBD derived from hemp has been approved by the FDA for treating  seizures. It is a legal medicine. We would wipe out an industry that we  have spent more than a decade creating.

The advocates for this language that is in the bill will tell you  this won't affect CBD. Every expert I have consulted has said that that  is exactly wrong; that this will, in fact, wipe out 95 to 99 percent of  the industry.

My colleague from Kentucky is exactly right. We asked our farmers to  engage in this research, and we asked them to build this industry. We  should protect it for CBD.

I support my other colleague from Kentucky, who doesn't want  intoxicated products produced from hemp. The definition that is in this  bill does far more than that, and it has to be fixed. So, for now, it  needs to be stripped out.

Please support Senator Paul's position.