Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I walked outside across the Capitol  grounds, and it is such a beautiful day. The cherry blossom trees are  blooming. There were mothers with young children, 3- and 4-year-old  children, playing on the grass, and it seemed like just so idyllic, so  perfect. It seemed like nothing could be wrong in America. 

  But, in fact, so much is wrong in America. Our everyday rhythm of  life has been shattered. We are facing a medical pandemic and an  economic collapse: K-12 schools, closed; universities, shut down;  grocery stores, empty; restaurants, locked; gyms, movie theaters, music  venues, closed for business. 

  The reverberations of so many core businesses and core retail being  shut are affecting virtually every family and every small business  across this country. So many forms of commerce are grinding to a halt.  The economy is imploding, and it is touching the workers and it is  touching those small businesses. Workers are experiencing the reality  of reduced hours, lost shifts, layoffs; and they don't know when they  are going to be able to pick up that work again. 

  Then, they are not sure how they are going to pay their utilities.  How are they going to pay their rent? How are they going to pay their  mortgage? And when will America and the economy start to heal, and when  will they be able to go back to work? 

  So the American people are anxious and worried, rightly, about the  threat of the disease and worried, rightly, about the collapse of the  economy. 

  Coronavirus is marching on America. As of yesterday--or, actually, as  of this morning--we have almost 6,000 cases here in our United States  of America--5,881 cases as of this moment. Compare that to a week ago.  We are talking about 1,200 cases a week ago. That is a five-fold  increase in a week. 

  We now have more than 50 States affected--all the States, Puerto  Rico, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Then, we can ponder the fact  that the number of deaths has gone up--51 deaths compared to in the  thirties a week ago. 

  So the coronavirus is marching on America and marching on the  economy. It is a double hammer affecting families and small business,  and it is particularly appropriate at this moment to share with all of  you the stories of small businesses in my home State that are being  impacted. 

  More than 40 businesses sent in their stories, and I am going to  share 6 or 7 of those stories. But as we think about how we proceed, we  need to recognize that this recovery needs to be one where we invest in  the foundation of our economy, we invest in the families, we invest  with sick leave, we invest with unemployment insurance, we invest by  covering the health costs of getting tests and the cost of getting  treatment, and we invest in our small businesses. 

  Not so long ago we had a bailout that favored big business, and big  business went on to make billions of dollars and then get a massive tax  break in 2017. 

  Right now, the airlines are asking for a $50 billion bailout, but  they have spent almost $50 billion in stock buyouts over the last few  years because they were so profitable. And why did they do stock  buyouts? Because it increased the value of the stock options of the  corporate executives in that industry. 

  This is a version of private gain and public pain. When a business  says, ``During the good times I will keep all that money; thank you  very much for not charging me any taxes to maintain our infrastructure  or our military or our medical care system, and then, when we hit a  hard time, we will ask to be bailed out''--so we will have  conversations about that strategy for big business. 

  How about, instead, we focus on the families and the pain they are  feeling, and focus on the small businesses and the challenges they are  facing? 

  We need a Main Street recovery, not a Wall Street bailout. We need an  economy rebuilt from the bottom up, not from Wall Street down--small  businesses, like Bargaritas, a small Mexican restaurant in Ontario, OR.  It is a great place for people to gather for a meal, and unlike nearby  fast food restaurants, they aren't known for their takeout. 

  But to combat the virus, the State of Oregon has shut down sit-down  restaurants and asked them to go to takeout only. Well, that is taking  a toll on Bargaritas. When a couple came recently in the door and sat  down for a meal, the restaurant staff had to explain that they could  make their meal for them, but they would have to make it to go. The  couple got up, and they didn't order to go. They walked out the door. 

  The owner of Bargaritas notes that they are just struggling to keep  their restaurant open, that business is not coming in enough to pay the  workers. So if things don't pick up quickly, he is going to have to  close and ask his employees to file for unemployment. 

  Or how about the Paddington family of stores in Ashland, OR, in  business since 1973? In recent years they have endured all kinds of  challenges, including a couple of summers in which wildfire smoke  created major challenges for the businesses in Ashland, OR. But things  were looking pretty good this year. Business was going OK. 

  Now, however, the owner says they ``felt [their] world crumble in  March with the threat of the coronavirus changing our world.'' They  have laid off eight staff members just this week. That is 30 percent of  their staff. In a single day, their sales dropped 50 percent. As things  are going now, they will need to lay off more staff within the next few  weeks if the business climate does not change. 

  And the story is much the same for the retailers throughout the town  of Ashland, OR.  

  The story is similar in Portland, where Betsy and Iya, a company that  has designed and manufactured jewelry for the past 12 years and  regularly employs about 17 workers, had to downsize. They had to ask  three of their workers to be let go 

  This is a business that has gone out of its way to promote other  local businesses, but sales have dropped off very quickly. I would  presume that in this sense of crisis, families are buying essentials,  and that means those in the jewelry industry are seeing their sales  drop. The sales have dropped very quickly, and they are seeing the  virus's huge economic impacts, and they are expecting to have to lay  off more people soon, and they are looking for help. 

  Ultrazone Laser Tag--now, you might think that, with folks being out  of work, they might go to a place to get some exercise and have some  recreation, and a sense of separation might be OK. Maybe laser tag  would see an upsurge in sales--not the case. Lee Sturman, of Ultrazone  Laser Tag, in Milwaukie says:  

       My name is Lee Sturman, and I am the owner of Ultrazone       Laser Tag, a family entertainment center Located in       Milwaukie, Oregon. As the founder, I have successfully       operated for 26 years. During this time, like all small       business owners, I have battled competitors and overcome       other challenging obstacles. On a level playing field, I have       managed to survive and thrive. But, unfortunately, my       business has been upended by an invasion of tiny microbes.       COVID-19 has struck fast and struck hard. In a matter of two       weeks, Ultrazone has gone from busy crowds to near emptiness.  

  Steve and Kristi Ball operate Basin Indoor Gardening in Klamath  Falls, OR. In response to the Klamath County Chamber of Commerce  collecting stories of the financial impact that COVID-19 is having on  local businesses, they submitted the following and appreciate the  opportunity to share, and I appreciate the fact that they responded and  are sharing. Steve and Kristi note:  

       [They have] owned a small retail business in downtown       Klamath Falls for nearly 11 years so have experience with       seasonal fluctuations and customer trends that affect the       cash flow and overall revenues of my store. Things have been       shockingly slow since the beginning of March but especially       this last week where customer traffic has almost halted.       Based on last years total for March and daily sales compared       to this years same time frame my store gross sales are down       to about 36% of normal, indicating 64% loss in revenues. I       hope this is a short lived situation and business can go back       to what is normal, more than a month like this will force       some difficult decisions for the future of my store.  

  April Severson of Portland writes:  

       I've owned my event production company for 20-years. My       business has always had it's ups and downs but this is the       first time I've had all of my contracts cancelled. I am the       sole employee of my company however, my cancelled contracts       have also cancelled the work for my associates and vendors in       audio-visual, entertainment, decor, furniture rentals, floral       and catering. Since most of my vendors are small and emerging       businesses as well this has had a spiraling effect on our       ability to pay for bills, insurance, mortgages and to take       care of our families.  

  Amy Baker is the owner of Thread Bare Press in Eugene, and she notes:  

       My screen printing business relies primarily on schools,       restaurants and events to keep our T-shirt presses running.       On Friday March 13th as the stock market tanked and major       cultural centers shut down across the country, I saw a third       of our monthly revenue vanish in one day. In the five days       since, my email inbox has remained empty as our client base       struggles to shore up their expenses. I have laid off half of       my six staff this week and have let the rest know that next       week they will temporarily not have a job. It's hard to feel       like so many people depend on me for their paychecks, let       alone my own children that depend on me for our own       livelihood. I have helped my staff apply for unemployment,       but there is no unemployment for business owners. We are a       small business that essentially lives week to week based on       our clients. In a perfect world there would be money to pay       my staff paid leave or savings to sustain myself while we       close our doors for what I estimate to be a month. However,       we are not in that position. What I'm hoping for is to ride       out this storm with forgiveness on my own bills and expenses       that will not get paid next month. I'll need emergency, low       interest capital to get back to work and bring my staff back       on. 

  Then we have all of our State's music venues, like Mississippi  Studios and the historic Liberty Theater in Astoria and the Ashland  Shakespeare Festival in Ashland. All of them are in danger of going out  of business. With social distancing and prohibitions on large  gatherings and a sudden cancellation of musical acts, the venues are  experiencing a sudden and total loss of income. 

  Those stories are representative of things happening all over my  State and I know in every State of the United States of America. The  economy is imploding, and with each and every small business that can't  pay its bills, it affects other small businesses and other larger  businesses. It affects those who have rental housing and those who have  mortgages. All of us are going to be touched. 

  That is why it is going to be so important that we turn to this third  stage of response by the U.S. Senate. The first stage was to shore up  the healthcare industry. The second stage was some immediate help with  sick leave and unemployment insurance and food assistance and free  testing for the coronavirus. That bill inexplicably has been sitting  untended in this Chamber. Why aren't all 100 of us here debating it  before the American people and voting on it? 

  I am told now that maybe, possibly, the bill may come to the floor  this afternoon; that some deal will be worked out. Wouldn't it be  better that we actually be on the floor talking about it, discussing  it, and voting on amendments, if necessary? In a perfect world, I would  like to pass it just the way the House sent it to us and get it into  law immediately. The President has signed on, the House has signed on.  You have Republican leadership and Democratic leadership. Why is this  Chamber not acting? 

  Then we must immediately go to this broader strategy--the stimulus to  support our economy through this collapse to try to keep the collapse  from being as severe and shortening the period before it can be  restored. That period is going to depend a lot on how successful we are  at interrupting the course of this disease. That is why this is so  important--social distancing is so important. We have to stop the  disease from moving from one person to another. The disease is on the  march against America, and we have to interrupt it. We have to bring it  to a standstill. 

  Meanwhile, we have to help those families and businesses being so  profoundly affected across America. Let's rebuild this economy from the  bottom up, paying attention to the impact on families and the impact on  our small businesses. As John F. Kennedy once put it, ``In a time of  domestic crisis, men of goodwill and generosity should be able to unite  regardless of party or politics.'' That is what we did after 9/11. That  is exactly what must happen today. 

  Let us not be moved by the powerful and the wealthy to give yet more  wealth and power to them. Let us be moved by the fact that we are all  Americans in this together. Let us tend to the fundamental needs of  healthcare and housing and education and, most importantly, good jobs  as those jobs disappear across America. 

  Let's pay attention and work together to shore up small businesses  with low-interest loans and with grants to see them and their employees  through this difficult time. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT