H.R. 1


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693857/hr-1


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, on July 1, 2025, the Senate passed H.R.  1, which is nothing more than one big, beautiful, betrayal for  Americans across the country. This bill slashes healthcare for 17  million Americans by gutting Medicaid and dismantling the Affordable  Care Act. It shuts down rural hospitals, it takes food away from more  than 4 million hungry children, it makes college more expensive  for families, and it ends clean energy investments to fight climate  chaos. All to make tax cuts permanent and help billionaires get richer.

And if that isn't bad enough, it destroys the architecture of fiscal  discipline put in place 51 years ago and explodes the debt by $3.3  trillion over 10 years and by more than $30 trillion over 30 years-- again, all in pursuit of making billionaires richer.

And if those eye-popping debt numbers aren't alarming enough, CBO  projects that if interest rates go up by as little as 1 percent, the  costs could double. This is the most fiscally irresponsible bill ever  to come to the Senate floor and wasn't supposed to be possible after  Congress passed the 1974 Budget Control and Impoundment Act.

In 1974, addressing the deficit was such a bipartisan priority that  the Budget Act created a special filibuster-free fast-track process,  known as reconciliation, for the sole purpose of reducing the deficit.  That is right, the original purpose of reconciliation was to reduce the  deficit.

The reconciliation process was built on three pillars. First, a  reconciliation bill cannot create deficits in the first 10 years.  Second, a reconciliation bill can't increase the deficit in any year  after the first 10 years. And third, it should be measured using honest  numbers from the independent, nonpartisan, scorekeepers.

So how did we go from every Senator voting for a special process for  deficit reduction in 1974, to almost every Republican, the party who  claims to support fiscal responsibility, supporting a 2025  reconciliation bill that adds tens of trillions to the debt?

It started in 1996, when the Republicans wanted to pass tax giveaways  for the wealthy and didn't have the required 60 votes so they turned to  the reconciliation process. Except they had one problem, reconciliation  wasn't supposed to increase the deficit in the first 10 years. Instead  of finding a compromise, the Republicans decided to change the rules  and allow a reconciliation bill to increase the deficit in the first 10  years. That was the end of pillar one, and the reconciliation process  has been abused in the same way ever since--for the 2001 Bush tax cuts,  the 2003 Bust tax cuts, and the 2017 Trump cuts.

But pillar two and pillar three were still standing. That is, until  now. In the Republican's never-ending quest to make billionaires  richer, they once again changed the rules. This time in order to hide  the true cost of this bill. In doing so, pillar two and pillar three  collapsed and all remaining remnants of fiscal discipline with it.

During consideration of H.R. 1, Senate Republicans upended decades of  law and precedent and allowed the Budget Committee chair to abuse the  authority under section 312 of the Budget Act to determine violations  of section 313 of the Budget Act, also known as the Byrd Rule.

I recognize that section 312 of the Budget Act gives the Budget chair  scorekeeping duties. Read in isolation, or with no understanding of  past precedent, section 312 could appear to be unlimited. But it is  not. The authority in section 312 must be read in combination with  other provisions of the Budget Act, with other budget laws, and with  Senate precedent, particularly in relationship to the Byrd Rule as it  always has been.

I do not dispute that when bills are considered under regular order,  it is the Budget Committee chair's responsibility to determine what  numeric budget points of order lie. However, the Budget Committee chair  has never determined whether provisions of a reconciliation bill comply  with the Byrd Rule, that has always been the responsibility of the  Parliamentarian's office.

And why is the Byrd Rule so unique from other budget enforcement  tools? It is unique where it applies--just in the Senate, and not the  House; it is unique when it applies--only for reconciliation, a fast  track process, not regular order; it is unique how it applies and is  adjudicated--a formal litigation where the Parliamentarian's office  issues guidance based on written and oral arguments and nonpartisan  current law scoring estimates.

It is not normal budget enforcement. Why is that? Because  reconciliation is a fast track process, and Senators, with eyes wide  open, voted to impose these strict guardrails on this process.

The majority's assertion of 312 authority also runs counter to  section 257 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act,  which defines the current law baseline. The section 257 baseline, as it  is called, has been the foundation for the nonpartisan cost estimates  for the past 40 years, estimates produced by the independent  scorekeepers: the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee  on Taxation. The Senate has never, before consideration of H.R. 1, used  cost estimates based on something other than the section 257 baseline  to assess reconciliation legislation for compliance with the Byrd Rule.

To reiterate: in developing their guidance under the Byrd Rule, the  Parliamentarian's office has never--never--used cost estimates other  than those based on the section 257 baseline. With the majority's  actions on H.R.1, Republicans have dealt the remaining pillars of  reconciliation a fatal blow.

While section 312 has never been used in reconciliation, I agree that  it has been used in regular order. But I want to make clear that use of  section 312 authority, up until now, has only been invoked when the  issue at hand was narrow, technical, often bipartisan, involved  relatively small amounts of money, and was done in regular order.

For example, during the bipartisan ``side deal'' between Leader  Schumer and Speaker Johnson for the fiscal year 2024 appropriations  process, Democratic Senate Budget Committee Chair Whitehouse and  Republican House Budget Committee Chair Arrington included a direction  to CBO to use the Office of Management and Budget's estimate of housing  receipts, which allowed for an extra $2.8 billion in offsets for that  package.

In 2023, when the Agriculture Committee wanted to extend a dairy  provision, CBO's initial estimate counted the same spending twice.  Again, Democratic Chair Whitehouse and Republican Chair Arrington used  the section 312 authority in a bipartisan manner to instruct CBO to  conform to the way it originally scored the program.

On a bipartisan basis during the fiscal years 2023-2025  appropriations cycles, Budget chairs have directed CBO to score  appropriations language related to the Purchase Power and Wheeling  activities of three Federal Power Marketing Administrations consistent  with a 2000 bipartisan scorekeeping agreement that CBO had recently  deviated from.

By far the most common use of section 312 authority over the past  decade relates to directing CBO to follow legislative text commonly  included in omnibus legislation to allocate the budgetary effects to  the proper committee.

These examples all illustrate how section 312 allows the Budget chair  to step in to address scoring issues and resolve ambiguities. In all  cases, these efforts have been narrowly applied and concerned discrete  polices with limited budgetary impacts.

And again, in none of these examples was the Senate considering a  reconciliation bill.

During debate on H.R.1, the majority has also falsely claimed  precedent exists for their actions. I will now explain why each  instance the Republicans cite is clearly distinguishable from their  current abuse of section 312 authority.

Senator Graham, the current chair of the Budget Committee, claimed  that former Budget Chair Kent Conrad ``used a new baseline in the  budget so he could get the farm bill in the budget.'' This is a  mischaracterization. In 2008, during Farm Bill negotiations, Budget  Chair Conrad chose not to apply an updated CBO baseline while the bill  was in conference committee. Over the course of the prior year, both  the House and Senate had passed a Farm Bill and having to change all  the numbers during conference negotiations would have undone a year's  worth of work. There is also longstanding precedent to not update for  new baseline estimates at the last minute when a bill that has been  carefully negotiated is nearing completion. Further, Chair Conrad used  a current law baseline to measure the farm bill. This was not a scoring  manipulation meant to skirt the guardrails of a fast-track process.

Second, the majority has repeatedly referred to the Obama  administration's supposed use of a current policy baseline to score a  tax bill in 2012 that extended most of the expiring Bush tax  cuts. At the time, the Obama administration's Office of Management and  Budget produced a ``current policy'' score that they used when publicly  talking about the benefits of the bill. It served a purely messaging  purpose. Congress did not--I repeat, did not--use a current policy  baseline for official budget enforcement purposes in the Senate.  Congress used the current law score from CBO. This bill also passed  under regular order, not reconciliation.

Another example cited by the majority party is former Budget Chair  Bernie Sanders including a scoring rule for childcare and pre- kindergarten legislation in the fiscal year 2022 budget resolution.  This scoring rule did not override current law; rather it forced CBO to  conform to current law as laid out in section 257. This Head Start  scoring rule was isolated to one program that affected $18 billion over  10 years and was never ultimately used.

Before it was further amended on the Senate floor, the Senate  reconciliation bill added $3.3 trillion to the deficit over the 10-year  budget window. By abusing the authority under section 312, the  Republicans claim that H.R. 1 actually saves $500 billion. The Finance  Committee title alone adds $3.5 trillion to the deficit over the 10- year budget window. But the Republican's claim, alleging section 312  authority, that the Finance title actually saves $300 billion and thus  meets its reconciliation instruction.

The blatant abuse of claiming section 312 authority to determine H.R.  1 complied with section 313 of the Budget Act is unprecedented,  overrides current law, and will forever change the Senate. And it was  all done to further an agenda of families lose, billionaires win.