Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, as Senators, our decisions build the  foundation for future generations. I want those generations to know  that I stood here on the floor of this Chamber fighting for equal  justice under law. I stood here to defend our Senate's responsibility  to provide a fair trial with witnesses and documents. I stood here to  say that when our President invites and pressures a foreign government  to smear a political opponent and corrupt the integrity of our 2020  Presidential election, he must be removed from office. 

  As a number of my Republican colleagues have confessed, the House  managers have proven their case. President Trump did sanction a corrupt  conspiracy to smear a political opponent, former Vice President Joe  Biden. President Trump assigned Rudy Giuliani, his personal lawyer, to  accomplish that goal by arranging sham investigations by the Government  of Ukraine. President Trump advanced his corrupt scheme by instructing  the three amigos--Ambassador Volker, Secretary of Energy Rick Perry,  and Ambassador Gordon Sondland--to work with Rudy for this goal.  President Trump did use the resources of America, including an Oval  Office meeting and security assistance to pressure Ukraine, which was  at war with Russia, to participate in this corrupt conspiracy. The  facts are clear. 

  But do President Trump's acts rise to the level the Framers  envisioned for removal of a President, or are they, as some colleagues  in this Chamber have said, simply "inappropriate,'' but not  "impeachable''? With respect to those colleagues, "inappropriate'' is  lying to the public; "inappropriate'' is shunning our allies or  failing to put your personal assets into a blind trust or encouraging  foreign governments to patronize your properties. That is something you  might call "inappropriate,'' but that word does not begin to encompass  President Trump's actions in this case--a corrupt conspiracy comprising  a fundamental assault on our Constitution. 

  This conspiracy is far worse than Watergate. Watergate was about a  break-in to spy on the Democratic National Committee--bad, yes; wrong,  definitely. But Watergate didn't involve soliciting foreign  interference to destroy the integrity of an election. It didn't involve  an effort to smear a political opponent. Watergate did not involve an  across-the-board blockade of access by Congress to witnesses and  documents.  

  If you believe that Congress was right to conclude that President  Nixon's abuse of power merited expulsion from office, you have no  choice but to conclude that President Trump's corrupt conspiracy merits  his expulsion from office. 

  President Trump should be removed from office this very day by action  in this very Chamber, but he will not be removed because this Senate  has failed to conduct a full and fair trial to reveal the extensive  dimensions of his conspiracy and because the siren call to party  loyalty over country has infected this Chamber. 

  Every American understands what constitutes a full and fair trial. A  full and fair trial has witnesses. A full and fair trial has documents.  A full and fair trial does not begin with the jury foreman declaring  that he is working hand-in-glove with the defendant. When discussing  why the Senate tries impeachments, Alexander Hamilton stated: "Where  else than in the Senate could have been found a tribunal sufficiently  dignified, or sufficiently independent'' for that daunting  responsibility? 

  Every American should feel the sadness, the darkness, the tragedy of  this moment in which this Senate is neither sufficiently dignified nor  sufficiently independent for that responsibility. 

  The Senate trial became a coverup when the majority voted on January  22 and again on January 31 to block all access to witnesses and  documents. If this coverup goes forward, it will be the latest in a set  of corrupt firsts this Senate has achieved under Republican leadership. 

  It has been the first Senate to ignore our constitutional  responsibilities to debate and vote on a Supreme Court nominee in 2016.  It became the first Senate to complete the theft of a Supreme Court  seat from one administration giving it to another in 2017. 

  And now, it becomes the first Senate in American history to replace  an impeachment trial with a coverup. President Trump might want to  consider this: With a coverup in lieu of a trial, there is no  "exoneration,'' no matter how badly President Trump might want it. No  matter how boldly he might claim it, there is no "exoneration'' from a  coverup. 

  If this Senate fails to convict President Trump when we vote later  today, we destroy our constitutional responsibility to serve as a check  against the abuses of a runaway President. It is a devastating blow to  the checks and balances which have stood at the heart of our  Constitution. 

  Our tripartite system is like a three-legged stool, where each leg  works in balance with the others. If one leg is cracked or weakened,  well, that stool topples over. If the Senate's responsibility is gutted  and the limits on Presidential power are undermined, then, there is  lasting damage to the checks and balances our Founders so carefully  crafted. 

  Let's also be clear. The situation that we find ourselves in today  didn't spring out of nowhere. With respect to the Chief Justice, the  road to this moment has been paved by decisions made in the Supreme  Court undermining the "We the People'' Republic, while Justice Roberts  has led the Court--decisions like Citizens United in 2010, which  corrupted our political campaigns with a flood of dark money, the  equivalent of a stadium sound system drowning out the voice of the  people; decisions like Shelby County in 2013, which gutted the Voting  Rights Act, opening the door to voter suppression and voter  intimidation--if you believe in our Republic, you believe in voter  empowerment, not voter supression--decisions like Rucho V. Common Cause  in 2019, giving the green light to extreme partisan gerrymandering, in  which politicians choose their voters rather than voters choosing their  politicians. It is one blow after another giving more power to the  powerful and undermining the vision of government of, by, and for the  people--blow after blow making officials more responsive to the rich  and wealthy donors than the people they are elected to represent. 

  These Supreme Court decisions have elevated government by and for the  powerful, and trampled government by and for the people, paving the  path for this dark moment in which the U.S. Senate chooses to defend a  corrupt President by converting a trial into a coverup. A trial without  access to witnesses and documents is what one expects of a corrupted  court in Russia or China, not the United States of America. 

  We know what democracy looks like, and it is not just about having  the Constitution or holding elections. Our democracy is not set in  stone. It is not guaranteed by anything other than the good will and  good faith of the people of this country. Keeping a democracy takes  courage and commitment. As the saying goes, "freedom isn't free.'' It  is an inheritance bequeathed to us by those who have fought and bled  and died to ensure that government "of the people, by the people, for  the people shall not perish from the Earth.'' 

  Fighting for that inheritance doesn't only happen on the battlefield.  It happens when Americans everywhere go to the polls to cast a ballot.  It happens when ordinary citizens, distraught at what they are seeing,  speak up, join a march, or run for office to make a difference. And it  happens here in this Chamber--in this Senate Chamber--when Senators put  addressing the challenges of our country over the pressures from their  party. 

  Before casting their votes today, I urge each and every one of my  colleagues to ask themselves: Will you defend the integrity of our  elections? Will you deliver impartial justice? Will you protect the  separation of powers--the heart of our Constitution? Will you uphold  the rule of law and the inspiring words carved above the doors of our  Supreme Court, "Equal Justice Under Law''? 

  I stand here today in support of our Constitution, which has made our  Nation that shining city on a hill. I stand here today for equal  justice under law. I stand here today for a full and fair trial as our  Constitution demands. I stand here today to say that a President who  has abused this office by soliciting a foreign country to intervene in  the election of 2020 and bias the outcome--betraying the trust of the  American people and undermining the strength of our Constitution--must  be removed from office. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT