Letter to the Hon. Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and the Hon. Charles Schumer, Senate Minority Leader - Merkley, Colleagues Call for Increased Investment in Education in Upcoming Coronavirus Relief Legislation


Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer:

We write to urge you to include, in any upcoming legislation designed to provide additionalrelief to Americans during the COVID-19 pandemic, significant additional support for ournation's schools. While the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Actincluded an Education Stabilization Fund to provide immediate support, we continue to see thechallenges our states and school districts face on a daily basis and the impact this pandemic willhave on education budgets over the next 18 months. Less than 1% of the CARES Act fundingwas specifically dedicated to supporting public schools. This is insufficient to stabilize educationthrough this crisis. We are particularly concerned about how the educator workforce and otherschool personnel will be impacted by COVID-19.

School districts rely almost entirely on state and local revenue. Low-wealth districts rely themost heavily on state aid and will be most impacted by the economic implications of this crisis.It is our duty to ensure that children receive the education they are rightfully entitled to. Studentscannot learn if their schools are forced to downsize operations, eliminate teaching positions incritical subjects, or lay off other critical support staff such as social workers and counselors, dueto depleted budgets.

The U.S. economy is expected to contract by six percent in 2021, changing the lives of all Americans in dramatic ways that are not yet fully known. One thing is certain however, students will still need to continue learning and progressing through school. Our nation's teachers are crucial to ensuring that learning can continue, yet current projections expect the reductions in education spending due to the pandemic to be two and a half times worse than the lowest point of the last recession. 

It is not just teachers who will be impacted by these shrinking education budgets. Countless cafeteria workers, school bus drivers, counselors, and other support staff are expected to take a dramatic hit during this pandemic. Our students cannot meet their full potential without the many professionals that make their schools work for them day in and day out. 

As local communities and school districts see their revenue shrink, they will be forced to look atstaffing cuts, as salaries and benefits comprise the majority of school budgets. As a result of thiscrisis, Learning Policy Institute estimates that if states experience a 20% decline in revenue,without federal intervention, about 460,000 educator positions will be eliminated. Congressmust invest now to stabilize the public education sector and fill the current gaps in our educationworkforce and prevent an even more dire shortage in the years to come.

In addition to focusing on our educator workforce in any upcoming economic relief package, weurge you to continue to help schools to address learning loss facing our most disadvantagedstudents and ensure that all students with disabilities can continue to access the Free AppropriatePublic Education to which they are entitled. We therefore urge you to provide substantial,flexible additional investments through Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Actand the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. Finally, if the next funding package includesinfrastructure provisions, we urge you to explicitly include K-12 schools as eligible recipients forfunds.

Thank you for your consideration of this important matter.