Letter to the Hon. Jerome Powell, Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System -  Tlaib, Merkley Lead Bicameral Letter Opposing Fed Bailout of Oil and Gas Industry


Dear Chair Powell:

We are deeply troubled at the Federal Reserve Board's (the Board) April 30th decision to expandthe Main Street Lending Program (the Program) to larger, more highly leveraged, and otherwiseriskier businesses. This appears to be a back-door bailout of the oil and gas sector, done at theurging of President Trump. We request that you undo this lending facility's expansion and refrainfrom engaging in future actions targeted at any industry, especially the oil and gas industry.

Expansion of the Program appears designed explicitly to provide support to companies facingsignificant challenges relating to their short and long-term solvency, and bail out the privateinvestors in these failing ventures. The oil and gas sector is among the worst performers.The domestic shale industry in particular has long struggled with high levels of debt and consistentlynegative free cash flow. Fracking requires low-interest rates, externalized costs and high oil pricesto be financially viable. The fossil fuel business model was unviable before the COVID-19pandemic. We strongly oppose the weakening of lending standards for existing facilities if theintent is, or appears to be, to increase eligibility for oil and gas companies and their investors.

We will fiercely resist any efforts to have the Federal Reserve System take on additional risk inthe Main Street Lending Program, or through any other existing or new Special Purpose Vehicle(SPV) for oil and gas. Doing so would deploy limited CARES Act funding to gamble on risky betsdesigned to save oil and gas companies and bail out their investors. This will starve municipalitiesand other "eligible businesses" identified in section 4003(c) of the CARES Act, which now risk being robbed of remaining stimulus funds by a disproportionate investment in fossil fuels andwindfall bailouts to their investors. The Main Street Lending Program's apparent oil and gasexpansion plays into the public's worst assumptions about crony capitalism and the dangerous lackof urgency for limiting emissions causing climate chaos.

An independent Federal Reserve should guard itself against the intense lobbying and politicalpressure, even that brought by the President. The fossil fuel sector has known for decades that theirproducts cause climate chaos, and in response, have spent billions of dollars lobbying andobfuscating instead of investing in truly green and renewable energy. Fossil fuel companies createa disproportionate amount of the carbon dioxide emissions that fuel climate chaos, and new studiessuggest that the atmospheric effects of fossil methane emissions - created by fracking andresponsible for at least 25% of global heating - have been dramatically underestimated andreported. These companies have created systemic-level risks to the U.S. financial system. Anyfurther actions by the Fed to rescue the industry may as such conflict with its financial stabilitymission as well.

The stimulus provisions of the CARES Act were designed to support municipalities, states andbusinesses hit hard by the coronavirus. By turning the CARES Act into a fund for corporatepolluters whose economic woes predate the crisis you are undermining the intent of the law. Peopleacross the country who have lost jobs and health care are crying out for direct relief, not for theFederal Reserve to bailout oil executives and invest in accelerating climate chaos.