Letter to Caryn Seidman Becker, Chairman & CEO of CLEAR - Merkley, Booker Press Biometric Identificiation Company to Ensure Americans' Privacy is Protected Amid Coronavirus


Dear Ms. Seidman Becker:

We write to inquire about data privacy practices and precautions taken for CLEAR's newproduct, Health Pass.

As the nation yields to the unique circumstances brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, anumber of initiatives have been launched with the important goal of allowing our businesses toreopen safely and getting families back to work in a manner consistent with guidance issued bythe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Consumers are looking with particularanticipation what steps the travel, entertainment, and food service industries -- among others --will take to ensure their safety in a post COVID-19 world.

CLEAR recently announced its new product, Health Pass, which would provide consumers withthe ability verify one's identity by taking a selfie, and to verify one's health by taking a quizregarding possible COVID-19 symptoms, and operating separately from efforts around contacttracing. In addition to airports, restaurants, venues, and other places of business will be able toutilize this service by requiring identity and health verification before a customer may board aplane, pass through security, or enter a place of business.

While we appreciate CLEAR's contribution to the discussion of safely reopening our nation'seconomy, the use of facial recognition technology poses real privacy concerns. Though there aresome potential benefits and expediencies, this technology can also be utilized widely andpassively in such a way that eludes consumers' awareness, permission, or the ability to opt out. Ifover or misused, facial recognition technology risks a state of undetectable, constant governmentsurveillance that can track one's movements and associations with organizations such as schoolsand places of worship.

Equally concerning is the risk associated with the collection of the personally identifiableinformation of millions of American consumers. On February 26, 2020, Clearview AI, atechnology company whose main service provides facial recognition software, announced that itlost its entire client list as a result of a data breach. This breach of a company whose databasecontains more than three billion photos raises legitimate concern about the heightened risks ofpotential cyberattacks on facial recognition technology companies.

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to require swift action and innovative solutions to protectthe health of Americans and work to save local and national economies, however it should notenable or encourage reliance on technology that could intentionally or unintentionally threatenthe privacy and security of millions of consumers, nor should that technology operate without appropriate protections for its consumers. For these reasons, we request your response to thefollowing questions:

1. What steps has CLEAR taken to ensure the privacy and security of its customers?2. Does CLEAR collect data concerning their customers? If so, what personally identifiableinformation or location data is collected, and for how long may this data be retained?3. Does CLEAR buy, sell or otherwise transfer personally identifiable information orlocation data to other entities, including both private sector and government agencies?4. If CLEAR does collect data concerning their customers, does CLEAR claim ownershipof any personally identifiable information or location data it may collect?5. If CLEAR does collect data concerning their customers, does CLEAR provide customerswith the ability to delete their personal data or prohibit future collection of personallyidentifiable information or location data?6. Besides expediting identity verification, please explain why facial recognitiontechnology/iris scanning technology are necessary to determine whether an individualhas or displays symptoms consistent with COVID-19 (fever, coughing, shortness ofbreath, etc.)7. Does CLEAR easily allow for alternative methods to verify identity, such as QR codes?8. In reaction to a National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) report on theaccuracy of facial recognition technology, what steps has CLEAR taken to assess biasesin its technology? Has CLEAR submitted its technology to NIST's Face RecognitionVendor Test for an evaluation?

We appreciate your attention to these questions in advance and request a response no later than30 days from your receipt of this letter.