Merkley, Wyden Announce $1.2 Million in Grants for Tribal Housing Improvements


Oregon's U.S. Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden announced that $1.2 million in grants will be distributed to the Confederated Tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians and the Confederated Tribes of the Grande Ronde to boost critical housing improvement and repair projects.

The funding is administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), under the Indian Community Development Block Grant program.

"This public health emergency has made access to a safe and accessible home all the more important," said Merkley. "I'm pleased that this funding will help provide urgently-needed resources to victims of domestic violence and also make Tribal housing units livable for native elders. I'm going to do everything I can to fight for the funding Tribal communities need to get through this crisis, and to thrive long after this challenging chapter ends."

"Tribal housing must always be high-priority business, but especially now when COVID-19 poses such major public health and economic challenges in Oregon and nationwide," Wyden said. "I'm glad these federal resources are available to help with key housing improvements and repairs that improve quality of life for Tribal members. Much more needs to be done on this front, and I am committed to that battle during the coronavirus crisis and in the years ahead."

The Confederated Tribes of the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians will use their funding to rehabilitate 19 Tribal Housing units to enhance their livability, sustainability, and accessibility by making elder restrooms accessible, replacing roofing and windows, and installing energy efficiency upgrades and heatless duct pumps.

The Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde's grant will fund the construction of a 2,000 square foot domestic violence addition to their Community Service Center. The new space will include four offices, an interview room, child room, group room, and bathrooms.