Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 54


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692355/motion-to-discharge-sj-res-54


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, President Trump is engaged in massive  corruption. There is a ``government for sale'' sign flashing its lights  on the lawn of the White House. He is selling access and influence  through two types of cryptocoins: a meme coin which is a digital  baseball card, and he invited the 220 people who gave him the most  money for these digital baseball cards called a meme coin to come to a  dinner where he would feed them at his fancy Virginia golf club, held 2  weeks ago.

And he said: Oh, and the top 25 buyers of my meme coin, those buyers  will get some other special access and special tour.

And 220 people gave the President $148 million, approximately, and  they didn't give him $148 million in order to have a digital baseball  card. They gave it because he was conveying that this would give you  access and influence.

As the president of Freight Technologies, Inc., said, I bought $2  million of these coins. I am hoping to buy $20 million of these coins  because I want the President to change a policy related to freight  transportation between Mexico and the United States of America.

That CEO was saying out loud what everyone else understood: that the  President was selling access and influence.

And that is not all. There is another type of Trump coin-- cryptocoin--that is inducing these corrupt practices. It is called a  stablecoin. And a company associated with the United Arab Emirates  said: You know, we are going to buy $2 billion of your coins. And guess  what. You get to keep the value of everything earned on that $2 billion  deposit.

Even at 4 percent, that is $80 million a year.

And what did the UAE want?

The UAE wanted advanced AI chips in order to have an advanced AI  center in the United Arab Emirates.

Well, what did we see transpire?

The UAE repeatedly advocated for having access to these chips that  the United States had previously said were a security risk.

Then a company closely associated with the UAE buys $2 billion of  Trump's USD1 stablecoin. And then President Trump says: Oh, do you know  what? You can have these AI chips after all. We will help you establish  an advanced AI processing--artificial intelligence--center in Abu  Dhabi, one of the UAE Emirates. That is corruption laid out as black  and white as you could ever see it. This is incredible. This is what we  expect of very poor, impoverished countries with dictators running the  place, taking a cut of everything, but instead it is the President of  the United States doing it.

Our Founders said this should never be allowed. Hamilton noted the  reason that there is an emoluments clause in the Constitution. In  Federalist 22, he  said ``many mortifying examples of the prevalency of foreign corruption  in republican governments.''

So here were our Founders, putting together this series of checks and  balances, separation of powers between a judiciary, an executive, and a  legislative branch, but they knew it could all be corrupted if you had  an Executive--that is, a President--who could be bought.

Well, folks, we have a President who is being bought, who is  advertising it to the world, and we haven't acted to stop it. Our  Founders acted. They put a clause into the Constitution that said that  ``no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them''--that,  of course, included the President of the United States, the Vice  President of the United States, all of us here who are elected-- ``shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present,  Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King,  Prince, or foreign State.''

Well, the head of MGX is the National Security Advisor of the United  Arab Emirates. This company is absolutely intertwined with this foreign  government. Our Constitution forbids this type of gift to a President  or a Vice President or any one of us.

So here is the fact: We are right now debating a bill dealing with  cryptocurrencies, so this is the time to debate and vote on an  amendment that bans these corrupt practices.

2307 postcloture, that the pending  amendment No. 2310 be set aside so I may offer my amendment No. 2349,  which would stop the corruption in stablecoins for any elected Federal  official of the United States of America.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I hear an objection from my friend and  colleague, the head of the Banking Committee. Would my friend and  colleague explain why we shouldn't, while we are on a cryptocurrency  bill, consider and debate an amendment to honor the emoluments clause  of the U.S. Constitution.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask to be recognized. We are in the  middle of a series of presentations here.

Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. He recognized you.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you.

I could understand if my colleague was objecting because that  amendment only covers one type of cryptocurrency that is being used in  this fashion, and therefore I will present a different option, which is  to say we should address both the sale of meme coins as a way to profit  from people wanting to give us money and we should also cover the  stablecoins as well.

So this broader amendment is a more comprehensive way, regardless of  what conclusions you might have about President Trump currently, a  broader way to ensure as we go forward that this body and the executive  branch, the House down the Hall, will not be corrupted by us making  personal money by selling something like a stablecoin or a meme coin, a  digital baseball card--a way for people to essentially channel us cash,  pretending to buy digital baseball cards.

2307 postcloture, that the pending amendment No. 2308  be set aside so that I may offer my amendment No. 2350, which more  broadly covers the set of corrupting risks that we would be addressing  not just for the executive branch but for the legislative branch as  well.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I am disappointed. I was very present  when the majority leader said that on this bill, there will be an open  amendment process, and we made it very clear that this was one of the  issues that we felt we should be debating while we are on a  cryptocurrency bill.

There are other amendments that should be considered as well. One of  them is to stop a form of scam that bypasses a bank teller by getting  older folks to think they are wiring money to perhaps a nephew or  grandchild in distress, but instead of wiring the funds, they go and  get digital coins at an ATM as instructed, but, in fact, they are just  giving the money to crooks overseas. That amendment should be  considered.

There are other amendments that address creating more sideboards so  that this bill, which purports to regulate an industry, actually  regulates it in an effective fashion rather than essentially endorsing  an unregulated industry, which is what, in sum, this bill is currently.

So I am disappointed. I would, as I asked earlier, ask for the  majority leader to honor his previous commitment to have an open  amendment process so that we can pursue the people's work, fighting for  a better America, including ending corruption in cryptocurrencies.