One Big Beautiful Bill


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693102/one-big-beautiful-bill


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I come to the floor to talk about debt  and the challenge that confronts us.

Over the last few decades, we have seen a lot of sources of red ink.  Among them are the war in Afghanistan, the war in Iraq. We saw the  first Bush tax bill in 2001, massive red ink; 2003, massive red ink;  Trump's tax bill in 2017, an ocean of red ink. I don't think anyone  here would argue that these decisions didn't result in significant  deficits and significant additions to the debt.

Yet there is so much conversation here about fiscal responsibility  and let's get this under control. Yet we see time and time again this  body vote, under Republican leadership, for another ocean of red ink,  another massive deficit, adding to an already bloated debt that so  profoundly compromises the ability of our Nation to address issues in  the next generation.

We are borrowing from the next generation, making it less likely that  we can effectively provide the programs, the foundation of healthcare  and housing and education and the investment in R&D that produces good- paying jobs for the next generation to thrive.

That is wrong. It is wrong to proceed to borrow and compromise the  next generation in order to give tax breaks to billionaires. Wow.

You know, there are purposes for when we do need to borrow: when we  are facing a recession and when we are facing a war. But we haven't  been in a recession. We haven't been at war; although, we clearly had  an attack on Iran. Maybe we are at war now, maybe not. We will see if  the cease-fire holds. But we are not in a position yet where we should  be proceeding to say this current year we should be creating even more  deficits.

But the bill before us doesn't create this massive new additional  ocean of red ink for the purpose of addressing a war nor to address a  recession but, instead, for the lofty purpose of enriching the richest  Americans.

I must say that driving 16 million people off of healthcare to give  tax breaks to megamillionaires and billionaires may make the  megamillionaires and billionaires who are serving in this Chamber quite  happy, but it doesn't make America better.

I must say that leaving 4 million children hungry has a devastating  impact on their ability to study and learn and thrive in their lives to  come. And to do it for tax breaks for billionaires may make my  colleagues who are really rich really happy, but it is really wrong.

In addition, my colleagues just aren't creating a sea of debt; they  are also cutting down the bipartisan structure designed for Congress to  exercise discipline over deficits and debt.

That architecture was crafted in 1974, the Budget and Impoundment  Control Act, normally referred to as the Budget Act, the 1974 Act. It  came about because two things were going on: One is that President  Nixon had impounded funds, and the Supreme Court said, no, you can't do  that. That is unconstitutional. You can't steal the power of the purse.  In the Constitution, that power of the purse is given to Congress.

Senators were very concerned about the deficits that were existing in  1971, and 1972, and 1973. They averaged $20 billion a year. They  totaled $60 billion. I can tell you that now when our deficit is  running at something closer to  $2 trillion a year, $20 billion doesn't sound like much of a cause for  alarm. But that is how determined 100 Senators were to get control over  our budgeting process. All hundred voted for this structure, the Budget  Control Act.

It had two basic features. It had a regular budgeting process, and  then, for legislation that reduced the deficit, it had a special, fast- track, filibuster-free lane called reconciliation. But you could only  use it for reducing the deficit.

That special, fast-track, filibuster-free lane really meant a lot  here in the Senate because we are the ones who have the 60-vote  requirement. The House doesn't have a requirement for 60 votes, for  three-fifths of the body on anything. So it was really all about here,  about the Senate's sense that we should only drop to 60 votes for bills  that reduced the deficit.

Embedded in this were three fundamental provisions, three pillars of  the architecture of getting control of deficits and debt. The first was  that in the first 10 years that are presented in a reconciliation bill,  the sum of the 10 years has to produce deficit reduction. That was  pillar No. 1.

The second pillar was that in every single year that follows the  first 10, it has to produce deficit reduction. It has to save money.

And the third was honest numbers. We are going to use honest numbers.  We are going to create this organization, the Congressional Budget  Office, and we are going to utilize it to cost out programs, do the  modeling, be nonpartisan. Then we are going to utilize this other  organization that already existed, the Joint Committee on Taxation, to  have their staff produce honest, nonpartisan numbers for the cost of  revenue provisions.

The section of the law that controls this special reconciliation  process says each provision, whether for a spending program or for  revenue, has to be costed out in order to be able to hold ourselves  accountable. If the provision is written down and it changes the law,  how much will that cost? If the provision is not in the law, not in the  proposed law, then, obviously, that is different than if the provision  is in the law. New law versus existing law, that is what section 313  says is going to be costed out to see if we are meeting the goals laid  out in the budget resolution. That is the discipline.

Those were the three things: No deficits created in the first 10  years; second, no deficits created in any year following the first 10  years; and, third, honest numbers about what each provision costs.  Those are the three things.

Well, that was in 1974. You can picture Robert Byrd, who was a  passionate defender of the 60-vote requirement, but he voted for this  special, fast-track, filibuster-free lane for that one purpose:  reducing deficits.

That was 1974. Well, 22 years later, along comes a moment when you  have a Republican Senate and a Republican House. And the Republicans  said: Do you know what, we like this idea of a line-item veto, so they  passed it. Fine. But the Supreme Court said that is unconstitutional  because the Constitution says the power of the purse lies with  Congress, not with the President--something that our current Office of  Management and Budget and our Director of Management and Budget doesn't  like and is contesting and told me he wants the Supreme Court to  overrule what it ruled back then.

The second idea was to do a balanced budget amendment. But the  Republican chair of Appropriations stood up and said: Do you know what,  sometimes you need to spend more because of conflict; sometimes you  need to spend more because of recession. And so, no, we shouldn't have  a formalistic formula. And he refused to vote for it, and the proposal  failed one vote short of the 67 it needed.

OK. But then the Republican majority said: But you know, we have got  this other idea. We have got all these really rich and powerful  corporations and individuals, and we want to give them a massive,  beautiful tax cut and make them even more richer and powerful. They  will love us, and they will keep us in power. What a win-win, to give  away the Treasury to the richest people in this country.

But they had a problem. There was no filibuster-free, fast-track lane  that allowed creating a deficit.

So what did they do? They fired the Parliamentarian. That is what  they did. They brought in a new Parliamentarian, a Parliamentarian who  had actually been on the parliamentary team back in 1974, a  Parliamentarian who had then left that Parliamentarian team and gone to  work for the majority leader and then came back off the majority  leader's staff to rule and say: That deal that was crafted with all 100  Senators, we are going to break that deal. We are going to do a nuclear  option. We are going to blow it up. We are going to say that this fast  track can be used to create deficits in the first 10 years.

So there went pillar 1.

Pillar 2 has survived until now, until this moment: No deficits after  the first 10 years.

Pillar 3--use honest numbers--has survived until now: Use the CBO  numbers, use the comparison of a provision as described in section 313  and honestly relay what it costs for a program or for a revenue  provision.

And I say ``until now'' because my colleague, whom I love to work  with on a number of things, has an idea. And he said: There is a  provision not in the section of the law that exists for reconciliation  but in the section of the law as it deals with just the regular budget  process that was created in 1974 that gives the budget chair some  flexibility to solve technical problems, and I think I can use that to  simply decree a new baseline so that things that actually cost a ton of  money, we can tell the American people and ourselves they don't cost  money.

Well, let's see. Here are some examples: the business passthrough.  The Joint Committee on Taxation, passthrough for LLCs, says this  revision in the law will cost $736 billion. My good friend across the  aisle says: I want to use a magic baseline to show things cost less. He  says: We will use a technique here, some magic math, and tell the  people that it only costs $6 billion, even though the Joint Committee  on Taxation tells us it costs $736 billion, and reduce it to less than  1 percent of the true cost.

Let's take another example. There is a provision that extends the  estate and gift tax exemptions. The honest broker, the Joint Committee  on Taxation, says putting that provision in the bill will cost, as in  increasing deficits and increasing the debt, $212 billion. But my  colleague across the aisle says: I want to tell people it doesn't  really cost that--it only costs $10 billion--by using my baseline as  opposed to the honest baseline that we have used ever since 1974  passed, when 100 Senators said: Let's stop using smoke and mirrors and  let's use honest numbers.

Or how about the exemptions being expanded for the alternative  minimum tax? The cost of that, from the Joint Committee on Taxation:  $1.37 trillion. That is with a ``t,'' trillion--$1.37 trillion.

My good colleague across the aisle says: Using my magic math and my  special baseline, that won't increase the deficit; it will actually  reduce the deficit by $6 billion.

Are you kidding me? We are going to destroy the principle, for 51  years, that we will use honest numbers with ourselves and honest  numbers with the American people; and in the process, we are tearing  down that second pillar that reconciliation will never be used to  extend deficits past the reconciliation window of 10 years--because,  you see, that has never been allowed by either party, never done.

In fact, the ruling in 1996, the one that tore down that it can only  be used for deficits in the first 10 years, that ruling was explicit in  reaffirming the second pillar of no deficits after 10 years.

So we have the plain language of the law. We have 51 years of  precedent. We have the ruling from 1996. But my colleague says: I want  to use magic math to pretend this bill doesn't cost what it costs.

Well, let's take a closer look at the provision that my colleague,  the chair of the Budget Committee, is using. It is called section 312.  Let's see how it has been used. Let's see if it has ever been used on  reconciliation. Let's see if it has ever been used completely on the  breadth of an entire reconciliation bill.

Let's start by asking the question: Has it ever been used in a  partisan way? Well, in 2017, Crime Victims  Fund--no, no--a bipartisan decision. In 2023 and 2025, Power Marketing  Administration: bipartisan. They were solving a technical issue, both  parties working on it together. Preventing double counting of a dairy  program: bipartisan. Adjustments to Fiscal Responsibility Act:  bipartisan.

It has become traditional to say this power in section 312 rests with  the chair of the Budget Committee, but that is not true. The law says  it rests with the Budget Committee. The reason we think of it as  resting with the chairman is because it has always been done in a  bipartisan way, with the Democrats and Republicans together saying: We  are solving a problem.

The second question: Has it ever been used on the breadth of a  reconciliation bill or only upon a narrow provision? Well, it turns  out, in every single case--the Crime Victims Fund, the Power Marketing,  the dairy program, the Fiscal Responsibility Act--always a narrow  provision. But not now.

How else can we take a look at this? How about if we look at whether  it was resolving a technical ambiguity. Yep. Every single time,  resolving a technical problem, in bipartisan fashion, narrow provision.

And most importantly, has this provision of 312, which is not in the  section that controls reconciliation, ever been used in reconciliation?  Nope. Not in 2017, not in 2023 through 2025, not on the dairy program,  not on the Fiscal Responsibility Act--not ever. Never used in  reconciliation.

So, colleagues, two big issues are here. Are you really going to  invoke, for a bill that causes over $3 trillion in debt over 10 years  compared to current law--are you really going to invoke, for a  reconciliation bill that, for the first time, continues that ``Red  Sea'' in years 11 through 30--11 years, 30 years out, extending beyond  the 10-year window, in direct violation of the ruling of the  Parliamentarian in 1996, in direct violation of a section of 313 that  says that only--you cannot run deficits after that?

You know, those 30-year estimates, over $30 trillion of additional  debt from this bill. Now, our current debt is pretty high: $37  trillion. This adds another $30 trillion-plus.

And the Congressional Budget Office costed out what happens if the  interest rates are 1 percent higher than they put in the model--1  percent higher. And of course, it is easy to imagine that we could be  off by 1 percent. So 1 percent higher, and the cost isn't $30 trillion;  it is closer to $60 trillion--1 percent higher--of additional debt over  30 years. They said it would add another $24 trillion on top of the  over $32 trillion to begin with.

Are you really going to vote for a bill that uses dishonest numbers?

So here is one reason to vote against this bill: It is a massive debt  creator, primarily to give tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans.

Here is the second reason: It tears down programs in healthcare and  nutrition that are key to the success of our children and families who  are in the 20 percent less affluent in America.

Here is a third reason: It creates debt far into the future, beyond  the 10-year window, that will compromise the ability of us to address  the challenges of America for decades and decades to come. It is really  an attack on the next generation.

Here is a fourth reason: It tears down the framework of  accountability, the last two standing pillars, crafted by 100 Senators  all voting yes in 1974.

I encourage my colleagues, as they get together in their caucuses on  the blue side of the aisle or the red side of the aisle, to say: Let's  hold on. This is wrong. This is not what the President campaigned on.  He campaigned on being a champion for families--not for billionaires,  to screw over families, to make the rich richer. Wow.

Just that extension of the alternative minimum tax is going to cost  $1,368,932,000,000. Wow. In other words, almost $1.4 trillion. What  ordinary family uses an exemption under the alternative minimum tax? It  is the megawealthy.

They listed it under chapter 1, which they titled ``Tax Relief for  Middle Class Families.'' Find me a middle-class family in which this  alternative tax exemption applies.

So we are just days away from voting on this. We are going through  the Byrd bath, in which different policies are examined and, if they  are primarily a policy, they are not allowed in here. That was part of  the rules that were crafted long ago for the special fast-track  reconciliation. Then we have 20 hours of debate, and then we have  amendments.

We are very close to the point of making this tragic mistake. And I  know that many of my new colleagues who were just recently sworn in, in  January, have been folks who said we need fiscal discipline. You can't  campaign on fiscal discipline and tell your constituents you are going  to uphold that after you take office and then come here and not only  vote for this massive debt but tear down, at the same time, the last  two pillars of the architecture for controlling deficits this year and  into the future. That doesn't square, so don't do it.

I will close by saying this is not the first time we have been down  this road. And there are a few myths that people tell themselves to  justify this: We will only do this once. In 2001, it was once. In 2003,  it was twice; 2017 was the third time.

We are doing the same damn thing again: mortgaging our future and  helping increase wealth inequality in this country by doing all these  special provisions for really rich people. We have done it now--this is  the fourth time. Don't pretend you are fooled, like you didn't get it,  because we have been down this road before. It is the wrong road.

``Families lose, billionaires win'' is the wrong mission for America.  It is the wrong mission for the U.S. Senate.