Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Proposed Foreign Military Sale to the Government of Israel of Certain Defense Articles


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701815/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-proposed-foreign-military-sale-to-the-government-of-israel-of-certain-defense-articles


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, on February 28, in coordination with and  at the urging of Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, President Trump  attacked Iran without congressional authorization--that is, without the  authority required under our Constitution. Almost immediately,  Hezbollah, Iran's proxy, engaged in a battle with Israel. Now we have  Israel invading southern Lebanon.

The Netanyahu government is exercising the same strategy they pursued  in Gaza: Drop massive bombs, level entire towns, block routes for  civilians to leave, and block access for humanitarian relief.

And the United States? We are partners in this. We are complicit in  this--not just because we partnered with Israel to ignite the war with  Iran but because we sold the bombs and the bulldozers that Israel is  using. We didn't stop supplying the Netanyahu government with weapons  years ago even when it became clear that they were deliberately  targeting homes, schools, and hospitals; when they were blocking  deliveries of humanitarian aid, including water, food, and medicine;  when the result was mass malnutrition, particularly among mothers and  children and the elderly.

We must not continue to be complicit in these tragedies by selling  these tools of destruction--the bombs and the bulldozers--to Israel.

The administration says: Let's sell them 12,000 more 1,000-pound  bombs.

Picture 12,000 1,000-pound bombs dropping on neighborhoods--that is  what we are enabling--or a vast number of bulldozers to destroy homes  and buildings. We have seen it in the West Bank--homes and villages  bulldozed, ancient olive groves bulldozed--and now we are seeing it in  Lebanon, with the Netanyahu government bragging about doing the same  thing to Lebanon they did to Gaza: Make it uninhabitable.

Let's be clear. Bulldozers are not defensive weapons.

Recent satellite images of southern Lebanon show the Netanyahu  government flattening towns, destroying bridges, cutting off civilian  movement, and cutting off humanitarian access in a replay of the  destruction we saw in Gaza, not to mention the Netanyahu government has  supported settlers in their expansion, massive expansion, of outposts  and settlements on Palestinian land in the West Bank, in their mass  increase in construction of homes and villages, and most disturbing of  all, supporting the settlers in their violent attacks on Palestinian  communities--all of this in the goal of creating a greater Israel by  destroying any prospect of a Palestinian state.

Let's not forget, as my colleague from Maryland mentioned, it was a  bulldozer operated by the Israeli Defense Forces that killed American  citizen Rachel Corrie in Rafah in 2003--the first of 14 Americans  citizens who have been killed by Israeli soldiers since then.

Approving this sale of the bombs and bulldozers deepens our  responsibility for these tragedies and for the suffering.

Colleagues, when we became Senators, we swore an oath to take on the  responsibilities designated to Congress in the Constitution, including  the question of war.

As Madison summarized: The Constitution supposes what the history of  all governments demonstrates, that the executive is the branch of power  most interested in war and most prone to it. Thus, the Constitution has  accordingly, with studied care, vested the question of war in the  legislature.

That is the Constitution we swore an oath to, and it is the  Constitution that President Trump violated by launching a war without  congressional authorization.

In 1973, during the Vietnam war, Congress approved the War Powers Act  to, in their words, ``fulfill the intent of the Framers of the  Constitution'' and rein in the President from waging wars without  congressional approval.

The War Powers Act does allow the President to respond to an imminent  threat that is ``a national emergency created by an attack upon the  United States, its territories, possessions, or its Armed Forces.'' But  in this case, no such condition existed and thus the violation of the  Constitution.

Yet, earlier today, my colleagues across the aisle voted to allow the  President to continue to violate the law and violate the Constitution.  When will we say enough is enough?

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, let us today, all 100 Senators, uphold  our oath to the Constitution. The indiscriminate use of American bombs  in Iran and Lebanon and Gaza that targets civilians and infrastructure  by Israel must end. We should not sell these bulldozers and these bombs  to Israel.

I urge my colleagues to vote for these two joint resolutions of  disapproval.