Recognizing the Significance of Community College Month in April


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702141/recognizing-the-significance-of-community-college-month-in-april


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, we are here tonight because our  Republican colleagues have introduced a budget resolution. It is a  budget resolution that unlocks the reconciliation process.

But before we examine this next reconciliation bill, let's recognize  that it has been just 10 months since we passed the last one. That was  the one that was known as H.R. 1, or in Trump lingo: One Big Beautiful  Bill. Of course, most of the Nation called it ``One Big Ugly Betrayal''  because that was a more accurate describer of what it did to families  across our Nation.

It slashed a trillion dollars from healthcare programs--a trillion  dollars from healthcare programs--for families. It kicked 15 million  Americans off health insurance. That certainly doesn't help American  families.

It took food off the plates of more than 3 million families with  kids. You know, kids can't really do well in school if they are hungry;  making them deliberately hungry--what were you thinking?

What were you thinking in destroying healthcare by a trillion dollars  for 15 million Americans, taking food off the plates of 3 million  families with kids, and to do it to fund tax breaks for billionaires?  Wow. That is all about government by and for the powerful.

But you know why I love this country? Because it is all about  government by and for the people. That is the vision our Nation was  founded on. That is the beauty of a democratic republic.

But what did we get last year? We got the opposite. We got the  opposite--the type of policy that comes out of a strongman state, the  type of policy that comes out when the powerful exercise tyranny over  the people--the type of tyranny our Founders revolted against when they  created our Nation. That is what we saw 10 months ago: families lose  and billionaires won.

And that is not all that bill did. It also gave 65 billion to Customs  and Border Protection and 75 billion to Immigration and Customs  Enforcement or ICE. And that amount of money was about seven times a  normal annual appropriation.

We can see here in this chart 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, all less than  10 billion; 2025, and there we are. So much more. The annual  appropriation, plus this extra for ICE of an additional $75 billion.

And anyone looking at the chart goes: Wow. They already prefunded,  for multiple years, ICE. They did exactly the same thing for Customs  and Border Protection--CBP.

So we heard a few moments ago from my colleague at the head of the  Budget Committee that ICE is out of money. Oh, really? Not true. That  CBP is out of money. Not true.

In fact, the President's Office of Management and Budget puts out a  monthly report, so go look it up yourself. They are sitting on $103  billion of unobligated funds.

So they already have funds for this year and next year and the year  after. So the entire premise of this bill is completely false-- completely false. They don't need more money. What they do need are  reforms about their conduct across America because they have been  terrorizing our communities across our country because this  administration said: No longer will you use  the standard practices of ordinary enforcement that have been the  standard in our Republic and democratic republics across the land.  Instead, we are going to start violating those standards. We are going  to put on face masks. We are going to rip the ID off the uniform so you  can't tell who we are. We are going to use vans that have no label on  them, and we are going to sometimes even strip the license plate off in  order to disguise who we are, not because we are under cover but  because we don't want people to be able to say: Can you believe what  happened when those CBP agents came to town or those ICE agents came to  town? Hard to say that when they are not identified.

But those standards exist because there is accountability to the  citizens of the country. Again, government by and for the people, not  by and for the powerful.

There are things called civil rights that this administration has  forgotten about. They proceeded to say: We don't need warrants to break  into people's homes. Are you kidding me? Every sixth grader in America  has heard about the Bill of Rights and that we have the sanctity of our  homes, and the government can't break in without a warrant. But this  majority party, led by Trump, said: Yes, you can. Forget the Bill of  Rights. Forget the Fourth Amendment.

And then when we detain people, you have another right, and that is  to contact a lawyer. But we are going to detain you and not let you  contact a lawyer. We are going to detain you and not let you contact  family.

And when family says: Where did my family member go that you-all  swept off the street? We are going say: We don't know. We moved them.  We don't know where. That is not conduct acceptable in a democratic  republic with a Constitution and a Bill of Rights.

Well, since ICE and CBP have already been prefunded, since they are  sitting on $103 billion of unobligated funds, what is this all about?  It is about the majority saying: We want to drive home the point that  we are just fine with the way ICE is conducting themselves. We are so  fine that we won't reform any of those violations of civil rights or  constitutional rights in order to have a normal budget process  regarding CBP or regarding ICE.

Well, if we are going to have a special reconciliation process when  ICE and CBP have already been prefunded, how about we actually address  issues that America cares about because that extra money isn't going to  help with the border because they are already funded.

It isn't going to help improve security because they are already  funded.

But you know what is not adequately funded? Healthcare is not  adequately funded. There isn't a dime in this bill for healthcare. That  is important to the American people.

There is not a dime in this bill to help with the rising grocery  prices that have gone up, up, up under Trump's stewardship--a whole lot  of it impacted by his tariffs, which were themselves unconstitutional.

There is not a dime in this bill to address the gas prices, which are  over $5 a gallon in my State, and diesel is over $6 a gallon. Go talk  to a farmer across America and see if they are happy and ask  yourselves: If we are doing a special budget process, why not address  some help to our farmers who are impacted not just by the high cost of  diesel for their tractors, they are being extraordinarily impacted by  the tariffs as well. Why not help them?

Why not reduce the debt? This bill increases the debt. It is unpaid  for just like the Republican war in Afghanistan was unpaid for, the  Republican war in Iraq, going after nonexistent weapons of mass  destruction, was unpaid for. They launched wars that undermine our  security and cost the American Treasury $8 trillion of debt because  they wouldn't pay for it, and now that debt is coming home to roost.  And it means more interest payments, and it means paying higher  interest. It means less money for those fundamentals for families, like  healthcare and housing and education--the foundations for families to  thrive.

So there is not a dime for working families, not a dime to improve  affordability, not a dime to reduce a deficit or the debt; but there  is, in this bill, the instructions to two committees to spend up to $70  billion apiece.

Now, my colleague clarified that they are not really going to ask for  $140 billion but, more likely, $70 billion. OK. Well, $70 billion, that  is a lot of money. What could $70 billion buy for America's families?  Well, it could, every year for 3 years, pay the entire salary of  330,000 teachers across America. Wow. What an impact that would have on  classroom size in our Nation--a real investment in our children for the  next generation. Or that same $70 billion could hire 200,000 police  officers every year for 3 years. What an investment in public safety  for communities across this Nation. Or--we have been watching the dream  of home ownership die. Back in 2020, the median age for buying a first  home was about 33 years of age. Six years later, the median age for  buying a home: 40 years. In 5 years, the median age has gone up 7 years  because nobody is able to buy a home in America--in part because  private equity is buying up all the houses and driving up the prices,  and because our economy for the rich billionaires is not providing the  type of wages for middle-class America it provided before.

So how about downpayment assistance to help people become homeowners?  That same $70 billion, that would provide 7 million American families  with a $10,000 downpayment grant to help them become a homeowner.

So 330,000 teachers a year for 3 years, 200,000 police officers a  year for 3 years, 7 million families getting $10,000 downpayment  grants. I make these examples to point out how large this sum is and  how much need there is in America for us actually to invest in  families--not tax breaks for billionaires but in families, in housing,  in healthcare, in public safety, in education.

That bill 10 months ago--that bill was families lose, billionaires  win. Families lost healthcare. They lost nutrition. Billionaires got  massive tax breaks. And to help fund those tax breaks for the  billionaires, their bill added--get this--$30 trillion to the national  debt over the next 30 years. And if interest rates are 1 percent higher  than the interest rate used in the Congressional Budget Office's model,  it is $50 trillion in additional debt over the next 30 years.

So bankrupting America, failing to invest in families, going through  this charade for two organizations that are already sitting on $103  billion and obviously pre-funded, that is not about building a better  America. That is about families lose and billionaires win. That is  about undermining the future for the next generation rather than  building a better future for the next generation.

There is a better vision for America than families lose and  billionaires win. It is families thrive; and billionaires, they pay  their fair share. Families thrive; billionaires pay their fair share.  Investing in education helps families thrive. Investing in healthcare  helps families thrive. Investing in housing and home ownership helps  families thrive. Investing in infrastructure helps build the physical  infrastructure for the next generation.

But this bill says to hell with all of that; we are going to,  instead, create this false story about unfunded Agencies that are  already sitting on $103 billion.

Let's reject this vision that is designed for families lose and  billionaires win and instead adopt the vision of families thrive and  billionaires pay their fair share.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, time to get this show on the road, so I  yield back all remaining time on the Democratic side.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, my colleague from Kentucky is right that  this bill is unfunded, that it adds to the deficit and adds to the  debt. And maybe the best way to address that is not to send $70 billion  to two Agencies that are sitting on top of $103 billion right now of  unobligated funds. They couldn't even get started spending that massive  amount from H.R. 1 last year.

But blindly slashing away at scientific research when China is  producing four times the patents that we are producing each year,  blindly slashing away at Pell grants, which, under this proposal, would  be equal to 2 million individual students losing their Pell grants-- that is the type of detailed work that needs to be done in the  authorizing committees and in the Appropriations Committee. This slash- and-hack strategy is way off base.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, the bill cuts $16 billion from education.  It doesn't say specifically where, but that is a good example of the  type of thing that could happen.                          Vote on Amendment No. 5378

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I call up my amendment No. 5235 and ask  that it be reported by number.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, in the State of the Union, President  Trump has told the story of Rachel Wiggins who had lost out to private  equity 20 times in trying to buy a house.

After all, it is very hard to compete against an all-cash offer, fast  closing, no inspection. The President said: I am asking Congress to act  because we want homes for people, not corporations.

And the Senate did act, and they included in a bill--the ROAD to  Housing Act--an element--and my compliments to my colleague from Ohio  and my colleague from Massachusetts who worked together to get the  element into that bill.

But right now down the hall, private equity is lobbying like hell to  make sure that element never passes. We have an opportunity tonight to  send a message that we agree with the President, that we have a  challenge in home ownership because home ownership is dying, and one of  the factors is private equity buying up the homes.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, let's pass this amendment and restore  home ownership.

Mr. MERKLEY.                           Vote on Amendment No. 5235

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President. I would like to thank the Democratic  staff of the Senate Budget Committee for all their hard work on this  resolution, both through extensive preparation and diligent staff work  during floor consideration. Staff includes: Ben Ward, Mike Jones, Jill  Harrelson, Josh Smith, Tyler Evilsizer, Melissa Kaplan-Pistiner, Misha  Rafiq, Brian Lyons, Anna Barnes, Connor Jennings, Ethan Rosenkranz,  Andrew Cobian, Anirudh Srirangam, Fiona Forrester, Lauran Pauley,  Hilary Gelfond-Gross, Madilyn Shirley, John Bratton, and Mina  Shahinfar.