Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693589/rescissions-act-of-2025


Mr. MERKLEY. My colleagues from Wisconsin and Michigan have spoken to  the destructive nature of this rescission because of the programs that  will be canceled midstream.

I have seen, so often, the power of our international aid programs in  assisting in nutrition and fighting tuberculosis and malaria and AIDS  across the world. But what many may not understand is that the small  fraction--less than one-third of 1 percent--that we spend on those  programs has an incredible yield not just in doing good works around  the world, but have been doing good for America because of  relationships that are forged through those programs. The respect that  is forged through those programs comes back to benefit us in all kinds  of cooperation on a huge range of diplomatic goals--be they economic;  be they trade; be they issues of national security.

That is, in fact, what is referred to as ``soft power,'' and soft  power is at risk with this strategy of canceling these programs.

I think about rural Oregon, where so often the warnings on floods or  fires is broadcast over the public radio system, and all kinds of  different channels have different programs that people become quite  attached to. So there are simply good humor programs that are fun to  listen to, and others are good music programs. But a lot of it is good  news programs--things deeply appreciated throughout the State but often  harder to access in rural Oregon. So I am concerned about this  concerted attack on rural America.

First, my colleagues across the aisle say: We are going to make it  very, very hard for people in rural America to get healthcare if they  are on Medicaid. And then, without Medicaid financing and paying for  services, you lose an entire hospital or you lose an entire clinic. The  whole rural community is profoundly damaged because everyone's  healthcare is affected. An attack on rural America continues through  this bill.

But what I really want to talk about now is to give a sense of how  this bill is an attack on the separations of power that we all here in  the Senate have taken a constitutional oath to defend.

When I first came to Congress as an intern for Senator Hatfield, we  were celebrating our 200th anniversary. That is so long ago, 49 years  ago. And Senator Hatfield had a saying about appropriators, and that  was that appropriators--that is, those Members of the Senate who served  on the spending committee--they were first appropriators, and then they  were Republicans or Democrats. That is how strongly they felt about  their shared responsibility to manage the power of the purse.

The power of the purse--article I, section 9, of the Constitution  says:

No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in       Consequence of Appropriations made by Law.

And here is the thing. The Congress is vested with that power, but  when you decide how to spend money, you are really talking about your  values. So those who serve on the Appropriations Committee were doing  their best to enact the values of our country, be they investment in  healthcare, in housing, in education; investments that created good- paying jobs, investments that helped small communities thrive,  investments that helped build infrastructure across the country. That  was the responsibility that was so cherished.

And there was a term for those who chaired the 12 subcommittees on  Appropriations, and that term--the colloquial term--was that they were  the Senate's ``cardinals.'' It was taken from the Catholic Church,  where cardinals helped steer the church on the right path. And the  cardinals of the Senate had the responsibility of steering our Nation,  through our spending decisions, on the right path for the people of  America.

This is, in fact, a key part of government by and for the people:  that shared responsibility to spend that money wisely. But even in the  early years that I was here in the Senate, we were starting to see  signs of the breakdown of that relationship.

In the last conversation I had with Senator Hatfield before he passed  away, he said: What happened to the Appropriations Committee?

Now, Senator Hatfield was a Republican, and he had been chair of the  Appropriations Committee. And he said: I worked so closely with Dan  Inouye of Hawaii, and I worked so closely with Patty Murray of  Washington. What has happened to that collaboration?

That was several years ago. But as we have watched, over time, some  significant things are happening that we should understand as Senators.  In the not so distant past, you have tried to have a fair allocation of  revenue laws that raised money, and then, as you filled the Treasury,  the question became: How shall we spend it?

So the responsibility shifted from the Finance Committee to the  Appropriations Committee. But, over time, it has become more and more  popular to spend money for programs through tax credits and deductions.  So much of the spending that was in the Appropriations Committee has  shifted to the Finance Committee. And then it became more and more  popular to shift discretionary spending, over which the Appropriations  Committee has control, into mandatory spending. If it is mandatory, it  is not a decision decided by the appropriators.

And then, on top of all that, we started to build up more and more  national debt, and so all the money that went to interest on that debt  is money unavailable to be spent on basic programs of healthcare,  housing, education, investments that create good-paying jobs across  America, infrastructure, security. That money isn't so available  because it is tied up paying for interest.

So these trends are changing the role of those Senate cardinals--the  chairs and the ranking members of the subcommittees who help guide us  in the 12 different sections of spending. And, I will say, that problem  of the debt growing, that is very significant.

Back in 1974, Democrats and Republicans came together and said: Let's  have an architecture to ensure that we are very responsible and don't  run up massive debt. We will have a filibuster-free pathway for one  purpose, and that is to reduce deficits--only to reduce deficits.

And then my colleagues, 22 years later, across the aisle--my  Republican colleagues--said: Well, you know, we want a filibuster-free  pathway to do tax cuts which will increase the deficit. And they  brought in a new Parliamentarian in order to get a ruling that they  could do the exact opposite of what 100 Senators had agreed to. So more  and more payments diverted into interest.

We had that Big Beautiful Bill, as Trump calls it--or as many of us  call it, the ``Big Ugly Betrayal Bill.'' You know the one I am talking  about, the one where families lose and billionaires win that was passed  2 weeks ago. Well, this rescission bill is a continuation of that  vision of families lose--particularly rural families, particularly all  Americans, who lose out on the advantages of soft power that we  exercise around the world--and billionaires win. But it is a direct  attack, as well, on the immediate process of Democrats and Republicans  working together on the Appropriations Committee in this really sacred  responsibility of exercising the power of the purse.

Let's examine that word ``rescission.'' It is a fancy term. What does  it really mean? A rescission is a repeal of a previous spending law.

A law was passed. It spent a certain amount of money on a certain  program or on a certain Agency. And a repeal of it--that is all that  fancy term means.

And so the spending process is one where those members of the  spending committee come together--Democrats and Republicans together-- and they work out a bipartisan bill. And in that bill, last year, for  fiscal year 2025, 11 out of 12 bills that came out of the spending  committee, out of the Appropriations Committee, were unanimous or  nearly unanimous. Where do you look for that type of bipartisan  cooperation in Congress anymore? Well, last year, in the Appropriations  Committee, 11 out of 12 bills passing unanimously or nearly unanimously  out of committee. But what is happening right now is consideration of  undoing that bipartisan work with a partisan repeal.

Now, just kind of stick with me here about a normal deal. You make an  agreement with a friend: I will do this if you do that.

Well, everyone kind of understands that is a partnership. You have an  agreement. But what if one person bails on that agreement later? It is  a betrayal. But bailing on the agreement is exactly what this bill is.

Democrats and Republicans together made those spending decisions, and  now they are being undone in a purely partisan fashion. They are  breaking the deal. They are going back on the agreement. They are  breaking their word. That is pretty shameful, and it is why my  colleagues have been saying: Don't do it--because it is wrong, and it  has a huge impact going forward. Once somebody you have made an  agreement with breaks their end of the bargain, are you going to make a  second bargain with that same individual, knowing that they bailed on  the first deal? The answer is probably not.

So how will we come together and continue what we did a year ago--11  out of 12 bills passing out of the Senate committee in a hugely  bipartisan fashion--if one side comes back and breaks the deal? I would  invite my Republican colleagues: Come to the floor and explain to me  how breaking the deal that you were participating in a year ago is an  honorable thing to do, and explain to me how we are going to do future  deals if you are breaking the existing deal.

Now, never in the history of the Senate has there been a partisan  repeal--never. This is the first time. Why? Because we understood  together that a deal is a deal.

That doesn't mean the President doesn't have influence. Hey, that was  just about last year's bill. The President lays out a budget for the  next year and has a huge influence. The President can veto the next set  of spending bills or any one of them.

But once it is locked into law--passed by the House, passed by the  Senate, signed by a President--to come back and undo that in this  partisan fashion, you are breaking the honor code that has made  bipartisan collaboration so successful. That is why you shouldn't do  it. That is why you should vote no.

Now, this question of how this affects our Constitution is  significant because, as I cited, the Constitution assigns the  responsibility of the power of the purse to Congress in article I,  section 9. But there have been occasions before when Presidents said:  We would like to actually have that power of the purse. And the  President who really pursued that aggressively was President Nixon, in  the 1970s. President Nixon signed a law about how money would be spent  but then decided not to spend it and withheld the money from being  spent on housing, on education, on highways, on agriculture, and on  pollution prevention programs.

Well, of course, this was appealed on a constitutional basis because  the Constitution doesn't give the President the power to impound funds.  Congress, by law--and by law signed by a President--had said: Here is  what must be spent on these programs. And the President came along, and  President Nixon said: I don't want to do it. I am not going to do it.  Take me to court.

So they went to court. And it didn't actually make it to the Supreme  Court until after President Nixon was out of office, after having  resigned because of the Watergate scandal. But, in a way, this was  really almost a bigger scandal. This was an attack on the Constitution.

So what did the Court say in Train v. New York? And the piece of  spending that made it to the Supreme Court was related to spending on  water treatment systems, of all things. And the Court said: You cannot  do this. You cannot impound funds. It is unconstitutional because the  Constitution assigns that responsibility to Congress.

Now, if the law had been written by Congress to say the President has  flexibility between here and here, maybe a modest amount of flexibility  may have survived the constitutional test. But the idea that the  President could just simply ignore the law? No. The Court said no.

Then there was a second test. The second test had to do, in 1996,  with Congress, where Republicans controlled the House and they  controlled the Senate. They decided: You know how we will tackle the  deficit now--now that we have destroyed the 1974 law that said the fast  track can only be used for reducing the deficit and how we switched  that and said it could be used for increasing the deficit--now we have  destroyed that, and we have a new plan, and we will just simply say to  the President: You can line-item veto.

Again, the court weighed in, and the court said: Hell no, no you  can't, because the Constitution does not say you can delegate to the  President powers the Constitution assigns to you.

It assigns it to us. That is our responsibility.

So, again, the core concept here is that bipartisan work in forging a  spending bill should not be done by one partner bailing on the deal  that was agreed to the previous year.

Now, there is a formal way to go about doing this in a bipartisan  fashion, and that is, each spending bill, in  addition to saying what we will spend next year, can contain agreements  on undoing the spending from the previous year because it is the same  set of people saying: We assigned funds last year, but now we see they  are not needed.

Maybe the President pointed out that they are not needed.

We will undo it, but we will undo it in a bipartisan fashion in the  Appropriations Committee in that same sense of a partnership working  together.

So rescissions, yes. We do them all the time. But they are done on a  bipartisan basis in the spending committee, not in a partisan special  bill, one-sided, basically bailing on the deal struck last year-- because this strategy is a recipe for disaster, destroying the bond of  trust on a deal made with each side having its priorities in a bill and  then one side bailing on it--because of that, it has never happened  before, and it should never happen now.

Mr. President, let's step back from the immediate loyalty test the  President of the United States has put forward. The President said: It  is a loyalty test. I want you to do this because I want you to bend the  knee to me.

That is not the responsibility of a Senator of the United States of  America, to bend the knee to the executive branch. The Constitution  gives us the responsibility to design how the executive branch  functions. It gives us, the Senate, the responsibility to fund the  programs and the services.

The way you lose government of, by, and for the people is to have an  acquiescent legislature that stops doing its job and just says ``We  will respond; we will just do what the President asks'' and a  deferential court. Right now, we have both.

But we took an oath to the Constitution, each one of us, to honor  that oath. Do not engage for the first time ever in creating this  recipe for disaster of our bipartisan responsibilities.