Setting Forth the Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2026 and Setting Forth the Appropriate Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Years 2027 Through 2035


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702009/setting-forth-the-congressional-budget-for-the-united-states-government-for-fiscal-year-2026-and-setting-forth-the-appropriate-budgetary-levels-for-fiscal-years-2027-through-2035


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I rise today because our Republican  colleagues have introduced a new budget resolution to yet again utilize  a special process called reconciliation. We just voted a short while  ago on a motion to proceed. That motion to proceed succeeded along  purely party lines, and that takes us into the realm of this special  device called reconciliation.

Just 10 months ago, we already had a reconciliation bill that is  sometimes called H.R. 1. President Trump called it the One Big  Beautiful Bill, but much of America has a different name for it. They  call it the Big Ugly Betrayal. Why? Because it betrayed families in  America to fund tax breaks for billionaires, and in the process, it  added to our national debt. It slashed $1 trillion from healthcare  programs for families. It kicked 15 million Americans off of their  health insurance. It took food off the plates of more than 3 million  families with children. Why? To give away the Treasury to the richest  Americans. What other phrase could possibly describe this other than  ``families lose, and billionaires win''?

But it isn't just today's families who lose from that bill; it is the  families of the next generation because that bill added, according to  the Congressional Budget Office's independent, nonpartisan estimate,  $30 trillion to our national debt over 30 years, and that is only if  their inflation or interest rates are accurate. They note that, in  general, their assumption was that interest would not go above 4  percent, but at 1 percent higher, that $30 trillion in debt for the  next generation, which essentially doubles our national debt, would  instead be adding an additional $50 trillion.

I am sharing this because this bill--this second reconciliation bill  during the Trump administration--builds on the foundation of the first.  The first one was ``families lose, and billionaires win,'' but could  this bill possibly be different? Not only is this bill not different,  but its entire existence involves a betrayal of this Senate Chamber  because the bill is based on a provision in budget law from 1974, the  Budget and Impoundment Control Act.

Every single Senator who voted on that bill voted in favor of it-- Democrats and Republicans together--because the complete agreement was  that it would be used only to decrease the deficit, and every single  Member thought we needed to have an instrument to control the deficit.

OK. Fine. Well and good. That was in 1974. But in 1996, Republicans  decided they wanted to give away even more treasure to the richest  Americans, so they said: The problem is we can't do that because it  increases the deficit rather than decreases the deficit. There isn't a  pathway to do it because we know we can't get 60 votes to close debate  on giving away the Treasury to the richest Americans.

So the then-leader, Robert Dole of Kansas, proceeded to appoint a  Parliamentarian who had worked for him and who had also been around in  1974 and understood that the entire reconciliation was about reducing  the deficit, and the result was a ruling that that core premise could  be stood on its head. You could use reconciliation not to decrease  deficits but to increase them. It meant you could do a massive tax bill  giveaway to the richest Americans. That is at the foundation for both  of the Bush tax cuts--or tax giveaways to the rich, maybe, to more  accurately describe it--and to a similar bill that was done last year  and to a similar bill that was done in the first Trump administration.

So here we are. In addition to impacting tax legislation, this change  saying that this special device that everyone agreed was only for  decreasing the deficit could be used to increase the deficit meant that  it could also be used in the fashion that it is being presented by my  Republican colleagues today.

So the pillars of that initial act are all being violated--the pillar  that in the first 10 years, there could be no net deficit; that after  the first 10 years, there could be no deficit in any individual account  in any individual year; that the budget had to be based on real  numbers, not phony numbers; and that the real numbers would come from  an independent Agency set up by the bill at the Congressional Budget  Office. But that bill last year, the ``Big Ugly Betrayal'' bill,  toppled all of those pillars--immediate deficits, long-term deficits  and long-term debt, using fake numbers on the analysis, all of it--so  there is no foundation for accountability left.

That is the background for what brings us to today and to the vote  that was just held in which the majority party said: We are again going  to present a bill that increases the deficit and increases debt.

Wow. I must say this is not the way I would like to be celebrating  our 250th anniversary. Wouldn't it be great if, on a bipartisan basis,  we restored accountability to our national budget? Wouldn't that be a  way to celebrate this anniversary and help create a foundation for the  next generation to thrive rather than shortchanging the children of  today, who will be adults in the near future, and shortchanging the  children of the children of today? But there we are. Instead, the  majority party has decided to celebrate our 250th anniversary by--well,  by expanding secret police in America, because that is what the bill is  all about that they have presented.

We know what the foundations are for families to thrive. It is  healthcare. It is housing. It is education. It is good-paying jobs. We  know that you also need investments in infrastructure in order to make  all of that happen.

So will this bill that the majority just presented address the issues  families are facing?

Will it be designed to bring down the cost of groceries? No, it will  not.

Will it be designed to bring down the cost of healthcare, perhaps by  restoring the tax credits that their last bill took away from millions  of families? No, it will not.

Will it be designed to bring down gas prices, which are more than $1  higher than before the war was launched on Iran? In my State of Oregon,  a gallon of gas is over $5 and a gallon of diesel is over $6. This is  the Bush tax on ordinary families. Was it designed to bring that down?  No.

How about to expand nutrition assistance--nutrition that was savaged  in the ``Big Ugly Bill'' 10 months ago? Does this bill remedy that to  help the children of America get enough to eat so they can actually  study when they are in school? No, it does not.

Does it address the mass shortage in housing that has resulted in  really high rents? No, it doesn't help that either.

How about investing in first-time home ownership to help restore the  dream of home ownership because that dream has been dying? No, it  doesn't address that either.

How about helping the United States prepare for unexpected  disasters--wildfires? floods? hurricanes? No, it doesn't do that.

Does it, perhaps, reduce our debt? No, quite the opposite. It is  unpaid for, and it increases our debt.

So nothing to help working families; nothing to improve  affordability--a major crisis across this country; nothing to reduce  the deficit and debt.

Instead, this bill is ICE and CBP--Immigration and Customs  Enforcement, and Customs and Border Protection--up to $140 billion.  There is a set of instructions being sent to committee, and each  committee is being told: You can spend up to $70 billion. Two  committees. Seventy billion. That is up to $140 billion.

But when I say that this bill is all about funding ICE and CBP, you  might say: Wait, didn't we do that 10 months ago? Didn't Republicans,  on party line, pass a bill to give massive amounts of money to ICE and  CBP just 10 months ago? And your memory would be correct.

This is the budget for ICE, and you can see that it increased  modestly from 2017 to 2024, but look at this--an additional $75  billion, roughly equal to seven times its normal annual appropriation.

So it funded also CBP in a very similar fashion--only gave an extra  65 billion to CBP. So 75 billion to ICE; 65 billion to Customs and  Border Protection. Massive, mega increase in expanding Agencies that  have been empowered by this administration to operate like secret  police.

So instead of this bill being used to address the concerns of  families across America, this bill is being used to expand the  operations of Trump's secret police. That is what this bill is.

Now, of this massive amount of money that was provided 10 months ago,  how much has been spent? Now, you would assume, because Republicans are  coming back and saying: This is a top priority in America, that that  money--that extra 75 billion for ICE and 65 billion for Customs and  Border Protection--must have been spent.

Well, now, the Office of Management and Budget, which is in the  executive branch--it is run by Mr. Russell Vought, who was the chief  architect of Project 2025 aimed at creating an authoritarian state-- they issue a report monthly. It is called monthly Report on Budget  Execution. And the forms, for those of you who want the details, are  called SF-133.

We looked at those forms for this last month, and what those forms  say is that 63 billion of the ICE spending has not been obligated yet.  It is not even under contract. It isn't that it hasn't gone out the  door; it is not even under contract. And of the 65 billion for CBP, 40  billion is not yet obligated.

That means $103 billion of the money that Republicans gave to expand  ICE and CBP is still available. So why the hell is the top priority in  America getting another $70 to $140 billion for these two Agencies, as  opposed to addressing all the significant national challenges that we  have--all of the challenges that families have as they are pressed to  the wall by the cost of fuel and the cost of healthcare and the cost of  housing and the cost of medicine? Why isn't this bill addressing any of  that? And instead it is providing $70 to $140 billion more for two  Agencies that still are sitting on top of over $100 billion from last  year's bill.

I noted that the goal of this bill is to expand the secret police in  America. Those are strong words because ICE and CBP were not secret  police before this administration, but this administration changed  their conduct.

They turned them into a force that operates in secret and is  terrorizing communities across this country--operating in secret  wearing masks, operating in secret in uniforms without identification,  operating in secret in vehicles that are unmarked and sometimes have  had their license plates removed to make them as untraceable as  possible, operating without warrants and crashing through people's  doors, stopping citizens without cause--pulling their weapons, bashing  out their windows, and dragging people out of their cars.

These are the tactics of secret police around the world, and they are  happening right here in America, right now.

And in that cultivated manner of thuggery, they are not just pulling  out their weapons; they are pulling the triggers. Ruben Ray Martinez-- shot dead. Renee Nicole Good--shot dead. Alex Pretti--shot dead.

The day after Renee and Alex were shot dead in Minnesota, two  individuals were shot sitting in their car just blocks from my house in  Oregon. We didn't know that they were mortally injured because the  administration wouldn't release any information.

Thankfully, they did not die. The woman, on that occasion, was shot  through the chest. The man was shot through the arm--sitting in their  car just one day after Renee and Alex were shot in their car.

It is certainly clear that what these two Agencies need is not more  money. They are sitting on $100 billion-plus in unobligated funds. What  they need is more accountability. That bill should be on the Senate  floor--the one that says no face masks, no uniforms without ID, no vans  without license plates or ID, no breaking down doors without warrants,  no invading sensitive places like hospitals and churches and synagogues  and mosques and daycares. That is the bill.

What we need now is not more money. It is more accountability-- standard practices for the way public officials operate in a democratic  republic. Instead, we now have standard practice of this administration  for how secret police operate under an authoritarian organization.

My colleagues across the aisle have said: Well, we need to fund these  organizations because they aren't funded. Well, clearly, if they still  have $100 billion sitting in the bank, sitting in their accounts with  the government, they are funded.

And as for the rest of Homeland Security, that is not funded because  the House of Representatives killed the bill. In that case, I can thank  my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who came together and said:  Homeland Security isn't just about ICE and CBP. It is also about FEMA-- emergency management. It is also about TSA that provides support to get  us through the airport. It is also about Cybersecurity, which is  important. It is also about the Coast Guard. And the Coast Guard is so  beloved in my home State of Oregon, as it is, I imagine, in every  coastal city.

And so every single Senator said: Yes, fund those four Agencies while  we continue to debate both ICE and Customs and Border Protection. We  all agreed. In fact, the Speaker of the House agreed and said send the  bill over. And then it got over there, and he got cold feet.

He got cold feet because he didn't have the support of President  Trump, and he didn't have support of some Members of the most right- leaning wing of the Republican Party. That was the moment that Trump  could have instantly made one phone call and that bill would have  passed.

So if they are not funded, it is because the President chose to keep  them unfunded, and the House of Representatives chose to keep those  additional Agencies--FEMA, TSA, Cybersecurity, and Coast Guard-- unfunded.

In addition, this bill doesn't just provide 1 year of funding. It  says: Fund them--that is, ICE and CBP--this additional funding on top  of the $100 billion they still have--fund them for another 3 years.

Now, I would like to just remind my colleagues how extraordinary this  is. Reconciliation was never supposed to be about spending money. It  was supposed to be about deficit reduction, but now, we are taking a  bill that was in the regular appropriations process and funding two  Agencies for 3 years--that is their plan. And that is simply wrong  because it means we are saying that in this--the start of the second  year of the Trump administration--they are going to fund these Agencies  through Trump's entire administration.

You know where this leads. There will be another administration in  the future, and they will say in the first year of the administration:  Fund all 4 years. Hell, fund 5 years--1 year into my successor--fund  that. What does that strip away? It strips away the accountability  involved in the budget process.

Further, going down the road, we are creating a vortex of  unaccountable  spending and debt and a failure--a failure--to restrain this type of  massive misspending of American money. It is our treasure. Our treasure  is being spent, not for the things that Americans are concerned about  but for doubling down on the expansion of Trump's secret police.

This vision of families lose and billionaires win began with Trump's  inaugural speech. He didn't line up the champions for families behind  him. There was no healthcare champion. There was no housing champion.  There was no education champion. There was no champion for  infrastructure in America. But there was a line of billionaires  standing right behind the President. That is what this administration  has been about: families lose and billionaires win.

Well, there is a better vision for our Nation, and that better vision  is families thrive and billionaires pay their fair share. That is a  vision--in a government by and for the people--that all 100 Senators  should be supporting: Families thrive, and the rich and well-off pay  their fair share.

Let's work toward that vision--not just in this year or in the year  to come but for the next generation and the generation that follows.