Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696337/trump-administration


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, retaining the floor, I yield to the  question that is being posed by my colleague from Massachusetts.

Mr. MERKLEY. I yield for a question to be posed by my colleague from  Massachusetts.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see that my  colleague from Massachusetts is here and has gotten half of her  question out.

If you would like to continue the question, I would invite you to  give me a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I thank so much my colleague from Massachusetts for the  question of how the price of goods around the country is linked to  Trump's authoritarian undertakings. It kind of boils down to this--and  a colleague came to the floor and used this term a little while ago, a  colleague from New Hampshire. She said: In an authoritarian structure,  the authoritarian believes that the people are accountable to the  authoritarian, and in a democracy, the leader believes that the leader  is accountable to the people. That is the difference.

So if you are in a situation where you have an authoritarian for the  President, first thing they do is try to erode the checks and balances  of the constitution to concentrate more and more power in the  Executive. Of course, we see that in all kinds of ways we have been  discussing.

Then they proceed to try to change the rules for elections so they  can rig the next elections.

Then they start to attack any form of dissent--suppress freedom of  assembly, freedom of press, freedom of speech and due process. We see  that.

Then they say: Now we want to free the military. But in all of that  is this sense that the people are simply pawns for the authoritarian  President.

Then, in that setting, it becomes just fine to do a bill that savages  healthcare for the people to fund tax breaks for billionaires. It  becomes just fine to do a bill that savages child nutrition to do tax  breaks for billionaires. It becomes just fine to run up debt over the  next 30 years $30 trillion to fund tax breaks for billionaires.

That is the way the authoritarian personality is connected to the  policies that emerge from bills that authoritarian champions. They are  not bills by and for the people; they are bills by and for the  powerful.

I see that my colleague from Connecticut has come to the floor, and I  would be happy to yield if you have a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield, absolutely.

Mr. MERKLEY. I really appreciate the question from my colleague. It  is quite an interesting moment right now because unless there is a  decision that has been made while I have been speaking--and that is  certainly possible due to the amount of time--there has not yet been a  decision by the district judge to dissolve the second temporary  restraining order. So the National Guard has not been federalized and  able to deploy.

But it was going to depend on what happened at midnight last night,  in which the district judge had said: I want to see if the circuit  court decides to do an en banc panel. That is a fancy way of saying,  instead of 3 judges evaluating the situation, a panel of 12 judges--the  chief judge and other judges from the Ninth Circuit, selected  randomly--would examine the decision. If that was going to happen, my  impression was she was going to hold off.

The other thing that was unfolding was that the Seventh Circuit,  putting Illinois--and Chicago has been really affected by this. The  Seventh Circuit made a decision in support of the district court there,  but that looked like it was going to the Supreme Court. And they may do  a shadow docket decision very soon, at any moment, which could also  affect what happens. So my guess is soon.

If none of those happens, my guess is that soon, in fact, the second  temporary restraining order will have been dissolved, and that will  give the ability for the National Guard to be in their mission.

I think there has been a lot of effort put into saying: These are our  Oregonians. These are our soldiers, our folks. We have gone and  supported them as they have gone on missions to Iraq and missions to  Afghanistan and missions elsewhere in the world. We go and we welcome  them home, and we think that they will have a very deep understanding  that whatever they are instructed to do, they will not deliberately do  provocative things.

The thing that would really sour the situation--I am putting up a  little picture here that I know you can't see, but it is a picture of  one of the Federal agents, not the Oregon National Guard, walking up  and spraying a protester straight in the face. She had gotten out of  the way as she was requested. She was sharing her opinion in a vocal  manner but not in the way of anything--she had moved as requested. When  people see that and other things where agents start assaulting peaceful  protesters, that is where things get dicey.

So far, the Portlanders have said this is what Trump wants. He has  almost instructed people, these other Federal agents, to come and  provoke a riot. In fact, they even staged a fake riot last week, which  was an extraordinary thing that should trouble every American.

He asked the protesters to back up several hundred yards, and they  did that without conflict. So there was no tussle. There was no  breaking the line. There was no throwing of things. They backed up. But  behind the line of the Federal agents--probably Federal Protective  Service--were videographers. The goal was to tape a fake riot. After  they had been backed up, on command, the Federal Protective Service  threw down the flash-bangs, which sound like gunfire. They threw down  tear gas with big pluming smoke that was very irritating, and they  fired pepper balls at the crowd. Well, the net result of that is the  protesters scattered while being videographed so they would look--so  that Trump's team could say: Look, there was a riot.

I just can't believe that our government would stage a fake riot like  that. It was carefully preserved and recorded by Oregon Public  Broadcasting. So I am confident in saying what happened.

I don't think anything like that will ever happen with the Oregon  National Guard. I think they will be extraordinarily careful to execute  their mission in a professional fashion and to provide a little bit of  encouragement to protesters: Get out of the way of the car--or do  things like that.

That is my belief of our Oregon National Guard.

There is also the Oregon National Guard from California. The  President said he is going to send some from Texas. That could still be  possible. I just hope all are well-trained, and that it is a redline  that you never attack a peaceful protester.

So far, the Portland protesters decided to engage in joy and whimsy.  They have just frustrated the hell of the Trump team because they want  riots. No, there is the ``pastries and pajamas'' team, and there is the  Puppy Dogs for Peace team, a wedding taking place, a Unipiper doing the  bagpipes on his unicycle, and there are folks putting down candles on  the ground and flowers in the air and just basically doing the cha-cha  slide. I have no idea how to do that, but maybe I will learn down the  road here.

But this type of joy and whimsy has been a terrific way to respond to  Trump trying to provoke violence and failing to do so. I think the  Oregon National Guard will be extremely professional.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes, I yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. The reforms that my colleague speaks of are incredibly  important because we have a standard under title 10. Under title 10,  which is the federalization of the National Guard, the standard is  there has to be a rebellion and there has to be an invasion.

A rebellion: a sizable group, well-organized, well-armed, seeking to  overthrow the government.

An invasion: a significant military force coming across to attack us.

They are well-understood terms. Even with that title 10, I am very  nervous because even though the law does not say to give deference to  the President in title 10, two of the judges said you should give  deference to the President, which I find absurd because what it means  is these standards that were crafted in legislation here--I am sure  broadly and intensely debated--and said no, it has to be a rebellion or  it has to be on the verge of a rebellion and the understanding of what  that would look like--and to say it is a rebellion just because the  President says there is one and there is nothing, like that type of  deference, that is throwing open the gates to say an authoritarian  President can roll out the military under title 10. That is scary as  hell.

The Insurrection Act, in ways, is even scarier because it does have  an explicit deference to the executive. So while it has a standard, it  says that, interpreting that standard, there should be deference. I  have read a number of analyses that say there is no way that the  Supreme Court is not going to essentially say that the President  interprets what is happening, given the language that exists there.  That was written with the belief that we would always have a capable,  responsible defender of the Constitution in the Oval Office and we  don't. So reforming that act and closing that loophole absolutely is  incredibly important to save our Republic.

Mr. MERKLEY. I note that my colleague from Oregon, following proper  protocol here, has arrived on the floor. I would be happy to answer a  question, should you have one.

(Mr. SHEEHY assumed the Chair.)

Mr. MERKLEY. I would be happy to yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you so much to my colleague from Oregon for this  question.

It is very powerful to think about how fast the menace grew through  the Jewish community in Germany and how, if one did not recognize that  threat--and if I understood it right, the women in the family were the  ones who said: We have got to get out of here--

Mr. MERKLEY.--to save their futures and, therefore, your future.

Why? Why do we have to have a world where the powerful engage in  these assaults based on race or religion or ethnicity?

I sometimes hear Rodney King in my head--``Why can't we just all get  along?''--after he had been badly, badly beaten.

The fact is, it seems like we have a long ways to go to erase  prejudice from our hearts, and when people gain positions of power who  carry that prejudice in their hearts, it often becomes open hatred and  amplifies the ability of others to more openly discriminate or engage  in provocative acts. So, anyway, I hope the generations to come will  find a better path.

But in your question on securing liberty, this most important  message--and I will have my team put it back up--is the alarm bells are  now. The authoritarian actions are not down the street. They are not  around the corner. They are not something to worry about 2 months from  now. They are here right now.

All the basic characteristics of authoritarian control are present at  this moment in the United States of America: stealing the power of the  purse so that the President makes decisions of what programs are  funded; taking and ignoring due process, which is our guarantee of  freedom from an authoritarian state; attacking the issue of liberty for  the press to be able to write what they want and not be compelled  through using licenses or mergers as a way to coerce them to put up  what the government wants; the President telling the universities that  they need to shape their education the way the President wants and  support his political agenda--are you kidding me?--and so forth. And  then weaponizing the Department of Justice to go after an enemies list.

So it is here now. That is the main thing. And what do Americans do  to secure liberty?--what you did on Saturday, what you did on Saturday,  with 7 million people taking to the streets. It was the largest  demonstration in the history of this country, saying: No Kings in the  United States of America. Our Presidents are not Kings. Our laws are  not suggestions, and our Constitution is not optional.

That outcry, both inside a Chamber like this but, very importantly,  in the streets, is the outcry that tells the rest of the country: This  is not OK. This is not acceptable. This is breaking the law. This is  shredding the Constitution. This is attacking our freedoms, and we the  people will reclaim our Constitution, our separation of powers, and our  freedom.

That is why the action of demonstration and the action of speaking  out are so important at this moment. It needs to work toward the next  election where people of any party, if they believe in our  Constitution, campaign and win on the basis that they are going to  secure for the next generation--our generation and the next  generation--the freedoms and the characteristics of our Constitution  and make sure this doesn't happen again.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you so much to my colleague from Oregon.

And I so appreciate so many folks coming down to echo and amplify  that we have to ring the alarm bells now so the American people will be  very clear as to what is going on.

I see my colleague from Rhode Island, and I would be happy to yield  to him for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will, indeed, yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I say to my colleague from Rhode Island that, when an  authoritarian President starts collecting data in this fashion, they  probably have a plan for it, and that plan is not going to be one to  enhance liberty for the American people.

One of the things that I am deeply concerned about--and I am not sure  if this is the same database you are referring to--is a collection of  voter registration databases--is that the same? Yes--from across the  country.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes, I will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I appreciate that clarification of the question.

It is absolutely concerning. You can imagine the many ways in which  it can be weaponized. Any hostile agent from outside the United States  can use that data in all kinds of ways. What happens if, suddenly, your  Social Security benefits aren't there or the files regarding your  disability benefits or your age and birth records? Who all knows what  can disappear or be modified? Banking records are possibly included if  you had banking transactions to pay your taxes. It could be incredible  amounts of stuff.

We have had fairly protective practices of these databases, which is  why, when DOGE went in with laptops, there was a lot of resistance.  Some people who provided that resistance got moved aside physically to  enable DOGE to access.

Then there is this other database effort, which is the voting  registration database effort and the idea of collecting that. They have  been pushing the secretaries of state. Many States have said no, and  they are going to court; they are resisting. Well, thank goodness they  are because a national registration voter database can be used just  like a State can purge names from it, which several States have done,  saying: Oh, these names look the same. Maybe it is like you have two  Jack Ryans or, more commonly, it is done to Hispanic names, where they  say: Hey, there is the same name in Georgia as there is in Mississippi,  so we will purge this name.

I mean, it is hostile purging, and people don't know that they are no  longer registered until they go to the polls to vote, and then it is  often too late. So I am very, very concerned.

I want our States to maintain their own independent voting  registration databases because that would be a phenomenal way to  manipulate the next election.

I used to--and I say ``used to.'' Months ago, in February, people in  my  townhalls would say: Aren't you worried about an effort to postpone the  next election or declare an emergency?

And I would say: No. I just can't imagine that taking place.

Now, I can imagine that taking place because we have seen emergency  measures abused. We have seen the President assume powers he does not  have. For example, tariff power is not delegated to the President. It  has always been done by law here in this Chamber and down the Hall.

So when the President is that authoritarian--taking powers the law  doesn't grant, arguing it in court, and the court giving him more  power; and his consolidating information on voting, I am very, very  worried about that.

I want to encourage the secretaries of state in every State, whether  you are in a blue State or a red State, to hold onto your data, protect  it, back it up, double secure it, and tell the Feds to keep their hands  off.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes, I will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes. In regard to your question, I am extremely worried  about the Trump administration's effort to pave the path with the  courts and with the discipline of the military and have them in the  practice of being deployed to, if you will, in theory, quell unrest.

But the law on title 10 is very clear. You need to have a rebellion,  or you need to have an invasion, and it is very clear you don't have  either of those. Even then, two judges on the three-judge panel on this  court said: Well, let's kind of give a little more flexible definition  of ``rebellion,'' and by the way, maybe you can give more deference to  the President's evaluation. After all, they run the building.

Once you say the President can simply declare there is a rebellion,  then the standard set in law means nothing. You are just throwing open  the doors to an authoritarian President who is deploying troops against  the American people.

We have already seen, with the provocative actions of assaults on  peaceful protesters, how dangerous that is. And, then, of course, the  Insurrection Act, as an exception to Posse Comitatus, is extremely  scary because it explicitly has in the law a certain interpretation by  the President, or deference to interpretation by the President. The  core assumption was that a person in that position would always be a  person who had high regard for the Constitution and for the boundaries  and for the liberties and for the freedom and would defend it with  their whole heart, mind, and soul. But that is not a person we have in  the Oval Office today.

So I do support efforts that a number of folks--and I believe you  might be well involved in--are striving to plug some of those loopholes  so that that power does not get deployed.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you.

I note that we have a Senator from Wisconsin. I would be happy to  yield for a question, if she had one.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will happily yield. Thank you.

Mr. MERKLEY. I so appreciate the question from my colleague from  Wisconsin.

Part of the discussion earlier was you can detect a difference  between a democracy and an authoritarian government in the following  fashion: Are the decisions about which programs are funded, how they  will operate, and how they are funded decided by the Congress or by the  President? That is the power of the purse, and it is so clearly laid  out by our Founders that you put it in Congress's hands because if you  put it in the President's hands, you have a strongman--1 person, not  100 people in this Chamber bringing their diverse life experiences,  their knowledge, their particular interests, and saying these things  are important to our various parts of the country. You just have one  man from New York deciding what is important, one man who hangs out  with a group of billionaires deciding what is important.

So an incredibly essential distinction between a democracy and an  authoritarian government is the decisions about the programs, their  design, and their funding are made by Congress.

What we have seen is that the President and his head of Office of  Management and Budget, Russell Vought, are attempting to take that  power out of the hands of Congress and have the President decide which  programs are funded and how much.

Every time you hear the President say: I canceled these grants  because they are out of sync with the priorities of the President, that  is an authoritarian statement because it is not the President's  prerogative to decide how to spend that money; it is the power of the  people, through their elected representatives in the House and Senate.

Then, in addition, Mr. Vought has coordinated a series of strategies  to essentially cancel programs by slow-walking the disbursal of funds;  by freezing the funds; by impounding the funds; by delaying until the  end of the year and then submitting a request to legislatively have the  funds undone but then the clock runs out on the year, and poof, the  funds disappear. He has a fancy name for it: a pocket rescission. But  think of it more like the carriage in ``Cinderella'' that hits  midnight, and poof, the carriage is gone, and you only have a pumpkin.  In this case, we only have a lump of coal when we hit the end of the  year.

Then there is a requirement under the law for the President to lay  out an expenditure schedule so that we can see whether or not funds are  being delayed, or frozen, impounded, and so forth, and that schedule  has disappeared. That website has been shut  down. So the President is hiding, and contrary to the law, what is  required so that we can protect the prerogatives of our Constitution.

These are the ways the President is directly attacking the power of  the purse and trying to turn this--this is one of the ways. He is doing  a whole series of other things, in attacks on freedom, on weaponization  of the Department of Justice to go after enemies, sending the military  into the streets. But this is a key one in terms of the checks and  balances of our Constitution. He is trying to take the power of the  purse and has made substantial progress in doing so.

Mr. MERKLEY. I see my colleague from Hawaii has arrived, and should  she have a question--

Mr. MERKLEY. I would be happy to yield.

Mr. MERKLEY. If the Senator from Hawaii will repeat the last sentence  of her question, I would appreciate it.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you so much for the question.

When I hear that word ``corruption''--and I admit, I am starting to  feel a little dazed after these many hours on the floor--my head goes,  first, to the financial corruption of the President, but there are  always other forms of corruption he has engaged in, in terms of  corrupting the basic balance of the separation of powers and the checks  and balances. But let me speak, first, to the financial corruption.

One thing that we have seen is that he is using the Presidency to  enrich himself and his companies and his family.

The most blatant example of this is when he said: I have this product  that I want people to buy. I am going to hold a competition, and the  people who buy the most of this product, a crypto coin, would be  invited to a very special dinner at my golf club, where I will be  present, and you will have access to me.

So he sold access to the Presidency to the people who bought the most  of his crypto coins. In that case, it was a meme coin, and that means,  basically, the coin is a collectible. It basically has no value.

But then he engaged in another form of crypto corruption, and that  involved saying: We are going to have a stablecoin. And a stablecoin  means you give me a dollar, and I give you a crypto token that you can  use in international transactions.

Then there was a transaction involving--I believe; I hope I still  have this right--the United Arab Emirates. They basically bought  several billion dollars of these coins. What happens then is that the  President can hold those dollars until the coins are redeemed and  benefit from the interest earned on those several billion dollars.

Meanwhile, there was a desire by the foreign government to get access  to highly capable AI chips. The answer was, no, we are not doing that.  But then after they bought all these coins and enriched the President  of the United States, well, then the President said: Let's give them  the coins; let's give them these advanced chips.

So, certainly, the smoke, and I would say even the flame, of selling  access and favors out of the Presidency is now to the tune of having  made billions of dollars in the roughly 9 months that he has been in  office.

I would be happy to yield for another question if you were talking  about a different type of corruption.

I yield--I don't yield yet because I have to do this protocol right.

I see my colleague from New Hampshire is on the floor, and I would  welcome a question, if you have one.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes, I will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Absolutely.

Mr. MERKLEY. I so much appreciate the good report and question from  my colleague from New Hampshire and appreciate her leadership on the  Foreign Relations Committee as the top Democrat, working hard to  partner across the aisle for the common cause of international  security.

Every time I think about Ukraine, I think about how fiercely,  including in the Orange Revolution, in which they did so much to say:  No, we will not be taken over by Russia; we will not be put under the  thumb of Russia by one of our Presidents. They have said: We see the  system to our north where there is no freedom, where people are not in  charge of their own destiny because they are ruled by a dictator, and  we reject that and will fight with our lives--and so many have, in  fact, perished on the battlefield--to defend our freedom.

That inspires me every time I think about it.

At the moments in which President Trump has been less supportive of  Ukraine and more supportive of Russia, I have tried to send him magical  vibes--no--understand the difference between standing with a nation  fighting for freedom and snuggling up with a dictator. We are a light  to the world when we fight for democracy and support democracy.

So I am really pleased to hear about these three bills passing, and I  hope that other factors can be worked up in the international community  that will help slow down the Russian war machine. They are an  incredibly large country, and they have built huge factories to produce  cruise missiles, and so, nightly, Ukraine is hammered with hundreds  now. So it just means more resolve by the United States, more resolve  by Europe.

I am surprised to hear that the Europeans collectively are spending  more on defense than the United States. If that had been a trivia  question, I would have failed. But there it is, and that certainly has  been partly to recognize the threat from Russia.

If Russia is willing to slice off a piece of Georgia, as they were in  2008, I believe; if they are willing to throw thousands of soldiers  into a fight with Ukraine really with no consideration--I mean, it is  just like fodder to the war machine. And then we are seeing that they  are overflying some of the other European countries. And these are  incredibly provocative.

So I think all of that goes toward hopefully forging a unity of  purpose between Europe and the United States.

Something you may not know--one of the skeletons in my closet is I  spent a rotation working at NATO in Brussels when we were trying to  develop a treaty for intermediate-range missiles because of the nuclear  threats, to stabilize the threats, in the middle of the 1980s. The  United States and Europe worked so closely together. That is the type  of partnership--it is the type of partnership that has taken some hits  in the last few years. We want to restore that vision of that careful,  detailed, determined coordination so that we advance the best  strategies. And, of course, battlefield strategies are also changing  dramatically as we go--being able to adjust to this changing world.

So that is my hope, that building on the work the committee did  today--and hopefully those bills will be here on the floor, and  hopefully they will be on the President's desk--that we can continue to  strive to a peaceful conclusion with security for Ukraine and not allow  the war machine of Russia to overwhelm it.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, for the first time in several hours, I  don't have a colleague who is asking me a question, and so I am going  to return to the conversation that I was holding forth on regarding the  Department of Justice.

I have here this page called ``Justice Connection, Urgent Message  from Recent DOJ Alumni Decrying Attacks on Justice Department.'' I  believe I asked unanimous consent to have this put in the Record, but  if I did not, I am asking it now.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you very much, Mr. President.

Here is how that reads:

We are 292 former career employees who proudly served our       country at the Department of Justice. From prosecutors,       special agents, and intelligence analysts to immigration       judges, grant managers, civil rights attorneys and more, we       all carried out our duties faithfully, regardless of who       occupied the White House. Until we no longer could.

Each of us left the Department, either voluntarily or       involuntarily, because of actions taken by this       administration.

Our fidelity to the Constitution and our dedication to our       country did not end when our jobs did. Now that we've left       the Department, we believe it's our duty to sound the alarm       about this administration's degradation of DOJ's vital work,       and its assault on the public servants who do it.

It is incumbent on all of us to fight for the Justice       Department before it's too late.

DOJ's mission is to ``to uphold the rule of law, to keep       our country safe, and to protect civil rights.'' It's failing       on all three fronts:

The Justice Department cannot uphold the rule of law when       it carries out the President's retribution campaign and       protects his allies; violates court orders and evades due       process requirements; directs attorneys to violate their       ethical responsibilities; and fires its employees without       notice or cause in violation of civil service laws.

It also cannot keep our country safe when it ousts FBI       employees, prosecutors, national security experts, and ATF       officials; shutters offices that prevent community violence       and dismantle drug trafficking operations; purges the       attorneys who enforce laws that protect the environment; and       shifts highly trained special agents away from       counterintelligence and counterterrorism.

And it cannot protect civil rights when it drives out 75%       of attorneys from the Civil Rights Division and refuses to       enforce the nation's civil rights laws as Congress intended,       using them instead as a cudgel against marginalized groups.

The administration is taking a sledgehammer to other       longstanding work the Department has done to protect       communities and the rule of law, too. Its plans to eliminate       the Tax Division, which saves the country billions of dollars       by pursuing tax evaders, will leave us poorer. Gutting the       Public Integrity Section and FBI public corruption squads has       paved the way for government graft. Cancelling hundreds of       millions of dollars in grants has left at-risk communities       less protected and crime victims less supported. The list       could go on.

As for its treatment of its employees, the current       leadership's behavior has been appalling. This       administration's lies about the ``deep state'' and       exaggerations about government inefficiency have eroded the       respect our country once held for public servants. And       demonizing, firing, demoting, involuntarily transferring, and       directing employees to violate their ethical duties has       already caused an exodus of over 5,000 of us--draining the       Department of priceless institutional knowledge and       expertise, and impairing its historical success in recruiting       top talent. We may feel the effects of this for generations.

The Justice Department's backbone has always been its       career workforce, and those who were part of it are best       positioned to explain why the current leaders' actions are       catastrophic for the nation.

We call on these leaders to reverse course--to remember the       oath we all took to uphold the Constitution--and adhere to       the legal guardrails and institutional norms on which our       justice system relies.

We call on our fellow alumni to join us in sounding the       alarm, and in mobilizing to support our colleagues still       there. They deserve respect and gratitude, neither of which       they're getting from this administration.

We call on Congress to exercise its oversight       responsibilities far more vigorously. Members in both       chambers and on both sides of the aisle must provide a       meaningful check on the abuses we're witnessing.

And we call on all Americans--whose safety, prosperity, and       rights depend on a strong DOJ--to speak out against its       destruction.

Our democracy is only as strong as the rule of law, and the       rule of law can't survive without the principal institution       that enforces it.

Well, that is a powerful letter from these 292 former career  employees of the Department of Justice.

I was very struck about the phrase that says: ``We call on Congress  to exercise its oversight responsibilities.''

That came up about an hour ago, in one of the conversations, that we  could do so much more and we should try to be partnering with our  Republican colleagues to provide that essential function of oversight.  That is one of the checks and balances, and we should be deeply engaged  in making it as effective as possible because here is quite a list of  the things going wrong with the Department of Justice.

These things beg for hearings to be held, for issues to be  understood, for the press to be able to report, for solutions to be  able to be found, for lines that prevent unacceptable conduct to be  clearly delineated.

But that can't happen unless Congress exercises its oversight  ability.

OK. We have Chapter 8. So we are headed back to the book, and the  book is this book, ``How Democracies Die.'' And with each chapter, I am  trying to give some sense of the chapter but not every element of it.  So I will read some of the pages, maybe scan through some others, and  try to address a few of the issues that I will raise.

This particular chapter addresses President Trump's first year in his  first administration, and it is titled: Trump's first year: an  authoritarian report card. So remember this was just his first year in  office. We are now in his fifth year in office, headed toward his sixth  year in office, and we have seen such an acceleration. So the items  identified in the first year, well, we may well see that they become  more serious over time.

Donald Trump's first year in office followed a familiar       script. Like Alberto Fujimori, Hugo Chavez, and Recep Tayyip       Erdogan, America's new president began his tenure by       launching blistering rhetorical attacks on his opponents. He       called the media the ``enemy of the American people,''       questioned judges' legitimacy, and threatened to cut federal       funding to major cities. Predictably, these attacks triggered       dismay, shock, and anger across the political spectrum.       Journalists found themselves at the front lines, exposing--      but also provoking--the president's norm-breaking behavior. A       study by the Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics, and       Public Policy found that the major news outlets were       ``unsparing'' in their coverage of the Trump administration's       first hundred days. Of news reports with a clear tone, the       study found, 80 percent were negative--much higher than under       Clinton (60 percent), George W. Bush (57 percent), and Obama       (41 percent).

Soon, Trump administration officials were feeling besieged.       Not a single week went by in which press coverage wasn't at       least 70 percent negative. And amid swirling rumors about the       Trump campaign's ties to Russia, a high profile special       counsel, Robert Mueller, was appointed to oversee       investigations into the case. Just a few months into his       presidency, President Trump faced talk of impeachment. But he       retained the support of his base, and like other elected       demagogues, he doubled down. He claimed his administration       was beset by powerful establishment forces, telling graduates       of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy that ``no politician in       history, and I say this with great surety, has been treated       worse or more unfairly.'' The question, then, was how Trump       would respond. Would an outsider president who considered       himself to be under unwarranted assault lash out, as happened       in Peru and Turkey?

President Trump exhibited clear authoritarian instincts       during his first year in office. In Chapter 4, we presented       three strategies by which elected authoritarians seek to       consolidate power: capturing the referees, sidelining the key       players, and rewriting the rules to tilt the playing field       against opponents. Trump attempted all three of these       strategies.

President Trump demonstrated striking hostility toward the       referees--law enforcement, intelligence, ethics agencies, and       the courts. Soon after his inauguration, he sought to ensure       that the heads of U.S. intelligence agencies, including the       FBI, the CIA, and the National Security Agency, would be       personally loyal to him, apparently in the hope of using       these agencies as a shield against investigations into his       campaign's Russia ties. During his first week in office,       President Trump summoned FBI Director James Comey to a one-      on-one dinner in the White House in which, according to       Comey, the president asked for a pledge of loyalty. He later       reportedly pressured Comey to drop investigations into his       recently departed national security director, Michael Flynn,       pressed Director of National Intelligence Daniel Coats and       CIA Director Mike Pompeo to intervene in Comey's       investigation, and personally appealed to Coats and NSA head       Michael Rogers to release statements denying the existence of       any collusion with Russia (both refused).

President Trump also tried to punish or purge agencies that       acted with independence. Most prominently, he dismissed Comey       after it became clear that Comey could not be pressured into       protecting the administration and was expanding its Russia       investigation. Only once in the FBI's eighty-two-year history       had a president fired the bureau's director before his ten-      year term was up--and in that case, the move was in response       to clear ethical violations and enjoyed bipartisan support.

The Comey firing was not President Trump's only assault on       referees who refused to come to his personal defense. Trump       had attempted to establish a personal relationship with       Manhattan-based U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, whose       investigations into money laundering reportedly threatened to       reach Trump's inner circle; when Bharara, a respected       anticorruption figure, continued the investigation, the       president removed him. After Attorney General Jeff Sessions       recused himself from the Russia investigation and his deputy,       Rod Rosenstein, appointed the respected former FBI Director       Robert Mueller as special counsel to oversee the       investigation, Trump publicly shamed Sessions, reportedly       seeking his resignation. White House lawyers even launched an       effort to dig up dirt on Mueller, seeking conflicts of       interest that could be used to discredit or dismiss him. By       late 2017, many of Trump's allies were openly calling on him       to fire Mueller, and there was widespread concern that he       would soon do so.

So in this section, we are hearing about all of the attacks on the  referees during Trump's--and this is just a classic part of an  authoritarian government--attack the referees. And, of course, we saw  it in year five, this year. Immediately, Trump took out special  investigators of the various Agencies and did so in order to make sure  that there wasn't the type of oversight that would point out to the  public or to Congress where things were going wrong.

Take out the referees--that is the authoritarian strategy being laid  out here.

President Trump's efforts to derail independent       investigations evoked the kind of assaults on the referees       routinely seen in less democratic countries--for example, the       dismissal of Venezuelan Prosecutor General Luisa Ortega, a       chavista appointee who asserted her independence and began to       investigate corruption and abuse in the Maduro government.       Although Ortega's term did not expire until 2021 and she       could be legally removed only by the legislature (which was       in opposition hands), the government's dubiously elected       Constituent Assembly sacked her in August 2017.

President Trump also attacked judges who ruled against him.       After Judge James Robart of the Ninth Circuit of the U.S.       Court of Appeals blocked the administration's initial travel       ban, Trump spoke of ``the opinion of this so-called judge,       which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our       country.'' Two months later, when the same court temporarily       blocked the withholding of federal funds from sanctuary       cities, the White House denounced the judgment as an attack       on the rule of law by an ``unelected judge.'' Trump himself       responded by threatening to break up the Ninth Circuit.

The president took an indirect swipe at the judiciary in       August 2017 when he pardoned the controversial former Arizona       sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was convicted of violating a federal       court order to stop racial profiling. Arpaio was a political       ally and a hero to many of Trump's anti-immigrant supporters.       As we noted earlier, the chief executive's constitutional       power to pardon is without limit, but presidents have       historically exercised it with great restraint, seeking       advice from the Justice Department and never issuing pardons       for self-protection or political gain. President Trump boldly       violated these norms.

Not only did he not consult the Justice Department, but the       pardon was clearly political--it was popular with his base.       The move reinforced fears that the President would eventually       pardon himself and his inner circle--something that was       reportedly explored by his lawyers. Such a move would       constitute an unprecedented attack on judicial independence.       As constitutional scholar Martin Redish put it, ``If the       president can immunize his agents in this manner, the courts       will effectively lose any meaningful authority to protect       constitutional rights against invasion by the executive       branch.''

This discussion over pardoning himself and the risk it creates of  misbehavior is an interesting prelude to the fact that, essentially,  the Supreme Court pardoned Trump, saying that the President cannot  commit a crime. If he can't commit a crime, then you can do whatever  and you don't have to be pardoned because you haven't committed a  crime. So the Supreme Court essentially gave him the same protection  and created the same risk for an authoritarian state that Trump  pardoning himself would have resulted in.

The administration responded by launching attacks on the       OGE.

Office of Government Ethics.

House Oversight Chair Jason Chaffetz, a Trump ally, even       hinted at an investigation of Shaub. In May, administration       officials tried to force the OGE to halt investigations into       the White House's appointment of ex-lobbyists. Alternately       harassed and ignored by the White House, Shaub resigned,       leaving behind what journalist Ryan Lizza called a ``broken''       OGE.

President Trump's behavior toward the courts, law       enforcement and intelligence bodies, and other independent       agencies was drawn from an authoritarian playbook. He openly       spoke of using the Justice Department and the FBI to go after       Democrats, including Hillary Clinton. And in late 2017, the       Justice Department considered nominating a special counsel to       investigate Clinton. Despite its purges and threats, however,       the administration could not capture the referees. Trump did       not replace Comey with a loyalist, largely because such a       move was vetoed by key Senate Republicans. Likewise, Senate       Republicans resisted Trump's efforts to replace Attorney       General Sessions. But the president had other battles to       wage.

I think this is an important moment to remember that back in 2017,  colleagues across the aisle played a role of reason in pushing back on  some of the unacceptable things that Trump was trying to do.

They protected Comey. As it said:

Trump did not replace Comey with a loyalist, largely       because such a move was vetoed by key Senate Republicans.       Likewise, Senate Republicans resisted Trump's efforts to       replace Attorney General Sessions.

Early in the conversation, we were talking about the importance of  one of the checks and balances of the Constitution, which is for the  Senate and the House to hold hearings on what is going on.

When I read the two-page letter from the 283, I believe it was, 282  former career employees at the Department of Justice, they laid out a  host of things that are going wrong. It is essentially an invitation:  Please hold hearings because a lot of bad stuff is happening inside the  Department of Justice.

So I encourage colleagues on both sides of the aisle who serve on the  Judiciary Committee to take them up on that invitation, to bring these  former members and others to share what is going on, because that is  our responsibility under the Constitution, to provide that type of  spotlight, insight, and  hopefully advice to help the administration, well, more effectively and  legally pursue the enhancement of the American system of justice.

Of course, this whole litany of the way Trump attacked the referees  was a prelude to the absolute assault on the referees that occurred  during this year in such a systematic fashion, in such an expanded  fashion.

The Trump administration also mounted efforts to sideline       key players in the political system. President Trump's       rhetorical attacks on critics in the media are an example.       His repeated accusations that outlets such as the New York       Times and CNN were dispensing ``fake news'' and conspiring       against him look familiar to any student of authoritarianism.       In a February 2017 tweet, he called the media the ``enemy of       the American people,'' a term that, critics noted, mimicked       one used by Stalin and Mao. Trump's rhetoric was often       threatening. A few days after his ``enemy of the people''       tweet, Trump told the Conservative Political Action       Committee:

I love the First Amendment; nobody loves it better than me.       Nobody. . . . But as you saw throughout the entire campaign,       and even now, the fake news doesn't tell the truth. . . . I       say it doesn't represent the people. It never will represent       the people, and we're going to do something about it.

Do what, exactly? The following month, President Trump       returned to his campaign pledge to ``open up the libel       laws,'' tweeting that the New York Times had ``disgraced the       media world. Gotten me wrong for two solid years. Change       libel laws?'' When asked by a reporter whether the       administration was really considering such changes, White       House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said, ``I think that's       something we've looked at.'' Ecuadorian President Rafael       Correa used this approach. His multimillion-dollar defamation       suits and jailing of journalists on charges of defamation had       a powerfully chilling effect on the media. Although Trump       dropped the libel issue, he continued his threats. In July,       he retweeted an altered video clip made from old WWE footage       of him tackling and then punching someone with a CNN logo       superimposed on his face.

President Trump also considered using government regulatory       agencies against unfriendly media companies. During the 2016       campaign, he had threatened Jeff Bezos, the owner of the       Washington Post and Amazon, with antitrust action, tweeting:       ``If I become president, oh do they have problems.'' He also       threatened to block the pending merger of Time Warner (CNN's       Parent company) and AT&T, and during the first months of his       presidency, there were reports that White House advisors       considered using the administration's antitrust authority as       a source of leverage against CNN. And finally, in October       2017, Trump attacked NBC and other networks by threatening to       ``challenge their license.''

This was written in 2018, but you see the strategies as they are  reporting on January 2017 through January 2018. You see how the  strategies were being explored that have been so fiercely pursued this  year. You see that here he was threatening a merger, which is something  he did with CBS. You see that here he was threatening libel law  changes. And while he didn't do that, apparently, what he did in the  most recent year was to do a lawsuit, a $10 billion lawsuit against the  Wall Street Journal because he didn't like something that they said. He  also attacked, of course, ``60 Minutes'' over how they edited an  interview with Kamala Harris.

So the strategy of attacking the press in 2017 continues with Trump  reentering office in 2025.

And finally, in October 2017, Trump attacked NBC and other       networks by threatening to ``challenge their license.''

There was one area in which the Trump administration went       beyond threats to try to use the machinery of government to       punish critics. During his first week in office, President       Trump signed an executive order authorizing federal agencies       to withhold funding from ``sanctuary cities'' that refused to       cooperate with the administration's crackdown on undocumented       immigrants. ``If we have to,'' he declared in February 2017,       ``we'll defund.'' The plan was reminiscent of the Chavez       government's repeated moves to strip opposition-run city       governments of their control over local hospitals, police       forces, ports, and other infrastructure. Unlike the       Venezuelan president, however, President Trump was blocked by       the courts.

Although President Trump has waged a war of words against       the media and other critics, those words have not (yet) led       to action. No journalists have been arrested, and no media       outlets have altered their coverage due to pressure from the       government. Trump's efforts to tilt the playing field to his       advantage have been more worrying. In May 2017, he called for       changes in what he called ``archaic'' Senate rules, including       the elimination of the filibuster, which would have       strengthened the Republican majority at the expense of the       Democratic minority. Senate Republicans did eliminate the       filibuster for Supreme Court nominations, clearing the way       for Neil Gorsuch's ascent to the Court, but they rejected the       idea of doing away with it entirely.

Now, that topic is something I know a little bit about, having  immersed myself in exploration of the ins and outs of the filibuster.  And one may wonder why the Senate Republican majority did not proceed  to eliminate the filibuster. Well, here is the reason why: Mostly, my  Republican colleagues do their policy through tax bills. Tax bills can  be done through reconciliation, and reconciliation is a simple majority  mechanism. So, therefore, they largely don't need to dump the  filibuster because they can do their policy by simple majority already.

You saw that this year with the so-called Big Beautiful Bill that we  called the ``Big Ugly Betrayal,'' done solely on a party line, and if I  recall right, all of us in the 53-to-47 Senate--I think we ended up  with a 50-50 vote broken by the Vice President. So it passed by the  narrowest of margins, but it was done entirely on simple majority by  one party.

Meanwhile, Democrats tend to like policy ideas, and policy ideas  require a supermajority. So if you are a Republican leader, you can  pursue your objectives by simple majority through the tax bill, and  then when you are the minority, you can block the Democrats' policy  bills using the supermajority requirement.

So it is essentially: Heads, we win; tails, you lose. That is a  pretty good arrangement. Who would want to mess with that?

Now, Trump didn't understand that. I am sure if he was asked, he  couldn't explain it. But that is why it doesn't make sense for  Republicans to get rid of the filibuster, because it is inherently  advantageous for them, given the difference in how Democrats and  Republicans pursue bills.

Perhaps the most antidemocratic initiative yet undertaken       by the Trump administration is the creation of the       Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity,       chaired by Vice President Mike Pence but run by Vice Chair       Kris Kobach. To understand its potential impact, recall that       the Civil Rights and Voting Rights Acts prompted a massive       shift in party identification: The Democratic Party became       the primary representative of minority and first- and second-      generation immigrant voters, while GOP voters remained       overwhelmingly white. Because the minority share of the       electorate is growing, these changes favor the Democrats, a       perception that was reinforced by Barack Obama's 2008       victory, in which minority turnout rates were unusually high.

Every now and then, we see the parties flip on a significant issue.  That is always kind of an interesting question to explore how that  happens.

So here is the Republican Party that was founded, antislavery--the  Republican party that fought for civil rights bills against the  Southern Democrats who resisted civil rights bills, including  filibustering them to keep them from happening. So you would think that  in that situation, once civil rights were actually conveyed by the  Voting Rights Act, it might be the Republican Party that quickly  absorbed the new voters, since the Republican Party had been the  premiere champion for civil rights. But that is not the way it worked  out.

The Democratic Party, with Johnson, took the lead in overturning the  bans on voting participation by minority Americans. The Democratic  Party, although being the party that had long oppressed and suppressed  civil rights, became the party that pushed through the 1964 Civil  Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act. And it is the Democratic  Party, despite its long history of suppressing civil rights, that  became the welcoming party for newly-enfranchised minority voters.

Another interesting flip, in my mind, is on international trade. When  I came to the Senate, it was primarily Republicans who wanted the  Trans-Pacific Partnership. In fact, it was very important trading  strategy for very powerful companies. And it was mostly Democrats who  opposed it--not purely, but that was certainly the weight.

But then Trump, when he ran for President the first time, he started  advocating against the TPP and started advocating for bringing  factories back to America, including using tariffs to make American  factories more competitive. And so the Republican Party, after his  election, became the party that was driving against the TPP, and it was  more the Democrats who still had folks who were supporting it--anyway,  another flip worthy of thinking about as, over time, special events  take place that change the direction.

The first special event was the passage of the 1964 and 1965 bills,  led by Democrats that converted the anti-civil rights party into the  pro-civil rights party. And the flip on the Trans-Pacific Partnership  being driven by Trump's effort as a Republican candidate to become an  opponent of the TPP, rather than the traditional position of  Republicans to be for it.

Perceiving a threat, some Republican leaders came up with a       response that evoked memories of the Jim Crow South: make it       harder for low-income minority citizens to vote. Because poor       minority voters were overwhelmingly Democratic, measures that       dampened turnout among such voters would . . . tilt the       playing field in favor of Republicans. This would be done via       strict voter identification laws--requiring, for example,       that voters present a valid driver's license or other       government-issued photo ID upon arrival at the polling       station.

The push for voter ID laws was based on a false claim: that       voter fraud is widespread in the [U.S.] All reputable studies       have concluded that levels of such fraud in this country are       low.

Mr. MERKLEY. I see the Senator from Arizona on the floor, and, yes, I  would yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you so much to my colleague from Arizona for your  question.

I so appreciate the decades of experience and knowledge you bring in  regard to the services. I have only a small chapter in my life of 2  years working for Secretary Weinberger as a Presidential fellow. But I  didn't wear a uniform. I was a civilian working on a host of different  programs for 4 months or so. They were great assignments. I learned an  awful lot.

But everything you are talking about comes from your deep connection,  involvement in the uniformed services, and such a wealth of knowledge  just listening to you. I so appreciate that you bring that to bear.

In terms of my concern about the military, I felt, from my much more  limited world, mostly the Pentagon, that folks have worked incredibly  hard not to be partisan. Certainly, the Secretary of Defense brought a  set of missions that tied into President Reagan's administration and  his goals. But people didn't overtly talk about pardons or press in  terms of the sort of derisive commentary we have now and heard on cable  television on both sides.

When I think about these last few years, I am concerned that the  military has been substantially politicalized. I may be wrong about  that because I don't have that view from inside. But I think about how  the President gave the speech to the 800 generals, and he basically  said: If you don't like what I am saying, you can leave the room. If  you leave, I will strip you of your rank and your career will end.

To me, that was: I want you to be loyal to me, not the Constitution.  I want you to be loyal to me, the President of the United States, which  is, I felt, very inappropriate and out of sync with the military I saw,  ready to work in partnership with administrations of either side.

But I don't know if we see, for example, the speeches at the military  academy. I recall some story about folks cheering and clapping for what  was a partisan set of political points being made. I don't know. I am  going to leave it to your analysis because you have a much better sense  of that.

But when it comes to the effort to create a pathway to use the  military against civilians inside the United States of America, that is  of grave concern to my constituents; to look at the current dynamic now  in which President Trump said Portland is a war zone, it is war- ravaged, it is in complete chaos--while he was saying that, there might  have been two or three protesters outside the ICE building conducting  themselves peacefully; there have been weeks with no arrests--that is a  real invention.

When our Governor talked to President Trump, she pointed that out,  and I gather he was like, ``Well, I have seen the tapes.'' I don't know  what tapes he was watching, maybe 2020 tapes when we did have actual  conflict in the city. But here you have Portlanders, who have been so  restrained. Even when they have suffered being hit by pepper balls,  tear gas, they have not engaged in the scuffles with police, and they  have been protesting with joy and whimsy.

I mean, it is a strange feeling to see people bringing their pets  down and having ``Keep Your Paws Off Portland'' signs or folks handing  out pastries in pajamas or otherwise proceeding to celebrate their joy  as a way of saying to President Trump: There is no riot here. Don't use  anything that you have said as a foundation for deploying troops to our  city.

In fact, a district judge simply said that the President's  description of the city is untethered to the facts.

There is a huge concern that the President is striving to get the  courts to make decisions that will open the doors and say there will be  deference to the President so he can deploy, under title 10, the  National Guard, the federalized National Guard, against peaceful  protesters or that the President will proceed to using the Insurrection  Act, which does inherently give more support, deference, to the  President.

So there is a lot of concern, to my colleague from Arizona, about  what is going to unfold.

Meanwhile, I am delighted to see my colleague from New Mexico on the  floor, and I would welcome a question if he has one.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes, I will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes, I am yielding for your question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you so much for your question.

You have laid out so many points here about kind of the mismanagement  of America's funds, and we could add a few more to them: the craziness  of spending more money than it costs to buy a Presidential jet--to  rehab a jet that was given to the President so that he could actually  send it on to his personal library after he leaves office. It is  profoundly disturbing, and I appreciate the way you framed it.

There is enough money for luxury glitz--for a megaballroom. I can't  even imagine how anything could cost that much to build. Maybe there  will be an eighth-inch of gold on every surface or something--I don't  know--but that doesn't serve the American people. It doesn't make one  single person in America have better healthcare or a better education  or a decent home in a decent community or a better job. It doesn't give  you quality of opportunity. It doesn't tackle any of the environmental  issues.

It is simply a gross display by the President, who has constructed  his entire administration on the basis of a theory to govern, which is  ``families lose, and billionaires win.''

Families lose their healthcare so there can be massive tax breaks for  billionaires.

They lose their Medicaid on top of their ACA healthcare in order to  fund massive tax breaks for billionaires.

They lose their nutrition assistance to fund tax breaks for  billionaires.

Then, over the next 30 years, their bill runs up $30 trillion in  additional debt to fund these tax breaks for billionaires. Maybe I  should say ``trillionaires'' now. You think about how that debt, that  additional $30 trillion in debt, how much that would compromise the  ability to have future programs for healthcare and housing and  education.

Folks in my State--probably the same thing with folks in your State-- last Wednesday--the information come out a week ago so people could  look on the exchange and see what their policies are going to cost. We  don't have a new, comprehensive analysis. The preanalysis, the  projection, was that the average cost would go up not 5 percent or 10  percent or 15 percent but about 68 percent. That is because the premium  goes up, the tax credits come down, and costs become massively more  expensive--now maybe a lot more because the average across the country  is that premium payments would go up 114 percent--more than double.

How do you explain to anyone that you slashed their healthcare  affordability to fund a giveaway of $20 to $40 billion to Argentina or  to fund that new ballroom? I mean, that is insane. I mean, that is,  well, just like the rich rubbing our nose in it, for ordinary  Americans: You won't be able to afford healthcare, but, wow, we got  that new jet, that jet you talked about, for Noem--I hadn't heard about  that one. We got the new ballroom. We got the tax breaks for the  richest people.

This government by and for the billionaires ties into the  authoritarian perspective, because if you are a regular leader of a  democracy, you feel you are accountable to the people, and you would  never ever pursue a bill that defunds healthcare for ordinary families  to put more dollars in the pockets of the already richest Americans.  But if you are an authoritarian--and the entire time I have been on the  floor has been to ring the alarm bells. Ring the alarm bells.  Authoritarianism is here now. I am told that each time I say this, lots  of bells are posted online. So just for my team's fun, ring the alarm  bells. I want that to be heard all across America, that we are way off  track. This is the wrong way to go.

In a democracy, you want to have the foundation for families to  thrive because you are accountable to the people, and the people that  run the operation. But in an authoritarian government, boy, that is not  the case at all. Instead, it is like the leaders feel like the people  are accountable to them. So if they have to do without, well, too bad.  As the phrase goes, let them eat cake. If they don't have bread, oh,  let them eat cake.

So there we are. And our responsibility is to say to the American  people that the way to stop this authoritarian takeover is to have very  significant, robust demonstrations across America, like we had on  Saturday. The citizens have to make a big deal. Protest outside our  offices. Write to us. Phone us. Give us a hard time. Tell us we should  be doing more. It is that feedback that really caused me to say I need  to try to do more to ring the alarm bells about where we are headed  and, thus, to be up here all night and now through the morning and into  the afternoon.

I am getting a little unsteady on my feet, but if we collectively,  through this dialogue, are bringing attention to people in saying: Yes,  7 million people were out there in the streets--next time, we need 10  million. Do your local demonstration with those who went. Hear about  what they did, and spread the word that this is not normal, this  destruction of our rights; this weaponization of the judiciary to go  after political enemies; the effort to open the doors so that the  President can deploy, with the court's approval, the military into our  cities when there is no rebellion, no insurrection, and no invasion. So  that is our responsibility--to call it out and to carry on the fight.

I believe the American people are starting to understand just how  much their freedoms are being crushed, and that is why we need to be in  partnership, to steer this country back and save our Republic.

Mr. MERKLEY. I see the Senator from Washington State is on the floor,  and I would be very happy to yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Too many.

Mr. MERKLEY. I note that my colleague from Delaware is on the floor.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Yes, I am.

Mr. MERKLEY. I would welcome a question if you have one.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield for a question.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. First let me say thank you, Senator Merkley, for  your tenacity, your energy, your compassion, and your love for this  country. I mean, really, that is what this is about. That is why you  have been standing on this floor for over 20 hours, and I want to say  thank you on behalf of the American people.

And I want to say, Mr. President, we are now 21 days into this  Republican shutdown and well over 200 days into the Trump  administration.

Costs for housing are up, food prices are up, energy costs have gone  up, and we are about to see our healthcare costs skyrocket for millions  of Americans--all while the President pushes this country to the  literal brink of a constitutional crisis.

So let's recap. The Department of Defense is trying to censor the  press. This administration is offering deals to universities to teach  Trump priorities, taking away independence and academic freedom. They  tried to push dissenters off airwaves.

But this is America. And Senator Merkley--you and I know--here, the  people have the power, and the power of the people matters. Here, the  voices of our communities hold weight, and that is why I stand with you  as you ring the alarms.

The people are standing up, they are speaking out, and they are  saying: Enough is enough.

What does that look like? It looks like journalists, from MSNBC to  FOX News, handing in their DOD press badges, choosing to stand up for  their First Amendment rights rather than bowing to the whims of the  Secretary of Defense. It means universities are refusing to play ball,  declining the offer. It means Americans use the power of their purses  to say you will not silence someone like Jimmy Kimmel and he was  reinstated.

But it doesn't stop there. It is an unprecedented move by Federal  judges appointed by Democrats and Republicans alike that are speaking  out on an impending judicial crisis over the Supreme Court's emergency  orders.

State governments are joining compacts to protect access to public  health for citizens as this administration rips away access to  vaccines. Airports across America are refusing to play this  administration's propaganda videos. And perhaps most importantly,  millions of Americans from across our country have made their voices  known and heard.

Seven million Americans did what I think was truly a part of the  American spirit by using their voices in a peaceful way, assembling,  doing it in a way that was both joyful but also patriotic--and  demanding that we in Congress also stand up.

So we are standing up for our communities. And thank you again,  Senator Merkley, for doing so. And we are fighting for families across  America who are about to see their healthcare coverage go up or maybe  even be eliminated.

In this moment, we don't need a King. The people need a President for  all of the people--not a $20 billion bailout for Argentina, not a new  White House gold ballroom when people can't even afford to pay their  rent or to buy a home on their own--and not a Justice Department  bailout--all while November 1 is fast approaching and tens of millions  of Americans face this healthcare crisis: rising cost or a total  elimination of their healthcare or medical debt. Costs are already  high--and now this. It is time to do the right thing and to take a  stand.

And with the President poised to leave town, we ask that he stay and  pull together the partners--the House, which has been out of session.  And I came from the House. I don't think I ever saw anything like this  where they literally have been missing in action for weeks. As a matter  of fact, for our August break, they left in July. This is  unprecedented, and we need them back at the table. They need to do the  work.

And so my question to you, Senator Merkley: In light of what the  President wants to spend money on and what the American people need,  does the President have his priorities straight? Are his priorities  right on behalf of the American people?

Mr. MERKLEY. Well, thank you so much to my colleague from Delaware.

That question rather answers itself after listening to all the points  you were making, which were right on.

How can it possibly be the right priorities if you are spending your  money on tax breaks for billionaires while cutting the tax credits that  enable families to buy insurance at an affordable price? How can it  possibly be the right thing to do that you are cutting child nutrition  while you are spending a huge amount on a ballroom--undoubtedly a  Trumpian gold-style ballroom. How much was it: 200 million or 300  million? Some crazy, crazy sum. I can't even imagine how you could  spend that much on a room.

And you mentioned this $20 billion bailout--20 billion with a ``b''  bailout--for Argentina. Now, that one came out of nowhere. I don't  remember a bill on the floor here saying that we are passing a spending  bill that has in it a 20--and the President said maybe as much as a $40  billion bailout.

Is there some authority I don't know about, maybe? I don't know. The  books are complicated. But I doubt it because what this President is  doing as an authoritarian is just saying: I am going to do what the  hell I want. I am in charge. The bank account of America is mine. Hell,  I am going to build a glitzy ballroom, and I am going to try to  refurbish a jet for Air Force One that will only be workable for a few  months, if that, before I send it off to my Presidential library--a  huge waste of our money.

And this bailout for Argentina--you know, earlier I was talking to a  colleague from Washington State who said a lot of soybeans are shipped  through Washington State but they are normally bought by China. Well,  China isn't buying a single bean this year because of the tension and  the argument between our two nations over tariffs. One moment, the  President put a 50-percent tariff on China; and the next moment, they  are saying they are not going to send out any strategic minerals,  critical minerals. Next: Well, I will put a 100-percent tariff on you.

I mean, nobody makes an investment in the United States of America, a  factory here, when we are in tariff chaos. There is nothing about this  that does anything except throw people up and down, and everyone gets  hurt. They don't know if the tariffs are going to affect what they  sell. They don't know if they are going to be able to affect the inputs  of the things they manufacture. They don't know what they should plant  if they are farmers.

And where are all these beans--unsold soybeans--going to go this  year? Where are they going to be stored? Are they going to be wasted?  Are they going to be plowed back into the ground for fertilizer? I  don't know.

But I do know this chaos is terrible for America. And the small  business world came and talked to me yesterday, the representatives-- maybe you had them in your office as well--and they said: Main Street  is Pain Street. And I did hear that--I am going to note that Senator  Markey may have been the first person I heard that from. But I thought  that was a way to describe it.

And they certainly said: Yes, there are two components of that pain.  One is the loss of the credits to buy healthcare--because small  businesses don't have big plans with big insurers. They provide some  help, and folks go and buy on the exchange. And they said, second of  all, the tariffs.

So Main Street is Pain Street. That is not a good future for America.  And families with no health insurance, that is a terrible look for  America. And by ``look,'' I don't mean the atmospherics of it; I mean  that is the wrong mission in a republic.

And the connection I have been drawing between Trump's authoritarian  personality and tendencies is that an authoritarian feels that people  are accountable to him so he can do any damn thing he wants and control  anything without advice or controls or checks from anyone. And he has  hated it every time checks were applied in the past. He is going after  some of those folks now who applied those checks in the past.

And the leader of a democracy says: I am accountable to the people.  The people need healthcare, housing, education, good-paying jobs,  investment in infrastructure, quality of opportunity, and let's take on  some of those environmental problems. That is what a leader of a  democracy does.

So here we have this authoritarian President crushing our freedoms,  trying to steal the power of the purse from Congress to concentrate it  in the Executive, proceeding to spend money wherever he wants.

That $20 billion, I would love to see--I am not being coy. I would  rather have all of the Senators right here and say: Let's pass a bill  right now and say ``hell no.'' You know, a lot of that $20 billion is  going to the debt that has been built up in Argentina, and friends of  President Trump have reportedly bought that debt at a huge discount. I  didn't see how much of a discount. But what that means: If you buy a  dollar of debt and you buy it at, say--let's make the math easy--25  cents, then you get a 400-percent return if the money goes to Argentina  and they pay off the debt at face value.

That is not about making America first; that is about making Scott  Bessent and his friends--at least I have seen Scott Bessent's name in  some of those articles--and his friends, who are connected to buying up  Argentine debt. I am not sure if Scott himself bought it or not. But,  the point is, make some billionaires richer. It is another make a few  friends of the President and friends of his Cabinet members richer-- that $20 billion--or possibly $40 billion, the President said.

Think about that--20 billion. That is $50 for every single American  tossed in a pot to hand out to a strongman in Argentina. Forty  billion--$100 a person, handed out to a strongman. Every one of us,  take $100 out of our pocket.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Will the Senator yield for one more question?

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield for another question. Thank you.

Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. As you talked about the small businesses,  Senator, I was reminded that, as we look at who is actually purchasing  this healthcare in the marketplace--a lot of people don't even know  they are on ACA and receiving the tax credit--that half of them are  small businesses.

I come from Delaware. We are urban, suburban, rural, and coastal. And  so we also know that a quarter of farmers and ranchers are getting  their healthcare this way. And then we think about the fact that this  issue is disproportionally affecting red States, not just blue States.

All Americans are going to be hurt. This is why your ringing the  alarm is so important. And I would ask a very simple question: Is there  a connection between the healthcare crisis that we are in and an  authoritarian regime?

Mr. MERKLEY. Well, there is, absolutely, such a powerful connection  because the authoritarian doesn't care about the fundamental programs  for the people because they don't feel they are accountable to the  people.

So just as our authoritarian President is weaponizing the judiciary  to go after his opponents, he is using the power of the government over  licenses and mergers in order to try to control what broadcasting does  to attack freedom of speech, trying to control what our universities  teach by threatening the collapse--threatening and taking away the  research grants and telling them they can't have foreign students that  are essential to their revenue streams.

All of those authoritarian pieces--the stealing of the purse--but  then there is this piece, the philosophy, and the philosophy is: The  people owe me, the authoritarian; not I am accountable to them.

So, therefore, it is totally legit to go for legislation that slashes  the programs that are fundamental to families to make the rich richer.  And I want to go back to that picture that I had up earlier of the  billionaires standing behind President Trump at the inauguration. And  at that point, maybe we didn't know for sure that he had campaigned on  helping families. But we didn't see champions of families behind him.  We saw the billionaires behind him.

That is exactly what has happened. The philosophy is: Families lose  and billionaires win. And our effort, as those in a democracy, is that  we are fighting for the vision that families thrive, and the rich and  powerful pay a fair share.

Mr. MERKLEY. I would yield for a question. Yes.

Mr. MERKLEY. My colleague from New York, the minority leader, is  absolutely right. The Trump priorities are absolutely perverse. Well,  here we are in a structure of the Senate, and what is the Senate about?  Coming together and saying here is where I want to go; where do you  want to go? How can we make those two things work together to make  America better?

We can't always find the answer, but I will tell you one thing is  damn sure: You can't find the answer if you can't sit down and have the  conversation. And here with are with the House on vacation for over a  month. I guess they are getting paid.

And here we are in the Senate without an agreement to just sit down  and talk to each other about the framework because it appears that the  key, as you have suggested, the lynchpin is they will not sit down and  offer ideas and work out a deal without Trump in the room or Trump  guiding the outcomes.

So he is the factor.

So as he jets off--and in Oregon, last week, people, a week ago  Wednesday, they saw what their prices are going to be. The premiums are  higher; the credits lower. They have got to fill in the gap in between.  And are they going to be able to afford insurance? Are they going to be  able to make that decision by January 1? They are stressed about this.

I had small businesses in yesterday, representatives from Oregon, and  the vision there is ``Main Street is in Pain Street'' because of the  tariffs and because of the fact that many of them--a large share of  them--buy their insurance on the exchange.

And this man who runs a small company--it is a lighting-for-events  company--and I think he said he had four employees. I talked to three  of them, and three of them said: We are not buying insurance.

Mr. MERKLEY. We can't afford it. We looked at the new prices. We  can't afford it. We are going to go without insurance. We all know the  huge calamity.

Well, when the Speaker of the House that I saw on the boob tube--on  the television--says there is nothing to talk about, I think  immediately: There are 20 million reasons to talk about. Those 20  million are the 20 million Americans seeing these huge increases. Many  of them will not be able to buy insurance at all.

Let's add to that, since the bill, also, is just 15 months out now  from slashing in a devastating fashion our Medicaid Program, which in  combination with the effects on the Affordable Care exchange will put  15 million people out of healthcare, 235,000 in my home State of  Oregon--and 70 percent of the kids in my rural areas are part of the  Oregon Health Plan and are on Medicaid. I can just not even conceive of  the carnage that will be done to the quality of life without healthcare  available to so many people.

Isn't that a hell of a number of reasons to sit down and brainstorm  together? You can't get to a common purpose if you can't even talk to  each other. You are here. Your office is open. You are available to  talk. You are inviting them to talk. They are saying no. That is a  travesty in our Republic.

Mr. MERKLEY. That is horrific that he is flying away. He absolutely  should be sitting down right now and holding a conversation with you  about how we solve this problem for millions of Americans.

Mr. MERKLEY. I see my colleague from Vermont on the floor. I will  take a question if he has one.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you to my colleague from Vermont. I appreciate  your points, and I do share them, yes. You expressed them thoroughly  and compassionately. And thank you for your advocacy.

I see that my colleague from Virginia is on the floor. Would my  colleague from Virginia consider asking a question?

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield for a question, yes.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you so much, my colleague for Virginia, for laying  out this story, which is then quite presented because of its  extraordinary nature, to have U.S. attorneys basically fired in short  order because they stood up for the principle of the rule of law,  rather than agree to be part of a political persecution or prosecution  team.

And I must say they are candidates to go up on my wall of heroes. And  I so respect--now here, as you said with Todd, he wasn't coming from  the blue side of the aisle. And he wasn't just a newbie to the house.  He was the leader of the house Republicans. When they were in charge,  he was the speaker.

Now, I was the speaker as well. I have a little affection for the  speakers, but I know how difficult it can be to run a chamber. So you  have to be deeply, deeply connected to your colleagues and your caucus  as you manage that process.

So this individual, just by that resume, clearly, was coming with a  set of values deeply rooted in the Republican Party. The value he  didn't have was to screw over innocent people. And thank goodness we  still have people willing to stand up for justice not, if you will,  injustice.

Because that is what we are seeing. We see it in the form of the  enemies list that the President is going after, but we also see it--and  more hidden normally--the firing of individuals, the tossing of  individuals who aren't willing to take a loyalty test. Their loyalty is  to the Constitution, not to the President.

So I think it says a tremendous amount about how far we are into the  authoritarian state. This is kind of standard operating procedure for  an authoritarian. You mentioned kind of creeping authoritarianism. I  would say we are on full-stream authoritarianism because so much is  happening in terms of the firing of employees who are failing the  loyalty test; the decimating of programs at the whim of the President,  rather than by the laws being passed here; ignoring laws that apply to  the Executive, like the fact that you can't fire inspectors general  unless it is for cause and 30 days.

The attack on due process and free speech and free press, the  weaponization, in general, of the Justice Department--which is kind of  a facet of it--and then the effort to get court decisions that enable  the President to deploy the military in the streets, when there is no  insurrection, no rebellion, and no invasion.

And this last piece, I think, is extraordinarily dangerous, not yet  an issue that has come to your home in Virginia, but it has come to  Southern California and to DC and to Portland, OR, and to Chicago, IL.  And there will be others because the whole intent is to have the court  decisions resolved that provide the precedent for deploying troops when  and how the President wants, according to his definition of what a  rebellion is or an insurrection is, as opposed to the realities. So  there are no checks on that use of military.

These are all so many things happening all at once. Remember, we are  simply 9 months into this administration. Wow. I mean, it is  breathtaking. You had to have--the team had to have a careful plan,  ready to roll, things that were going to be done every day. And that is  why they had Project 2025. That is why they have Russ Vought at the  head of OMB, being the engineer of that Trumpian trainer.

And we are in big trouble, so we are ringing the alarm bells. You are  ringing the alarm bells. The people--they are 7 million strong on the  weekend--were ringing the alarm bells in the biggest demonstration in  U.S. history in a single day, but that is so important right now if we  are going to save our Republic.

And thank you for being a core part of the rescue team.

I yield for a possible additional question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes, I will yield for another question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Well, thank you for the question. I thought when you  were going to hand me this I was going to have a Rorschach test or  something of that nature. But I knew within seconds what this was, as  soon as I realized it was machinery and not parts of a bridge. But this  is the demolition at the White House to prepare for some $300 million  ballroom. At least that is what I am nominating as my answer, and I  would yield to you a question if you would like to follow up.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will indeed allow a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. You are asking such a cerebral and philosophical  question here as I am in the 20-whatever hour of the day.

But here we have evidence of the President tearing down a symbol of  our Republic and building a symbol that is really a symbol about  authoritarian power, about a government that serves the rich.

Just the fact that we are spending money on a $300 million ballroom-- which I can't even imagine how it cost that much--when at the same  time, the President will not come as requested by the minority leader  in the House and minority leader in the Senate and sit down and work on  it. I am sure they are willing to go to him, sit down, and work on the  fact that we are facing 20 million people who are going to have their  healthcare costs doubled. But instead of addressing that, the President  is tearing down part of the symbol of our Republic, a President, and  building a symbol of a King.

I thank my colleague from Oregon for this important conversation and  for your stamina and patriotism.

Mr. MERKLEY. My stamina is getting a little shaky. I see my colleague  from California standing behind me. I will get out of the way. I ask if  you would care to ask a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Well, I so appreciate the question from my colleague  from California.

I must say this is a pretty comprehensive list you put forward, and I  was checking them off in the order of issues that I have been raising  over the many hours through the night last night, but I think the one  that I didn't have that I actually agree with very much is your final  point of the firehose of falsehoods, because we are just adrift in a  sea of misinformation and disinformation. Then added into that toxic  brew is a whole lot of just basic propaganda in a place it doesn't  belong.

When you go out to the Portland airport, you will not hear the tape  that Noem wants played. She wanted it played in airports all around the  country, and a group of airports, led first by Portland, OR, said: No.  It is breaking the law. It is breaking the Hatch Act; it is breaking  the Anti-Lobbying Act; and it is breaking some other act on the list.

In a situation where the administration does not care what the law  says, the philosophy is this: We are the unitary executive. We are in  charge, and we can do whatever the hell we want--a ``take us to court  if you don't like it'' attitude. Then we see the deliberate crushing of  rights, and we see the deliberate grabbing of the power of the purse  from Congress.

The difference between an authoritarian government--and there are  many differences, but one way to describe the difference between an  authoritarian government and a democracy is, in a democracy, the  representatives of the people decide what the programs are, how they  will be funded, and how they will be run. In an authoritarian  government, all of those powers--``What are the programs? How much  money will we put into them? How will they be run?''--transition to the  executive, the all-powerful executive.

So every time we hear Trump or his Cabinet members saying, ``I am  canceling that grant'' or ``I am defunding that program because it  doesn't act consistent with the priorities of this administration,''  that is an authoritarian statement, and we are deep into this  authoritarian crisis.

The poster behind me says:

Ring the alarm bells.

I thank you for helping to ring these alarm bells in a very cogent  and extensive way.

I thank the 7 million people who went out and protested on Saturday  for ringing the alarm bells because what we know is that, if we do not  confront tyranny in its first year and if we do not find a way to have  a strong rebuttal in the next election, then it becomes entrenched, and  it is our responsibility--our oath to the Constitution--to not let that  happen.

Thank you.

I notice we have a colleague from Vermont on the floor, if the  colleague might be interested in asking a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I would yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Well, thank you for that question. I am on the verge of  falling over.

Mr. WELCH: And the staff.

Mr. MERKLEY: But I have got an hour more before we are going to wrap  up this effort.

I am so pleased that so many have been able to come from the caucus  and help ring the alarm bells, because this is the most perilous moment  for our Republic since the Civil War, and never did I expect it to be  in my time. I thought, yes, we argue over housing policy, and how can  we best have a decent home in a decent community? Yes, we argue over  education policy, and how can there be a pathway for every child to  have a full and productive life? All of these are foundations.

Mr. MERKLEY. Oh, another question. I would yield for another  question. Yes, I would.

Mr. MERKLEY. Make it a long one.

Mr. MERKLEY. Well, I appreciate the question from my colleague from  Vermont.

I must say soybeans have come up several times today, as has  Argentina, and this is so troubling.

Now, I will tell you, when I met with my Farm Bureau, everyone has a  little bit of queasiness even if tariffs haven't touched them yet, but  the tariffs are changing all the time. So how might it suddenly affect  the market if another tariff change is inputted and so forth?

Everyone in the agricultural world is terrified that, if they lose  their market, even temporarily, those relationships deteriorate. When  new relationships are forged, it is hard to get people back. If you  have let people down once, then what happens next?

So this is the situation--this double deal, I guess I will call it,  with Argentina--with our, well, having a trade war with China. So China  doesn't buy a single thing. You said not a single bushel, and I have  heard, yep, nothing, nada.

Senator Murray of Washington was down here, saying: We have got all  of these beans that normally travel through Washington State before  they get exported. Where the hell are they going to be stored?

I don't know, but what I do know is that a lot of folks may not have  a place to store them. I look forward to learning more about what is  going to happen to this massive crop that there is no customer for  because China went to Argentina.

Then you mentioned a second part of the Argentina deal to which the  President says: Do you know what? I want to bail out this far-right  government down there because they are in trouble--and we don't want to  let a far-right government be in trouble--with $20 billion and maybe  $40 billion.

Think of how much money that is. That is $100 for every single person  in the United States of America. You know, if I went door-to-door in  Oregon and personally asked everybody, ``Would you like to give $100 to  Argentina?'' do you know how many takers I would have?

Mr. MERKLEY. I think I would get zero takers.

By the way, where is the legislation that gives the President the  power to give $20 billion or $40 billion to Argentina?

I haven't looked it up yet. I am going to look it up, but I think it  is exactly a feature of an authoritarian government that he wants to  self-help a fellow authoritarian government but with a twist. The twist  is that, apparently, a group of well-placed colleagues--maybe friends  of the Treasury Secretary, I believe, that I may have read, but I won't  say that definitively--bought up some of the debt in Argentina. They  bought it at a discount. That is my understanding.

Again, I have not double-checked this. So I am saying it with some  caution.

But what happens when you do that, and then there is a bailout, and  you get face value?

Let's say you pay 25 cents on the dollar. When you get face value  after a bailout and you make a 400-percent return, well, that is great  for the richest of whoever they are in America whom Trump wants to help  out.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield, but it has to be in the form of a  question. I will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Well, thank you for that question.

I must say it reminds me of a townhall because, every now and then, I  realize I am way over my head in what I actually know to be the facts.  So I am going to stop before I dig a bigger hole because I have not  personally researched it or read up on it.

I have heard a variety of comments, almost in passing, from  colleagues who were so disturbed about this arrangement, disturbed  about what is going to happen to soybeans, disturbed that China is  buying them from Argentina, disturbed that we are sending a bailout to  Argentina, and disturbed that they have heard that a lot of that money  may come back to some very rich people in the United States of America.  But I do not know the details, and I am going to leave it as a bit of a  conjecture, and when we talk soon, I will have the answers.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you.

I notice my colleague from Illinois has returned to the floor. If he  would like to, I would be happy to entertain a question, should he have  one.

Mr. MERKLEY. I am going to interrupt you for just a moment because  the protocol team is not sure whether you asked me if I would yield for  a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield for a question. Thank you.

Mr. MERKLEY. I thank the Senator of Illinois for the question.

As you are telling this story, I was thinking about a story from  Oregon in which a woman who has been there for a long time--she has  legal status in the United States. Her mother visits from  Honduras, and her sister lives in Canada.

There is a park on the border between Washington State and Canada  where people can go into the park and meet. They have to leave by the  same entry they came in.

They have done this before, and so her mother gets to be with her,  and then with her sister, the three of them and four children--7-year- old triplets and a 9-year-old, I believe. And the children are U.S.  citizens. So they do what they have done before: They go up to meet the  Canadian sister in this park. While they are hugging, she gets  arrested. Arrested why? For smuggling her sister into the United  States. But they are in this park that is set up for that purpose.

She is still being held. The children were released, and they are  with a family friend. And the grandmother was released, the mother's  mother, but the mother, Jackie--mother of the four American children-- is still being held. We keep protesting, writing, calling, and she is  still being held.

The case against her was dropped. Why? Because you can't arrest  somebody for hugging in a park set up for that purpose. This is my  understanding of the case.

But think about how that story says everyone is at risk all the time.  Everyone is at risk. So there is fear and trepidation.

Individuals who have other documentation are afraid that they may  make a move that may lead to some extended family member or someone  else who has documentation being arrested, just like this woman had  documentation. So it is a regime of fear.

The argument Trump made was that when someone is here and  undocumented and they do a violent act, they are going to be deported.  I don't think many Americans would argue with that. But we should also  recognize that our immigrants commit violent acts at a lower rate than  native-born Americans. Portraying immigrants with this false story of  being criminals, rapists, murderers, and so forth, is simply, well, to  quote a district judge on a different topic, ``untethered to the  facts.''

We are in a deeply disturbing period where more children are being  separated, and communities are being terrorized.

I think how you have brought forward time and time again that we  needed to resolve the status for Dreamers in a more solid way, put  bills forth, and we fell short how many times? Six times? I am not  sure.

Mr. MERKLEY. Or more. And this body can't even come together and  address children brought here through no fault of their own, who know  no other country, who speak no other language, who grew up here and are  productive citizens. Many of them, when we first started--the first I  was aware of it so long ago--they might have been little kids. Now they  may be out of high school, out of college, fully employed in the  community, and still we haven't resolved their status so they can kind  of feel like fully productive members of our community.

Mr. MERKLEY. I would yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you, Senator. I not only agree, but I so admire  what you accomplished. It is so frustrating. Why can't we accomplish  that again?

I know one of our Members worked hard with my colleague across the  aisle to do a bill that may have been a slimmer version, and President  Trump--then-Candidate Trump--said don't take that immigration bill  forward last year because he wanted to keep this as an election issue.

If people want to keep chaos rather than to solve problems, how are  we to address a better path forward for our Nation, a more productive  path?

So I hope what you accomplished can be reinvented. I am not sure that  I have any confidence that it is possible. It may be harder now than it  was then, but let's try. And you have my full backing in that effort.

Mr. MERKLEY. And I will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I must say, Senator, I don't think there is an  individual we have in the Senate who is not the descendent of  immigrants. So shouldn't we all be able to identify with our family  stories and bring those to bear to solve this challenge and actually  restore a framework?

Just let me take one piece of this. The process for being able to  have an asylum hearing has a backlog of about 6 years. That is a piece  that we can find a rational way to address. The Dreamers--we can find a  rational path to bring the Dreamers fully into our society, as you have  laid out in the past. We can proceed to, I think, find a deal on border  security, what we pay. But there are many pieces that will never get  solved unless people are sitting down, like you did with your Gang of  8, bringing people together, and saying: Let's iron this out. So that  is my hope and prayer.

Mr. MERKLEY. I was not aware of that, no, and that is insanity.

Mr. MERKLEY. I yield in the nature of a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Absolutely.

Mr. MERKLEY. I yield for the question.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes. I think you asked me to recount the story. The  story involved the fact that I read a speech by Attorney General  Sessions. Attorney General Sessions was delivering this speech at I  think it was called Freedom Park in Southern California, on the border.  As I read the speech, I said out loud to people around me: It sounds  like he is planning to separate children deliberately from their  parents in order to have that trauma be a deterrent for people coming.

I said: There is no way any American administration--not blue, not  red--would ever deliberately harm children as a political policy  strategy.

A member of my team said: There is one way to find out. Go down to  the border.

I checked, and I had that weekend free, so I went down to the border.  I go into this warehouse, and in this warehouse, there are all these  basically what we would call in Oregon cyclone fence cages, wired  cages.

I stopped in front of one of them, and it had a group of boys, lined  up from the smallest to the tallest. The smallest was just knee high to  the grasshopper, as we would say, just a little tyke, maybe 4 years  old.

I see these kids looking out across the warehouse because in other  cages inside that warehouse were groups of women or men. My impression  was they were looking to see, where did my mother go? where did my  father go? where is my sister?

I said to the Customs and Border Protection agent: Were these  children separated from their parents?

He said: Yes.

I said: Where do you do that?

He said: We bring the family in through that door--the door was maybe  25 feet away--and we say: Children, come with me. Parents go with that  person. And, boom, they are separated, and they stayed separated.

What happened as that unfolded is the administration--this is under  Trump 1--said they were keeping careful records of the children to be  able to have a reunion with their parents, but they were not.

So we ended up with extraordinary efforts, including tons of  volunteer lawyers and researchers, trying to get children back unified  with their parents. A few hundred, I believe, were never reconnected to  their parents. They could never be found. Whether they returned to a  small village in a faraway country, I don't know, but it was profoundly  disturbing.

I went outside, and the press had a little huddle. They said: What do  you see? I said: Children being separated from their parents.

Of course, the story immediately blew up. And then I went up the  road. I heard that there were hundreds of boys being held in a former  Walmart. And my team member is like: Well, we asked, but we didn't get  permission to get in.

I said: Well, let's go knock on the door.

And so we go up. And he is doing a live feed--what is that called--on  one of those social media--live Facebook feeds. I go up and I knock,  and I say, yes, who I am, and we were in the area, and we heard there  were a lot of operations here. Can you give us a tour? Can you have the  executive director come out?

And they got back to me. And by the way, I was--since I was doing a  live feed, I said: Call me on my phone number. My phone number went out  to the entire world at that moment. And so I enjoyed having hundreds or  thousands of people, seemed like, called for weeks about this.

But they didn't come out. What they did is they called the police to  have me arrested. And the police declined to arrest me but did escort  me and my staff member off campus. They did not want there to be a  tour.

And I had been told there might be--I think it was--1,000 boys, and  there were some almost 1,500 boys in this. And because of the publicity  of that live feed, the next week, the administration had to open it up  to the press. And the week after that, I went back and took some  legislators and saw it.

But this vision of deliberately harming children in order to deter  immigration, that is a horrific thing. And it did stop. The outcry was  massive. It did stop, thank God. But all these other now circumstances  are--people are being hurt in all kinds of ways right now.

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes, I will yield for another question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I had heard a reference to some kind of a payment  program being tested, but I didn't know the details.

Mr. MERKLEY. Thank you very much, to my colleague from Illinois.  Thank you for being a champion.

And I noticed that we have a Senator from Washington State? No, we do  not.

We do have a Senator from Oregon who has arrived. Would the Senator  from Oregon like to ask a question?

Mr. MERKLEY. Yes. Thank you for the protocol. Thank you for asking  me. And, yes, I would yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I thank my colleague. As long as that discussion is not  taking place in the hours that I might be sleeping tonight, absolutely.

And I do feel like this is so fundamental to our Nation. That is why  everyone who has come down to the floor, everyone here who has asked  questions today and made solid insights as they prepared their  question, we are collectively ringing the alarm bells. We are ringing  the alarm bells because authoritarianism is not down the road or around  the corner or next month or next year; it is here right now.

And it has been so astounding to hear all of the mentions that have  been highlighted by individual Senators about how this tyranny is  taking shape. And in every possible way around the world where  authoritarians have developed a strategy, they are all  being done here. It is like, all of them: Rig the next election. Yes.  And then proceed to pressure the newspapers. Yes. And pressure the  broadcasters on what they can put out. Yes. And weaponize the Justice  Department. They are doing it.

And the list goes on and on.

And for us in Oregon, certainly, the one that is on everyone's mind  is striving to have a pathway to legally send in the military when  there is no rebellion, no insurrection, and no invasion. And that one  terrifies me.

The administration is hell-bent on getting a judicial thumbs-up, a  green light, to be able to move troops where they want in this country  when none of those things are happening.

Mr. MERKLEY. I am checking to see if any more colleagues would like  to ask a question.

Would the Senator from Michigan like to ask a question?

Mr. MERKLEY. Before you go any further, can you just say these  magical words: Would you yield for a question? And I will say that I  will yield for a question.

Mr. MERKLEY. I will yield for a question, yes.

Mr. MERKLEY. I so appreciate the point that my colleague from  Michigan has been making. And if we think about the fundamental  difference between a democracy and an authoritarian government, one way  of describing that difference is that in a democracy, elected  representatives of the people, like folks who are gathered here right  now, work together, bringing their diverse life experiences, their  knowledge of their individual States, and together find a strategy that  will address their collective challenges so that each and every part of  the country is represented and things are addressed that are important  to every part.

That design of the programs and how they will operate and how they  will fund happen in a democracy, in a Chamber like this.

In an authoritarian President--an authoritarian system--it is all  happening on the Executive side. The Executive is saying: Here are the  programs that are going to be funded; here are my priorities and what I  will do. Here are the grants I will cancel and the ones that I will  redirect. Here is the way we will run these programs.

And that is exactly what the Trump administration is trying to do.  They are trying to move the responsibility we have under the  Constitution to design programs, decide how much they should be funded,  resolve questions about how they will operate, and move that  responsibility over to the Executive.

And the head of the Office of Management and Budget, he was very  upfront about it. He said: I believe in a unitary Executive, where all  power rests with the President. And that means the President can cancel  programs at will.

And I was shocked when I heard him say this. This is before we had  the hearing in the Budget Committee, probably about the same time you  were holding a hearing on Russell Vought.

And I said: You know, that has already been adjudicated by the  Supreme Court. There was an effort in 1996 to do a line-item veto and  allocate to the President the ability to say ``these programs go  forward, these programs fail,'' and the Supreme Court said: Hell no;  you can't do that. The Constitution assigns the responsibility to the  legislature to decide what gets funded, and the Executive has to  implement that plan.

And when the question of impoundments came up at an earlier date,  where in a different strategy Nixon said: Hey, I think I will just not  forward the funding; I will impound it so certain programs won't be  funded--again, that had gone to the Supreme Court.

And again the Supreme Court said no. But Mr. Vought sat in my office,  and he said: Well, I believe we will get this issue through the Supreme  Court and the Supreme Court will back the unitary Executive, strengthen  the Executive powers of this country.

I just shook my head. I am like, that can't possibly happen. But what  happened just a short time ago? A piece of this went to the Court and  in their shadow docket. The question was, Could the administration  slow-walk funding to the last 45 days of the fiscal year and then bring  over a request for us to undo that funding--it is called a rescission-- and then, because it was a 40-day, 5-day grace period, pause, the  fiscal year expires and the funding authorization goes proof, and  suddenly the President has killed the program. And the Court, in their  preliminary response, said: Yeah, we think you can do that.

So Russell Vought certainly seems to have a better grip on where the  Supreme Court is.

But I just feel like we have to do everything we can, therefore,  legislatively to stop that. Our spending bills need to say that if we  have a bipartisan spending bill, that decision to undo that program can  only be done by a bipartisan bill in the future, which is the way we do  rescissions now.

We have money that is left over from a program or this program, and  we say that money can be brought back in, that it is not needed, but we  do it in a bipartisan manner, not in a manner that gives the power of  the purse to the President of the United States.

This is a collective effort that all of our Republican and Democratic  colleagues should be involved in. I mean, collectively, we need to be  defending our role in the Constitution. And this is central to the  separation between authoritarian power and a democracy.

I have been on the Senate floor to ring the alarm bells for a long  time--since somewhere around 6:25 yesterday--and I want to thank the  people who have been here with me the whole time, people who made this  happen.

My Team Merkley staff, and I see a few of them--quite a few of them  are here. I appreciate the support.

I thank the Capitol Police who had to stay through the night and the  Democratic and Republican floor staff who had to stay and go forward  without being, if you will, the center of attention. They had to make  sure everything went right, and they did.

The Senate pages who have come and gone through the night--but I  think it is cool that you were here. Every now and then, when I was a  little lonely, I would look over, and I would see some heads peeking  around the corner over on this side and this side. That was great.

The page program is extraordinary, and I hope all of you will think  about how you find a path in life to build a better world. There is no  better mission for a soul on this planet than to find a way to build a  better world--a million ways to do it.

The Senate Doorkeepers, thank you. I so appreciate you all.

Senate Parliamentarians, oh my goodness. I don't know what kind of  flowers I can possibly bring, but I will be in your debt for a long  time. Thank you.

The Presiding Officers. So many of my colleagues from across the  aisle had to come. And I know how hard it is to sit in that chair. I  did my 100 hours in that chair, plus quite a few. And I know it is  awfully hard to be there and not even be able to respond when maybe  someone disagrees profoundly. Yet you are here making it possible that  I could carry this conversation, ringing the alarm bells about  authoritarianism. It couldn't have been done if you all hadn't come and  held the floor, so thank you.

All of you colleagues who came to give a little dissertation and ask  a question and sometimes a longer dissertation, thank you. Thank you. I  appreciate that so much.

We are in the most perilous moment, the biggest threat to our  Republic since the Civil War. President Trump is shredding our  Constitution. Our Nation has spent 250 years striving toward a vision  of equal justice. Of course, we had our Declaration of Independence. It  took a few years to get our Constitution that we now have in place-- 1787. But we have been striving toward this vision in which everyone is  empowered in this country.

I always think about how the foundation of the law is carved into the  facade above the Supreme Court pillars, and it says ``Equal Justice  Under Law.''

You know, the very first political act I took was when I was a junior  in high school and I read an article in the evening paper--back when  there was often a business paper in the morning and a labor paper in  the evening--in the Oregon Journal. The article said that Vice  President Agnew had been convicted of bribery, convicted of taking  $100,000, the article said, and he had been given a fine of $10,000.

I was like, what? For the rich and powerful, they get to keep 90  percent of their proceeds? So I fired off a letter to the Oregon  Journal and said: This is not right in a nation that values equal  justice under law. And they printed it. They are long out of business.  I would like to get a copy of that. Long out of business.

But the vision Trump is putting forward is unequal injustice. It is a  huge assault on the foundation for our Nation. What we have is a nation  in which the Founders--and many of you spoke so eloquently to this--a  nation in which the Founders said: We do not want to have a King. We  want to have government that flows up from the people, not down from a  monarch.

So they put together their best ideas. They wrestled with it at the  Constitutional Convention. They went through many versions of what the  Senate would look like and even what our terms would look like--at one  point, 12 years; at one point, lifetime. Right now, I wish it was a  little less than 6 years myself.

But the challenge we have is that that vision of a separation of  powers, of checks and balances, is being steadily destroyed by  President Trump.

In the book that I was using as kind of a framework for discussing  these issues, it says that most people even today think it is still  that republics die with men wielding guns. It is essential that we  understand that is not the way most republics die today. Most republics  die because someone is elected who starts working systematically to  reduce those checks and balances. Then perhaps they are aided by a  rubberstamp Congress, and perhaps they are aided by a Supreme Court  that vests more power in the Executive's key decisions, and, of course,  it takes that aggressive authoritarian personality.

We have all three. We are fully in the authoritative moment right  now. The President believes that he is the King of this country and  that he can control everything, regardless of what the law says or what  we send him. We have to collectively--and it should be a bipartisan  effort--collectively say: Hell no.

We took an oath to the Constitution, to the division of government by  and for the people, not government by and for the powerful. And we are  going to keep fighting to restore that vision.

Today, so many of you highlighted so many pieces of what is going  wrong in our country in terms of erosion--a President who wants to tell  universities what they can teach and is holding research grants over  their heads; a President who wants to tell law firms who they can give  pro bono help to and has forced them to--various firms--chuck up a  billion dollars to do pro bono work on the places and organizations  that Trump wants them to spend it on; a President who is using every  tool available to try to get court decisions that will allow him to use  both the National Guard and the troops to be able to go where in the  country he wants them domestically even if there is no insurrection, no  rebellion, and no invasion; a President who is weaponizing the  judiciary to go after person after person coming off his enemies list.  Whoever it might be that is next--one of us may be next. One of our  colleagues has certainly been publicized by Trump as being on Trump's  enemies list. And this is just not to be allowed in government by and  for the people.

There is the crushing of due process. And I appreciate the comments  of my colleague from Illinois about due process and all of the  challenges regarding immigration and due process. Let's find a way to  finally pass an immigration bill after coming so close so many times.

Senator Durbin, I know you are retiring, but let's get the  immigration fix done before you leave us, with all of your expertise.  The group of 8 that you put together before did incredibly fabulous  work, and this is way past due, that we have that foundation of law  with many pieces of improvements for justice.

We saw on day one of this administration Trump down there in the  Rotunda with the billionaires standing behind him, and from that  moment, it was apparent that is what his government was about--by and  for the wealthy and the powerful.

If we had any doubts, then it was resolved when he put forward his  version of the bill, which he called the Big Beautiful Bill and we  often called--many of us--the ``Big Ugly Betrayal.''

Only an authoritarian President who believes that the people answer  to him rather than him being accountable to the people would come up  with a strategy of decimating the healthcare through the ACA to fund  tax breaks for billionaires.

Only an authoritarian President would say: Let's demolish Medicaid  and, between Medicaid and ACA, have 15 million people lose their  healthcare--235,000 projected in my State.

Only an authoritarian would say ``Let's cut child nutrition to fund  even more tax breaks for billionaires'' and then, of course, on top of  all that, put forward a plan that runs up $30 trillion in additional  debt over 30 years--probably the most fiscally irresponsible bill ever  to pass through this Chamber. That $30 trillion of additional debt will  so compromise our efforts to take on the foundations for ordinary  families--for healthcare, for housing, for education, for good-paying  jobs--the four foundations that give families a chance to stand on  their feet and thrive.

So we all have taken an oath to the Constitution, so let's all work  together in every possible way to ring the alarm bells because it is a  fact that if we do not ring the alarm bells, well, the longer you are  in an authoritarian state, it becomes more and more entrenched. So we  have to fight it in every possible way.

I am so proud of the 7 million Americans who took to the street in  every one of our States at those 2,700 different locations all across  the country to say ``No Kings.'' They were ringing the alarm bells.  They were saying that it is absolutely unacceptable to have an  authoritarian government. And that is the largest demonstration in U.S.  history.

For each of those 7 million, they have families, they have friends  who knew that they were doing this, who are becoming educated about the  challenge that we are facing right now.

We have to recognize that the next election is absolutely critical if  we are going to save our Republic because the strategy of an  authoritarian is to rig the elections, and the more time they have, the  more entrenched it becomes.

Already, here is Trump trying to do a national voter registration  file that can be more easily manipulated for the elections next year.  Here is President Trump trying to do massive gerrymandering in a whole  bunch of States in order to offset the balance between Democrats and  Republicans that are representing the House of Representatives. Here is  President Trump saying he will do everything possible to stop the use  of vote-by-mail across the country because--we know why--because vote- by-mail has such integrity. It can't be manipulated on election day  like precincts can.

In precincts, you can move your location. You can put them where  there is no parking. You can understaff them. The machines can break  down. You can send intimidators. You can proceed to put out fake  information about your location. You can put out information that the  election was last week when it is really this coming Tuesday.

You can't do that in vote by mail. And when we have the majority, we  must pass the For the People Freedom to Vote bill and lock down the  integrity of our elections, so we will not worry for a generation about  the people having a fair voice in our government by and for the people.

I am proud to be colleagues with all of you in this effort. Thank you  very much.

(Applause.)