Unanimous Consent Request


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696499/unanimous-consent-request


Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, President Trump has developed a new MAHA  strategy. Instead of Make America Healthy Again, his new strategy is  ``Make America Hungry Agenda.'' He is weaponizing food against  America's most vulnerable families. In my State of Oregon, that means  cutting off food to 757,000 people, including 210,000 children and  130,000 seniors.

Now, when you think about these numbers, they are hard to envision,  but Oregon is roughly 300 miles from the northern border to the  southern border. I-5 runs the entire length of the State. So if all of  those individuals were lined up on the highway, they would be just 2  feet apart for 300 miles, and every third person, approximately, would  be a child. That is the level of impact we are talking about.

You know, when children go without food, the impact is pretty  significant. There is the impact on their physical development. There  is the impact on their mental development. And, of course, if you are  hungry, you can't learn a damn thing in school--so three ways of really  hurting America's children, millions of American children.

Congress together, Democrats and Republicans, said this should never  happen. The House and the Senate together said this should never  happen. So together we created two tools. The first tool is the SNAP  contingency fund meant to ensure that families can keep putting food on  the table. The second tool is interchange authority that allows the  Secretary of Agriculture to use tariff funds to supplement the  contingency fund.

Back in September, USDA's--the U.S. Department of Agriculture-- website noted that it planned to use the contingency funds in order to  make sure that SNAP was delivered in November, but then in October,  last month, it deleted that language, and the President said: My hands  are tied. America's most vulnerable families must go hungry.

Well, now we know that the administration certainly was well aware of  the contingency fund because it was on their website, and we know that  the Department of Agriculture is well aware of its ability to use the  interchange to transfer funds from a program that would enable it to  provide the full SNAP benefits in the month of November. In fact, it  just used this interchange recently in both October and November for  the WIC Program.

Right now, section 32 funds--there is $23 billion in there. So just  one-fifth of those funds would enable the full November SNAP funds to  be distributed.

Last week, I saw a speech by   Mike Johnson, the Speaker of the  House, on television, and he was saying that Republicans are not going  to provide SNAP funds because it would reduce pressure on Democrats to  reopen the government. In other words, the Speaker of the House was  saying that America's families, the most vulnerable families--the  health and welfare of children, seniors, the most vulnerable adults-- that they are just bargaining chips.

Well, let me tell you, our vulnerable families are not bargaining  chips. Basic food for children is not a bargaining chip. So we are here  to say: Hell no. It is not acceptable to use children and the most  vulnerable as bargaining chips.

That is why 25 States and the District of Columbia filed a suit  against the U.S. Department of Agriculture to say that it is illegal to  stop funding SNAP. On Friday of last week, two judges agreed in two  different jurisdictions--in Massachusetts and in Rhode Island--and they  said to the Trump administration: You must proceed to fund SNAP. The  contingency fund is there for that purpose, and you have other funds to  enable, through the interchange, to provide the full amount in  November.

Both are needed, because there is about $4.65 billion, we are told,  left in the contingency fund, but SNAP, in a single month, can be $8 to  $9 billion. So that second tool is essential. And, again, there is $23  billion in there waiting to be used. So there is absolutely no reason  not to fund the full SNAP benefits for the month of November.

But then the administration responded to the court, and they said: We  are not going to do it. We will use the contingency funds, but we are  not going to use the interchange authority.  We cannot fund--we choose not to fund the full benefits for November.

Well, this results in two problems. The first is that, instead of  about $6 a day--which is the standard, average SNAP benefit--it will be  about $3 a day. Well, $3 a day isn't very much to feed any member of a  family. But there is a second problem that is even worse, and this  problem is that the U.S. Department of Agriculture said in a court  document filed today--and I have it right here.

Brooke

Rollins, in her official capacity as Secretary of the United States              Department of Agriculture, et al., Defendants.]                         (No. 25-cv-00569-JJM-AEM)                 SUPPLEMENTARY DECLARATION OF PATRICK A. PENN

1. I am the Deputy Under Secretary of the Food, Nutrition,       and Consumer Services (FNCS) at the United States Department       of Agriculture (USDA). As part of my responsibilities, I       oversee the FNCS programs including the Supplemental       Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which is administered by       the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) within FNCS. The       statements made herein, which supplement my October 29, 2025,       declaration made in Commonwealth of Massachusetts, et al. v.       USDA, 1:25-cv-13165 (Penn Decl. Doc. No. 14-2), are based on       my personal knowledge and information made available to me in       the course of carrying out my official duties and       responsibilities.

Use of SNAP Contingency Fund for Reduced November Benefits

2. At the beginning of fiscal year 2026, FNS had $6 billion       in SNAP contingency funds. In October 2025, FNS used $450       million from the contingency fund for SNAP State agencies'       administrative expenses (SAE) and an additional $300 million       for the Nutrition Assistance Program (NAP) block grants for       Puerto Rico and American Samoa.

3. Per orders issued by the United States District Courts       for the Districts of Massachusetts and Rhode Island, FNS       intends to deplete SNAP contingency funds completely and       provide reduced SNAP benefits for November 2025.

4. Even in the absence of an appropriation, states must by       law continue to accept applications and conduct eligibility       determinations. 7 C.F.R. 271.7(e)(1). States also must incur       necessary expenses to re-calculate and distribute benefits.       Accordingly, states continue to incur SAE necessary to       operate SNAP. For November, FNS will obligate $450 million       from the contingency fund for SAE, and an additional $150       million for NAP in Puerto Rico and American Samoa (50% of the       value of one month of each block grant).

5. The above will leave a total of $4.65 billion in the       contingency fund for November SNAP benefits that will all be       obligated to cover 50% of eligible households' current       allotments.

6. This means that no funds will remain for new SNAP       applicants certified in November, disaster assistance, or as       a cushion against the potential catastrophic consequences of       shutting down SNAP entirely. See Penn Decl. Doc. No. 14-2        21.    Consideration of Diverting Section 32 Child Nutrition Funds or Other                               Funds to SNAP

7. In addition to routing the remaining SNAP contingency       funds to partial November 2025 SNAP benefits, USDA has       carefully considered tapping Section 32 funds that, pursuant       to statute, were transferred to FNS to be used for Child       Nutrition Programs. USDA would need at least $4 billion from       those Child Nutrition funds to provide full SNAP benefits       instead of reduced benefits for the month of November.

8. USDA contemplated various factors including the       statutory mandate evidencing clear Congressional intent that       Section 32 funds transferred to FNS be used for Child       Nutrition Programs (see 7 U.S.C. 612c-6(b)(1)), which are a       group of programs that are distinct from SNAP in terms of       legal authority, appropriations accounts, and operations. In       addition, USDA considered the impact a transfer of the       magnitude necessary to support SNAP would have on Child       Nutrition Programs, the likelihood (or lack thereof) of       Congress's ability to appropriate additional billions of       dollars for Child Nutrition Programs for FY26 to make up the       funding shortfall such an additional transfer would create,       and the Courts' orders.

9. Ultimately, USDA has determined that Section 32 Child       Nutrition Program funds must remain available to protect full       operation of Child Nutrition Programs throughout the fiscal       year, instead of being used for SNAP benefits. Section 32       Child Nutrition Program funds are not a contingency fund for       SNAP. Using billions of dollars from Child Nutrition for SNAP       would leave an unprecedented gap in Child Nutrition funding       that Congress has never had to fill with annual       appropriations, and USDA cannot predict what Congress will do       under these circumstances.

10. The Child Nutrition Programs, which include the       National School Lunch and Breakfast Programs, Summer Food       Service Program, and Summer EBT (SUN Bucks), provide       critical, nutritionally-balanced meals and food assistance       benefits to millions of children every day. Through the       National School Lunch Program alone, approximately 29 million       children per day receive nutritionally balanced, low-cost or       no-cost lunches.

11. Funding for Child Nutrition Programs derives primarily       from two sources--annual appropriations and funds transferred       from the Section 32 account, the latter of which constitutes       the bulk of Child Nutrition Programs funding. See 7 U.S.C.       612c-6(b)(1).

12. Section 32 refers to a mandatory appropriation (7       U.S.C. 612c) that receives 30 percent of customs receipts on       all imports from the prior calendar year. A large portion of       those funds go to Child Nutrition Programs, See Penn Decl.       Doc. No. 14-2  30. To make them available for SNAP, USDA       would need to execute its discretionary authority under 7       U.S.C. 2257. Much of the public discussion of Section 32       misunderstands the funding; Congress has designated uses for       Section 32 funds that do not include SNAP, and Congress       purposefully avoided keeping any remainder and/or unallocated       Section 32 funds for general contingency purposes.

13. While Section 32 funds are essential to Child Nutrition       Programs, they do not fully fund Child Nutrition Programs.       Rather, Congress must fund the remainder through annual       appropriations.

14. As an example of the dual funding streams for Child       Nutrition Programs, in FY24, the total cost of Child       Nutrition Programs was approximately $33 billion. See       Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024, Pub. L. 118-42, 138       Stat. 25, 92 (Mar. 9, 2024). Roughly $28.8 billion came from       Section 32 funds and $4.5 billion came from annual       appropriations. For FY25, the total cost of Child Nutrition       Programs was approximately $32.4 billion, with $22.4       billion coming from Section 32 funds and $10 billion       coming from annual appropriations.

15. For FY26, there is $25.2 billion in Section 32 funds       derived from customs receipts, and approximately $23 billion       was transferred to FNS for the Child Nutrition Programs. See       7 U.S.C.612c-6(b)(1). Based on the FY26 USDA budget request,       this would mean Congress must still appropriate at least       $13.2 billion for Child Nutrition Programs in FY26 for a       total of $36.27 billion.

16. However, using USDA's discretionary authority at 7       U.S.C. 2257 to transfer such a significant portion of Child       Nutrition funds to ``top off'' SNAP contingency funds and       issue full November SNAP allotments would leave Child       Nutrition Programs, which feed no fewer than 29 million       children, with an unprecedented and significant shortfall.

17. Under current law, another infusion of Section 32       tariff funds to Child Nutrition Programs will not occur until       FY27. In other words, the $4 billion removed from Child       Nutrition Programs for one month of SNAP benefits would be a       permanent loss to Child Nutrition Programs for the entirety       of their annual operations in FY26.

18. If Congress were to pass an annual appropriations act       or continuing resolution with usual terms and conditions,       that $4 billion gap would not be filled because Congress       would not replenish the Section 32 portion with annual       appropriations (again, the Section 32 transfer is funded       annually with customs receipts).

19. To make Child Nutrition Programs whole for FY26,       Congress would need to appropriate an additional $4 billion       in new budget authority. In other words, instead of Congress       appropriating the estimated $13.2 billion for Child Nutrition       Programs in FY26, Congress would need to appropriate more       than $17.2 billion for Child Nutrition Programs to continue       funding the Child Nutrition Programs at the level required to       serve all eligible children. The pending continuing       resolution makes no such additional appropriation.

20. While USDA transferred approximately $300 million in       October 2025 to support the Special Supplemental Nutrition       Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), there are key       differences. For example, the magnitude of the amounts ($300       million for WIC in October 2025 versus $4 billion for SNAP)       is a material consideration. While USDA believes there are       sufficient funds in the Child Nutrition Programs to support       WIC during these unprecedented circumstances, the agency does       not believe the same is true for SNAP due to the significant       differences between the amounts at issue.

21. USDA also believes a transfer of Child Nutrition       Program funding to support SNAP would further stray from       Congressional intent. While Congress has developed a       statutory scheme for providing partial SNAP benefits and,       according to the Courts, provided contingency funds at a       level it has deemed sufficient, USDA would ignore those       provisions while also threatening its ability to administer       Child Nutrition Programs if it were to repurpose funds       Congress explicitly intended be used only for Child Nutrition       Programs. A much smaller transfer for WIC does not undermine       performance of the Child Nutrition Programs and raises no       such concerns.

22. Amid this no-win quandary and upon further       consideration following the Courts' orders, USDA has       determined that creating a shortfall in Child Nutrition       Program funds to fund one month of SNAP benefits is an       unacceptable risk, even considering the procedural       difficulties with delivering a partial       November SNAP payment, because shifting $4 billion dollars to       America's SNAP population merely shifts the problem to       millions of America's low income children that receive their       meals at school.

23. The discretionary interchange authority at 7 U.S.C.       2257 allows transfers within the same ``bureau, division, or       office''. SNAP, Child Nutrition Programs, and WIC are in the       same ``bureau, division, or office,'' namely FNCS. As       explained, using Section 32 Child Nutrition Program funds       jeopardizes those crucial programs, and WIC does not have       funds to spare for SNAP. There are no other large blocks of       funding--that is, funding not tied to yearly appropriations--      within FNCS that could be used to supplement SNAP.                  Actions to Implement Reduction in Benefits

24. There are procedural difficulties that States will       likely experience which would affect November SNAP benefits       reaching households in a timely manner and in the correctly       reduced amounts. See Penn Decl. Doc. No. 14-2  22-28.

25. Before States begin making the novel system changes to       implement the benefit reductions, USDA must notify States of       the effective date of the reduction and by what percentage       maximum SNAP allotments are to be reduced. See 7 C.F.R.       Sec. 271.7(d)(1)(i) and (ii).

26. USDA is prepared to issue such notice and revised       issuance tables to State agencies on November 3, 2025. States       will rely on the issuance tables to calculate the benefits       due to each eligible household in their respective States. To       assist State agencies with the massive changes, USDA will       have staff available for technical assistance.

27. As is required by Federal law, after receiving notice       from FNS, State agencies must recode their eligibility       systems to adjust for the reduced maximum allotments. See 7       C.F.R. 271.7(d)(1)(ii); 274.2(a). The resulting reduced       benefits amounts for certified SNAP households will be sent       to States' EBT processors in ``issuance files.'' See Penn       Decl. Doc. No. 14-2  7, 24.

28. Given the variation among State systems, some of which       are decades old, it is unclear how many States will complete       the changes in an automated manner with minimal disruption       versus manual overrides or computations that could lead to       payment errors and significant delays. See Penn Decl. Doc.       No. 14-2  24.

29. For at least some States, USDA's understanding is that       the system changes States must implement to provide the       reduced benefit amounts will take anywhere from a few weeks       to up to several months. See Penn Decl. Doc. No. 14-2  25.

30. In addition to adjusting eligibility and benefit       issuance files to accommodate the reduction, States must       notify all SNAP households of the reduction, as well as       handle any requests for fair hearings from SNAP households       related to the reduction, See 7 C.F.R. 271.7(d)(4) and (f).

31. As noted above, USDA will issue the appropriate notice       and issuance tables today to comply with the Court's order.

I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is       true and correct.                                                   Patrick A. Penn,      Deputy Under Secretary, Food Nutrition and Consumer Services,                            United States Department of Agriculture.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, this court document was filed today by  Patrick Penn. He is the Deputy Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and  Consumer Services at the Department of Agriculture. He says:

USDA's understanding is that the system changes States must       implement to provide the reduced benefit amounts will take       from a few weeks to up to several months.

So here is the situation. The court said: Fund SNAP, and do it right  away.

Today, the administration filed this document saying it will take  weeks to months because they are choosing to fund only half, and  everything has to be reprogrammed in the computer system to make that  happen at the Federal level and for most States. That is not an  acceptable strategy. That is going back to saying people are not going  to get SNAP benefits in November.

You know, this resolution that I have tonight--it is very simple and  expresses a number of thoughts that I have heard from both sides of the  aisle. It is a sense of the Senate that the Trump administration is  obligated to fund SNAP through the use of the contingency fund. And the  courts have made that very clear.

Second, the administration has the authority and the funds to finance  SNAP through the month of November, which we know because they have  both the contingency fund and they have the interchange fund.

Third, exercising this power is extremely important to the health and  wellness of families experiencing hunger, including about 16 million  children, 8 million seniors, 4 million people with disabilities, and  about 1.2 million veterans.

Finally, the administration should exercise its legal authority to  fund SNAP in November.

Pretty simple. Pretty straightforward.

Mr. President, children, seniors, the disabled, the veterans, our  most vulnerable families--they are not bargaining chips. It is simply  wrong to treat them as bargaining chips. It is wrong to adopt a  position in which they will not even get funded in November after the  courts have said: Fund it.

There is enormous damage that is done when children are deprived of  food--to their health, to their mental development, to their physical  development, to their ability to learn in school. And, of course, there  is damage done mentally and physically to all of the adults who are  funded in this program.

Food deprivation is not a correct strategy for any government in the  United States of America.

Trump's ``Make America Hungry Again'' agenda is wrong. It is immoral.  There is just something that really seems like the United States is way  off kilter when we have a President who is absolutely passionately  excited about building a giant, golden ballroom worthy of Louis XIV to  feast, to dine, and to dance with billionaires and power brokers of the  world, while letting--in fact, forcing--America's children and  vulnerable families to go hungry.

I thank Senator Schumer and the other 44 additional cosponsors who  have joined this resolution. I invited all 100 Senators to join it. The  five points are certainly ones I have heard expressed on both sides of  the aisle. Let's all together say: Fund SNAP, not weeks or months from  now but right now, so America's families in every State--regardless of  how they are represented in this Chamber--will benefit.

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I had really hoped that given the five  basic planks of this resolution, which had been expressed on both sides  of the aisle, that we would have something other than arguments that  sound like, I don't know, moldy bread, stale cheese; arguments we heard  time and time again about a shutdown.

But my resolution and my remarks tonight didn't even mention the  shutdown. Why is that? Because the shutdown is irrelevant as to whether  or not the November SNAP payments are made. We have a contingency fund  for that purpose. We created, Democrats and Republicans together,  interchange authority for that purpose. There is more than $23 billion  sitting in that interchange fund, section 32, tariff funded.

The money is there. The legal authority is there. And this resolution  simply says that failing to provide SNAP benefits hurts millions of  people and encourages the President to do what the courts asked him to  do--told him to do last Friday--provide the funds.

But the administration sneered at the court. They said we are going  to adopt a strategy in which the funds may not get to people for weeks  or months because we are going to do it in a fashion that requires a  reprogram of computers across America.

Really?

There is only one desk that has the power to immediately make these  funds available, and that is the desk in the Oval Office. Shouldn't we,  representing the people in each of our States, come together in a  bipartisan fashion to say that depriving people of food--the most  vulnerable families of food--across America is simply wrong, Mr.  President? I am speaking to President Trump. President Trump, you have  the authority, you have the funds, you have the responsibility. Your  ``Make America Hungry Agenda,'' your agenda of starving children and  vulnerable families is wrong. Surely, that is something both Democrats  and Republicans can agree on. Let's keep pressing for the President to  get those funds to America's vulnerable families immediately.