Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 1


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I am pleased to be here with my  colleagues to fight to restore the American Constitution. I am pleased  to be here with Senator Tom Udall, who has led the For the People Act,  and my colleagues Mazie Hirono, Michael Bennet, Amy Klobuchar, and Dick  Durbin--all speaking up to say that we must defend the American  Constitution. 

  At the root of that is our system of electing those who represent us,  and that election system, America, is now deeply corrupted by  gerrymandering, by extensive, persistent voter suppression, and by dark  money. It affects everything that we should achieve for the people of  the United States. 

  If we believe we need to end the price gouging of Americans on  pharmaceutical drugs, we need to end this corruption and pass the For  the People Act. If we believe that every child deserves a quality K-12  education and that our children should be able to go to college without  a mountain of debt, we need to end this corruption and pass the For the  People Act. If we believe that Americans should be living in homes and  apartments, not sleeping on the streets, we need to end this corruption  and pass the For the People Act. If we believe that we have a  responsibility to pass on a habitable and livable planet, free of  pollution, to our children and grandchildren, we need to end this  corruption and pass the For the People Act. 

  This corruption--gerrymandering, voter suppression, dark money--is  all about eviscerating the very soul of our Constitution--the ``we the  people'' vision of our Constitution, that we would not be like European  nations that had government by and for the powerful, but that here in  America representatives of the people would be able to have government  by and for the people. 

  It is Jefferson who said: The real test of whether we succeed is  whether the laws reflect the will of the people. But instead, we see  the laws in this Chamber being constructed solely, uniquely, and,  unfortunately for the most powerful and wealthy among us rather than  the people. 

  Gerrymandering, where voters should choose their politicians but,  instead, politicians choose their voters--that is a deep and powerful  corruption that has extensive impact on the Chamber that is just down  the hall. 

  We have seen what happened in North Carolina, where 47 percent of the  State's popular vote in House races won 23 percent of the seats and,  similarly, in Pennsylvania, in the election before last, and the  Supreme Court threw up its hands and said: We can't do anything about  this, even though the Pennsylvania Supreme Court understood it is so  important to fairness and equal representation and took it on and  solved it. 

  This bill sets up independent commissions across the country so that  the districts for representation are drawn fairly. 

  Then there is voter suppression and intimidation. If you believe in  our Constitution and if you honor it, you believe in voter empowerment,  not voter suppression. 

  We have seen a flood of suppression and intimidation since the  Supreme Court took a hatchet to the Voting Rights Act in the Shelby  County case--voter ID laws, purges of voter rolls,  moving polling locations, cutting back on the hours, cutting back on  the staffing. We have seen it in North Dakota. We have seen it in  Georgia. We have seen it in Ohio, and we have seen it in North  Carolina. We have seen it in Iowa. We have seen it in New Hampshire,  and we saw it in Texas last week. 

  There are strategies to keep the poor from voting, strategies to keep  those Americans of minority communities from voting, strategies to keep  American Native Indians from voting, and strategies to keep college  students from voting. Talk about the intense and deliberate corruption  of America. Voter suppression and intimidation is it. 

  But this bill lays it out--automatic voter registration, national  vote-by-mail, prohibiting the purging of voting rolls, online  registration to enable people to have a smooth, solid road to be able  to participate, rather than roadblocks and land mines to prevent them  from participating. 

  Then we have the dark money. These are the most powerful and richest  Americans trying to drown out the voices of millions of Americans  through unlimited dark and dirty money in our campaigns. Americans know  the system is now rigged. They know it is now corrupted by this money.  We have seen an explosion of this money since 2010 when the Citizens  United decision came down, a 5-to-4 decision from the Supreme Court. It  bloated to more than $4.4 billion. 

  This bill takes that on. It shines a light on all the money so we  know where it is coming from and where it is going, so it can't be  hidden in a shell game from one level, to the next, to the next. It  requires honest ads. It allows small-donor matching grants. This bill,  for the people, says no to corruption and yes to the ``we the people''  Constitution of the United States of America. 

  If we want to act on the fundamentals for families on healthcare, on  housing, on education, on infrastructure, and on living-wage jobs; if  we want to take on the Equality Act so doors are no longer slammed for  the LGBTQ community; if we are going to take on the carbon pollution  that is destroying so much in American agriculture and our forests and  our fishing, doing so much damage with fiercer storms; if we are going  to take this on, we must pass the For the People Act. 

  This act has passed the House down the hall. It has come down here,  and it has been buried by the Republican leadership in this Chamber in,  I must say, one of the most deliberate acts of sabotage of the  Constitution we have ever seen on the floor of this Senate, and that  sabotage must end. 

   39, H.R. 1; that  the bill be considered read a third time and passed; and that the  motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no  intervening action or debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, my colleague has just demonstrated why  this bill should be on the floor. He has given extensive conversation  on a series of points that should be deliberated upon. 

  I say to my colleague from Missouri, isn't this what we should be  doing as a body, putting issues on the floor of the Senate and debating  them for the future of this country so that we can get, if you will,  right to the facts rather than to have things obscured by the fact that  the issue is not on the floor. 

  So I would encourage my colleague from Missouri to go back to his  caucus and say: You know, I just gave a vigorous opposition to this  bill, but I believe in the role of the Senate in deliberating the  issues. So I think this bill should be put on the floor, and I think it  should be open to amendments. 

  I can hear from what my colleague has stated that he probably thinks  the bill should be shrunk and probably thinks it could also be  expanded. Good. That is the point of having debate and amendments on  the floor of the Senate. 

  So I would hope, in the spirit of your comments, you would be willing  to actually stand up and debate this bill and advocate for your  colleagues to debate this bill on the floor of the Senate, because once  upon a time, this floor would have been full of Members arguing over  key issues, enlightening each other, pointing out the flaws in their  thinking, but now substantive policy bills don't arrive here on the  floor because of an unconstitutional position--one that is not  delineated in the Constitution--the majority leader has decided that  nothing should be debated on this floor that he alone doesn't want  considered. 

  Let's think about some of the points that were just raised. One point  was that the Federal Government should have no role in elections; it  should all be left to local officials. Didn't we have that debate in  1965 in the Voting Rights Act? Why did the Federal Government say that  we should, in fact, have laws for the integrity of our elections? It  was because there were all kinds of forms of voter intimidation and  voter suppression, keeping the people of the United States, the  citizens of the United States, from fully participating in their  democratic Republic. It is the Constitution that laid out this role for  the Federal Government, saying Congress may at any time by law make or  alter such regulations regarding elections. So it is the Constitution  that envisioned that if States failed to protect the integrity of our  elections, then we should act right here, right now. 

  My colleague said he didn't like the idea that the bill says what  type of paper to use. Well, that's certainly something that can be  worked out. But shouldn't we have paper ballots everywhere? 

  My colleague said local officials are doing a great job. Then why  were people in minority districts waiting 7 hours to vote, when people  in many other districts--more affluent districts--were waiting 7  minutes to vote? That is discrimination, straight and simple. Shouldn't  we debate eliminating that discrimination here on the floor of the  Senate? 

  This is about the integrity of our elections. This is about the  vision of our Constitution. This is about not letting the wealthy and  powerful control what happens in our United States of America. 

  If we do not address this corruption of this Senate and of the voting  institutions, then we, in fact, will fail to fulfill our responsibility  under the Constitution of the people, by the people, and for the  people. 

  Thank you, Madam President. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT