Wyden, Merkley: Legacy Emanuel to Get Federal Aid for Telehealth Work During COVID-19 Pandemic


U.S. Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley today announced that Legacy Emanuel Medical Center in Portland will receive $368,912 in federal funds to help provide telehealth services during the coronavirus pandemic. 

"Telehealth has proven to be an incredibly valuable tool for medical providers to care for patients in Oregon and nationwide," Wyden said. "During a pandemic, that value is magnified even more -- and I am gratified that Legacy Emanuel has earned these urgently needed federal resources to help Oregonians during this public health crisis."

"Investments in telehealth capabilities not only help our dedicated health care professionals deliver high-quality care to Oregonians during this pandemic, but also help us keep those workers on the frontline of this crisis healthy," said Merkley. "On behalf of all Oregonians, I thank our health care professionals for all that they are doing to treat our communities, and will continue to fight for funding that will provide them with the support they need to do their jobs effectively and safely."

The $368,912 award for Legacy Emanuel from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) COVID-19 Telehealth Program will help the health care provider with telemedicine carts, tablets, and remote diagnostic equipment to treat and monitor hospitalized patients in intensive care units and emergency departments. And the resources authorized by the CARES Act will also help to allow specialty and sub-specialty providers to safely treat and monitor patients at multiple facilities using telehealth.

"The FCC Telehealth Grant supports Legacy's mission of good health for our people, patients, community, and world by helping us deliver excellent care to Oregonians right at home," said Legacy Health CEO Kathryn Correia. "We are grateful to Senators Wyden and Merkley for their leadership. Telehealth will continue to be an integral part of how we care for our patients, and we look forward to accelerating and expanding our program, which has enabled Legacy providers to continue to interact with patients throughout the COVID-19 crisis."