Wyden, Merkley: Central Oregon Intergovernmental Council to Receive More than $3.8 Million for Transit


U.S. Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley today announced the Central Oregon Intergovernmental Council will receive more than $3.8 million in federal transit aid through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and. Economic Security Act (CARES) Act.

"The economic impact of this public health crisis has hit transit systems hard and the Oregonians who work for them to get people to their jobs, the grocery store, the doctor's office and more," Wyden said. "I am glad these resources are on the road to Central Oregon and will keep battling to get our state everything that's needed to weather COVID-19."

"Transit is particularly crucial for many Oregonians right now, from frontline workers who need transit to get to their jobs, to individuals who use transit to get essentials like food and medicine," said Merkley. "We need to make sure public transit keeps running and that it is able to be adapted for this unprecedented health crisis. These resources will be critical to accomplishing these goals in Central Oregon."

The $3.87 million in Federal Transit Administration funds can be used for operating assistance, ADA complementary paratransit service, preventive maintenance, project administration, security services, and security equipment to respond to the COVID-19 health emergency.

The council serves Crook, Deschutes and Jefferson counties; the cities of Bend, Culver, La Pine, Madras, Metolius, Prineville, Redmond and Sisters; and the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs.

"Thank you Senators Wyden and Merkley for your unwavering commitment to bringing much needed funding to our local communities," said council Executive Director Tammy Baney. "Transit plays a critical role in accessing vital services such as medical appointments and pharmacies, along with assisting our essential front line workers in getting to their jobs. This investment is an important part of our recovery plan; we are grateful for the Senators' hard work on our behalf."