Condemning Anti-Semitism


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, after decades of pledging Never Again, we are  watching the vile presence of anti-Semitism rear its ugly head once  again.

First, the unthinkable happened 2 weeks ago here in the streets of  the Nation's Capital when two staffers from the Israeli Embassy, Yaron  Lischinsky and Sarah Milgrim, were brutally murdered. Sarah was one of  our own: a Kansan, a native of Overland Park, and a proud graduate of  the University of Kansas who cared deeply about the shared human  dignity of all people.

Then, just days ago, at a peaceful pro-Israel demonstration in  Colorado, a Hamas sympathizer threw Molotov cocktails into a crowd and  injured more than a dozen people while yelling: ``Free Palestine.''

Audrey and I are deeply grieved by these senseless anti-Semitic  terror attacks, and we continue to lift up the victims, their families,  and their loved ones in prayer.

Now is not the time to waver in our commitment to Israel or the  protection of the humanity of our Jewish neighbors here and around the  world. Now is the time to rededicate ourselves to the God-given right  to live in peace and safety of Jewish people both in Israel and across  the globe. We must condemn terrorism. We must condemn anti-Semitism,  and we must call it out for what it is: pure evil.

Our support of Israel must never ever waver, and our response to  anti-Semitism must always be clear and immediate.                              America Wins Again

Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, over the Memorial Day recess, Rasmussen found  that a majority of Americans say that the country is on the right  track. Under President Trump, America keeps winning again and again.  Promises made, promises kept.

Mr. Speaker, 77 million Americans trusted President Trump to restore  common sense to our Nation's Capital by bringing down everyday costs,  reining in our Federal spending, lowering taxes, rolling back  burdensome regulations, strengthening our Nation's border security, and  getting our fiscal house back in order. President Trump has already  begun delivering on that mandate, and Congress is helping him to  advance this agenda.

Just a few days ago here in this Chamber, House Republicans voted to  deliver the largest tax cut in American history. We made long-overdue  investments in our Nation's border security by funding the completion  of the border wall, investing in modern technologies to assist in the  interception of drug and human smuggling, and increased detention  capacity for Immigration and Customs Enforcement as they work to deport  violent criminals and gang members who are in this country illegally.

Our bill supports American farmers, ranchers, and ag producers like  those in the Big First District of Kansas who want to see the farm  safety net strengthened by expanding crop insurance and updating  reference prices.

We permanently expanded the death tax exemption, saving 2 million  family farms and saving those families more than $10 billion.

We supported President Trump and Secretary Duffy's request to make  much-needed investments in the Federal Aviation Administration to  modernize our air traffic control technology and infrastructure and  uphold the gold standard of American aviation.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act strengthens our social safety net  while better stewarding the tax dollars of hardworking Americans.

Americans are generous people, but we cannot allow the government to  abuse that generosity. Programs like Medicaid and SNAP were intended  for the most vulnerable populations in our country: pregnant women,  single parents with kids too young for school, low-income Americans,  disabled individuals, and the elderly.

Over the years, these programs have been exploited and expanded  beyond their initial intent, causing the cost of these programs to  skyrocket exponentially. If taxpaying Americans can get up every day  and go to work, why shouldn't we ask the same thing of those who  benefit from that generosity.

Our bill requires able-bodied adults without kids too young for  school to work or volunteer at least 20 hours a week. This includes  volunteering at a food pantry, a local church, or giving back to their  community.

It is disheartening that so many of my Democratic colleagues would  prefer to lie about what our bill does and limit Americans to a  permanent destination of government assistance rather than empowering  them to return to the ladder of opportunity. This is not the American  Dream.

I am hopeful that the Senate will move quickly to get it over the  finish line and onto the President's desk. The country cannot afford to  get this bill wrong, and I trust that every single Republican is  committed to getting it to the President as soon as possible and  helping America win yet again.                       NIH CUTS HARM OUR CONSTITUENTS

(Ms. Dexter of Oregon was recognized to address the House for 5  minutes.)