Help Small Businesses Thrive Again


Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, the Big First District of Kansas is home to  more than 20,000 small businesses who employ over 80 percent of working  adults in my district. These small businesses are the backbone of our  economy. Their stories, defined by sacrifice, hard work, and  determination, serve as a reminder of what the American Dream is all  about: that anyone, from anywhere, can come to the U.S. the right way,  work hard, make an honest living, and succeed. That is what it is all  about.

Many of the small businesses I represent are family owned and  operated. As the fifth generation to grow up on my family farm and  feedyard in western Kansas, I understand the immense sense of pride and  gratitude that comes with growing up around a family business. It is  much more than a 9 to 5; it is a personal investment of endless hours  to see a dream come to life. When that dream gets off the ground,  families give it their all to keep it afloat. They take pride in  serving their neighbors and leaving their communities better than they  found them. Our Federal policies ought to help them do just that.

Since I came to Congress, I have worked nonstop to make this a  reality. Every year, I have introduced legislation to preserve stepped- up basis and to stop far-left Democrats' farm killer tax. For decades,  stepped-up basis has protected families from being forced to pay  capital gains taxes on inherited assets.

President Biden tried his best to remove this provision, which would  have resulted in the destruction of family farms across my district and  around the country. I have always and will continue to oppose any  effort to impose new taxes on small, family-owned businesses, period.

I have fought to protect similar exemptions for students from family  farms and small businesses. Last year, new FAFSA provisions altered the  Federal formula for student aid, counting assets in small businesses  and family farms as part of the family's net worth. My Family Farm and  Small Business Exemption Act seeks to correct this flaw and to level  the playing field for students who come from these families.

When these students are applying for higher education financial aid,  assets tied up in a small business should not count against them. As  their families work tirelessly to make an honest living and serve their  neighbors, we should make it easier for them to succeed and pass on  these businesses to the next generation.

My bill evens the playing field and protects the American Dream for  every student. I was proud to see it included in the bill that the  House Education and Workforce Committee marked up last week.

Congress should also roll back burdensome regulations that further  handcuff our small businesses in an already challenging environment.  For the last 4 years, our small business owners navigated regulation  after regulation imposed by the Biden administration. President Biden  attempted to regulate every aspect of small business owners'  livelihoods if they didn't fall in line with his Green New Deal agenda.

Small business owners, already struggling with sky-high inflation,  begged Washington, D.C., for less regulation and more freedom to just  make a living. The Republican majority has spent the last 4 months  rolling back these regulations. That is what our small business owners  want and that is what they deserve.

Most importantly, Mr. Speaker, over the last few months, this body  will work to further support small business owners by extending the  2017 tax cuts. These historic tax cuts by President Trump during his  first term ushered in an economic boom that benefited America's small  businesses and the communities they serve. We have a duty to bring back  the growing economy and to ensure that family businesses that are the  backbone of our country can thrive again.

If we fail to extend the Trump tax cuts, small businesses will see  their tax rates nearly double, harming local economies and Main Street.  This financial burden would limit small businesses' ability to grow and  force some to reduce the size of their staffs or even close their doors  entirely. America can't afford to leave these men and women out to dry.

During this National Small Business Week, we thank the hardworking  men and women who make up the more than 33 million small businesses  across our great Nation, employing nearly 62 million Americans, and  equipping them to feed their families, put a roof over their heads, and  clothes on their backs. I look forward to working with my colleagues in  this body to see America's small business community thrive once again.

Mr. Speaker, if our small businesses fail, America fails, and the  world cannot afford that. I recognize that over these next few weeks we  will have very difficult conversations on the best way to extend these  cuts and enact President Trump's agenda, but they are conversations  worth having.

Mr. Speaker, America is counting on us.