Draining the Swamp in Order to Put America First


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I want to make it very clear to my  constituents in Kentucky what my objectives are over the next 22 months  of the 119th Congress.

First of all, President Trump received an overwhelming mandate not  just in Kentucky's First Congressional District, but all across  Kentucky.

The mandate was to do two major things. First of all, obviously, the  mandate involved draining the swamp. That is what President Trump  campaigned on; and, secondly, to pass an America First agenda.

With respect to draining the swamp, President Trump nominated  disrupters to lead his Cabinet and agencies, people like Kash Patel at  the FBI; John Ratcliffe at the CIA; and RFK, Jr., at HHS.

I was proud to support every single nominee, and I am pretty  confident that every single nominee will win Senate confirmation, which  has never happened before.

With respect to passing an America First agenda, the first step in  that was what we voted on last week, a budget reconciliation bill. I  was proud to work with our House Oversight and Government Reform  Committee as a major committee of jurisdiction on the budget  reconciliation bill. We pledged to come up with $50 billion in savings  to go along with the first real effort in the entire 8 years I have  been in Congress by this body to actually save money and to cut  wasteful, unnecessary expenses which is what the mandate was all about.

This is what President Trump campaigned on not just in Kentucky but  all across America. I pledge to continue to work with President Trump.

Next, he has asked us to pass a continuing resolution. It is a shame  that Congress is broken. In the entire 8 years I have been here, the  Senate has failed to pass any individual appropriations bill, and this  is what we have to do to be able to pass the Trump agenda with respect  to renewing the Trump tax cuts, with respect to creating and passing  legislation to prohibit tax on tips and tax on overtime, and all the  new blue-collar, working-class tax cuts that President Trump campaigned  on and received a mandate to do.

After the mandate, draining the swamp, and passing the America First  agenda, next is to work with DOGE. In the House Oversight and  Government Reform Committee we created a DOGE Subcommittee. I asked  Marjorie Taylor Greene from Georgia to lead that subcommittee.

The first three hearings of that subcommittee have involved improper  payments and looking at the USAID's mishandling of funds. The next  hearing will be on defunding NPR and other government-funded media  outlets.

This is exactly what President Trump campaigned on. This is exactly  what I talked about with my constituents when I ran for reelection last  November. We want to look at the spending. I know there are protesters,  there are the Indivisible groups funded by George Soros who also funded  the Congressional Integrity Project who spent at least $2 million  harassing me over past 2 years with banners and all the TV cameras, the  mobile TV units that drove through rural Kentucky trying to intimidate  me from the Biden investigation, which, by the way, ended with Joe  Biden's last act as President of the United States to pardon his entire  family.

I know my friends on the other side of the aisle don't like to think  about that, but that is a fact.

All DOGE is wanting to do is look at spending and see if we can cut  out unnecessary spending. I think the American taxpayers want that. We  continue to pledge to see if we can find wasteful spending and  eliminate it altogether.                 Recognizing Terry Forcht of the Forcht Bank

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Terry Forcht,  Forcht Group of Kentucky chairman and CEO of the Forcht Bank, for an  impressive 40 years of service and dedication to communities across the  Commonwealth, including in the First Congressional District.

The core banking principles of Forcht Bank are respecting the  customer, offering competitive rates, and serving the community. Across  Kentucky, with 23 banking centers and three loan production offices,  Forcht Bank continues to serve Kentuckians and Bluegrass businesses.

Mr. Forcht's role has allowed for the enhancement and visionary  leadership of Forcht Bank to celebrate this 40th anniversary signifying  exceptional dedication and service to Kentucky communities.

I consider Terry Forcht a close friend, and I appreciate all that he  has done for all the communities in Kentucky and all the charitable  organizations. I congratulate him on his outstanding achievement.