Guidance Out of Darkness Act


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1515) to increase access to agency guidance documents.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1515

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Guidance Out Of Darkness       Act'' or the ``GOOD Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given the       term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.

(2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of       the Office of Management and Budget.

(3) Guidance document.--

(A) In general.--The term ``guidance document''--

(i) means an agency statement of general applicability       (other than a rule that has the force and effect of law       promulgated in accordance with the notice and comment       procedures under section 553 of title 5, United States Code)       that--

(I) does not have the force and effect of law; and

(II) is designated by an agency official as setting forth--

(aa) a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical       issue; or

(bb) an interpretation of a statutory or regulatory issue;       and

(ii) may include--

(I) a memorandum;

(II) a notice;

(III) a bulletin;

(IV) a directive;

(V) a news release;

(VI) a letter;

(VII) a blog post;

(VIII) a no-action letter;

(IX) a speech by an agency official; and

(X) any combination of the items described in subclauses       (I) through (IX).

(B) Rule of construction.--The term ``guidance document''--

(i) shall be construed broadly to effectuate the purpose       and intent of this Act; and

(ii) shall not be limited to the items described in       subparagraph (A)(ii).       SEC. 3. PUBLICATION OF GUIDANCE DOCUMENTS ON THE INTERNET.

(a) In General.--Subject to section 5, on the date on which       an agency issues a guidance document, the agency shall       publish the guidance document in accordance with the       requirements under section 4.

(b) Previously Issued Guidance Documents.--Subject to       section 5, not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, each agency shall publish, in       accordance with the requirements under section 4, any       guidance document issued by that agency that is in effect on       that date.       SEC. 4. SINGLE LOCATION.

(a) In General.--All guidance documents published under       section 3 by an agency shall be published in a single       location on an internet website designated by the Director       under subsection (d).

(b) Agency Internet Websites.--Each agency shall, for       guidance documents published by the agency under section 3,       publish a hyperlink on the internet website of the agency       that provides access to the guidance documents at the       location described in subsection (a).

(c) Organization.--

(1) In general.--The guidance documents described in       subsection (a) shall be--

(A) categorized as guidance documents; and

(B) further divided into subcategories as appropriate.

(2) Agency internet websites.--The hyperlinks described in       subsection (b) shall be prominently displayed on the internet       website of the agency.

(d) Designation.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Director shall designate an       internet website on which guidance documents shall be       published under section 3.       SEC. 5. DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION EXEMPT FROM DISCLOSURE                     UNDER FOIA.

If a guidance document issued by an agency is a document       that is exempt from disclosure under section 552(b) of title       5, United States Code (commonly known as the ``Freedom of       Information Act''), or contains information that is exempt       from disclosure under that section, that document or       information, as the case may be, shall not be subject to the       requirements under this Act.       SEC. 6. RESCINDED GUIDANCE DOCUMENTS.

On the date on which a guidance document issued by an       agency is rescinded, or, in the case of a guidance document       that is rescinded pursuant to a court order, not later than       the date on which the order is entered, the agency shall, at       the location described in section 4(a)--

(1) maintain the rescinded guidance document; and

(2) indicate--

(A) that the guidance document is rescinded;

(B) if the guidance document was rescinded pursuant to a       court order, the case number of the case in which the order       was entered; and

(C) the date on which the guidance document was rescinded.       SEC. 7. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

(a) Validity of Guidance Documents.--Nothing in this Act       shall be construed to mean that noncompliance with any       provision of this Act affects or otherwise impacts the       validity of any guidance document.

(b) Congressional Review of Guidance Documents.--Nothing in       this Act shall be construed to affect or otherwise impact       whether a guidance document is subject to congressional       review under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code.       SEC. 8. REPORT ON AGENCY COMPLIANCE.

Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on       Oversight and Government Reform of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and       Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on agency       compliance with this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1515, the Guidance  Out of Darkness Act, or the GOOD Act.

Regulatory guidance includes agency statements that, while not  intended to have the force and effect of law, establish agency policies  of statutory, regulatory, or technical issues. Because such guidance  communicates how an agency will administer their law and its programs,  it has a significant effect on regulated entities.

Regulated entities in the public should know what agency guidance  says about the laws and programs that affect them. However, guidance  documents are not easy to find. They are not consistently posted on  agency websites.

This inconsistency burdens regulated entities, and it especially  burdens small businesses who often lack the resources to hire  compliance experts. The problem is so bad that agency guidance  documents are known as regulatory dark matter.

For a brief time, the first Trump administration was able to bring  helpful and needed sunshine to the situation. Following the GOOD Act's  passage by the House during the 115th Congress, the first Trump  administration voluntarily adopted the bill's reforms through an  October 2019 executive order after the Senate failed to act.

Under the executive order, guidance was required to become fully  transparent online. Across the government, each agency was directed to  make available on its website a single, searchable indexed database  with links to all guidance documents in effect. As a result, for the  first time, Members of the public could easily find whatever agency  guidance they needed online in a central location.

The order was in effect during 2019 and 2020 but was regrettably  rescinded by the Biden administration. As a result, agencies pulled  down their guidance web pages, and guidance, once again, fell into  darkness, increasing the potential for agency abuse. This is why we  need to, once again, pass the GOOD Act in the House and require  agencies to publish their regulatory guidance in a single, easily  accessible location.

The American public deserves nothing less from their government.

I thank my committee colleague, Representative Ro Khanna from  California, for cosponsoring my legislation, and I especially thank the  ranking member for working with my staff to help us advance a  bipartisan bill here today.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the Guidance  Out Of Darkness Act, or GOOD Act, and to pass this legislation once  again, like the House did in the last term. I yield back the balance of  my time.