Lowering Age At Which A Minor May Be Tried As Adult for Certain Criminal Offenses in District of Columbia


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 707, I call up  the bill (H.R. 5140) to lower the age at which a minor may be tried as  an adult for certain criminal offenses in the District of Columbia to  14 years of age, and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 5140 to lower the age at which a minor  may be tried as an adult for certain criminal offenses in the District  of Columbia to 14 years of age.

The District of Columbia has seen a staggering increase in juvenile  crime since the pandemic. According to the Metropolitan Police  Department, 51.8 percent of all robbery arrests in 2024 were juveniles,  and 53 percent of all carjacking arrests in 2025, as of August, were  juveniles.

Congress must respond to these violent crimes being committed by  juvenile perpetrators. Currently, minors 16 years old and older are  eligible to have their case moved up to criminal court and to be tried  as an adult in D.C. This bill lowers that age to 14 years old, making  14- and 15-year-olds who commit violent crimes eligible to be charged  as adults.

Violent crime refers to murder, first-degree sexual abuse, burglary  in the first degree, and robbery while armed, for example. When  juveniles commit crimes of this magnitude, they deserve sentencing that  reflects the seriousness of the crimes they committed.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Brandon Gill for leading this  legislation. I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, we have debated these bills in a sincere  effort to work with the President of the United States to lower crime  in D.C. We have heard nothing from the Democrats other than there is no  crime problem in D.C., and that a solution is to make Washington, D.C.,  a State.

We are serious about lowering crime. We applaud the efforts of the  President of the United States. We will continue to work with him to  make our Capital City as safe as possible. I appreciate Brandon Gill,  the sponsor of the bill, and Byron Donalds for sponsoring the last  bill.

Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, that is a perfect example of the difference in the two  sides on how to handle crime in D.C.

You have to hold people accountable for crimes, Mr. Speaker. If you  don't, then they will continue to commit crimes. That is what we have  here in Washington, D.C. That is why we are here today. That is why we  are here today.

Just coddling criminals, hiring therapists, hiring more social  workers, and creating more government programs have failed to work in  Washington, D.C., and many of the cities around the United States.

We have a President who is going to be tough on crime and tough on  criminals. That is what the theme of this legislation is, Mr. Speaker.  That is our way to reduce crime in Washington, D.C.

Their way hasn't worked. We are going to do it our way if we get the  support in the Chamber today.

Mr. Speaker,

Again, we are talking about violent crimes, violent crimes. What we  have seen in Washington, D.C., is an outbreak of juvenile crime because  the definition of juvenile in this city is 7 years higher than every  other city in America.

With this legislation, we are talking about addressing issues of  violent crime with juveniles. I think, Mr. Speaker, this is the path to  try to get the crime under control in Washington, D.C.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation to  ensure that violent crime, including murder and first degree sexual  abuse, are taken seriously in the District of Columbia.