Protect America's Workforce Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2550. Americans pay several  hundred billion dollars in taxes each year to fund the salaries and  benefits of more than 2 million Federal civilian employees. These  workers are paid to carry out the critical mission and functions of the  Federal Government, but the more than 340 million Americans who foot  the bill do not directly manage Federal executive branch employees.  They elect a President to do that.

The President directs the workforce of the executive branch so he can  fulfill his constitutional duty to ensure the laws of the land are  faithfully executed.

When President Trump ran for office last year, he told the American  public that if--if elected, he would return Federal employees to their  offices, reform the bureaucracy, and restore much-needed accountability  to the workforce. The American people chose to elect him to do just  that.

Even before President Trump took office, Federal collective  bargaining legal authorities were weaponized to sabotage what Americans  had voted for. On their way out the door, lameduck Biden administration  officials signed collective bargaining agreements with Federal employee  union bosses specifically designed to tie the hands of incoming  President Trump.

In January, at our very first hearing this Congress, the House  Committee on Oversight and Government Reform heard testimony from  President Biden's Social Security Commissioner, Martin O'Malley. He cut  a deal with union bosses after the November election and just before  leaving the agency to run for chair of the Democratic National  Committee.

The deal locked in telework levels for tens of thousands of Social  Security Administration employees for the entirety of the incoming  Trump administration. To be clear, this was done specifically to Trump- proof the workforce and to force the incoming President to continue the  failed management policies the public had just voted to end.

We must ask: Are we going to uphold the President's constitutional  role as head of the executive branch?

Can he truly lead if he is held hostage by union deals to which he  never  agreed and were intended to undermine his authority?

Should an elected President be unable to bring tax-funded Federal  employees back to work for his entire 4-year term?

The American people do not think so.

That is why the House Committee on Oversight and Reform adopted  legislation that would allow the President to manage the workforce  without being bound by last-minute union agreements designed to  undermine him. That legislation, the Preserving Presidential Management  Authority Act, sponsored by Representative Cloud of Texas, is the bill  we should be debating here today.

It is important to remember that public-sector unions are  fundamentally different from their private-sector counterparts. In  fact, none other than Franklin Delano Roosevelt, a major champion of  private-sector unions, believed that public-sector unions made no  sense. FDR wrote: ``The process of collective bargaining, as usually  understood, cannot be transplanted into the public service.''

Why is that? In the private sector, unions represent workers and sit  across the bargaining table from representatives of businessowners.  However, Federal unions are not negotiating with a profit-seeking  corporation. They are negotiating with the public's elected  representatives.

As FDR put it in the case of the public sector, the employer is the  whole people. Federal unions, in other words, seek concessions not from  private owners but from the taxpayers themselves.

Since Federal salaries and benefits are determined by laws, which  also establish basic civil service protections for employees, what  exactly do Federal unions bargain over? They bargain over conditions of  employment like telework.

Unions also seek contract provisions that limit management's ability  to hold employees accountable through disciplinary procedures or  performance management processes.

I urge my colleagues to buck Federal union bosses. Put Americans  first and oppose the so-called Protect America's Workforce Act.

General Leave

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, that was a long minute for the leader of the  Democratic Party to advocate for more work-from-home policies for our  Federal employees.

I think the American people have spoken loud and clear. They support  our Federal employees, like the Republican Party, but we expect them to  show up for work, not get paid to be home and not be accessible by  phone or by computer or by email.

That is what we heard from the leader of the Democratic Party.

Mr. Speaker, she mentioned healthcare, and the healthcare system that  she is talking about that she says has failed is ObamaCare, what they  voted for and they created. I just find it ironic.

I hope every taxpayer in America who gets up in the morning, drives  to work, works hard, and pays their taxes is listening to this debate  because there is a difference here.

What the President is trying to do is make government more efficient.  The argument I am hearing here, and I think the people who work hard  and pay taxes are hearing, there is not a single government agency that  is at any time inefficient. Every single Federal employee is at 100  percent efficiency and doesn't need to be held accountable. They can  work from home and do whatever they want.

We support the Federal workforce. We want to make the Federal  workforce hardier. We want the taxpayers to get their money's worth out  of the hard-earned taxes that they send to Washington.

What this legislation is doing and the goal is to try to hinder the  President's ability to get the backs of the American taxpayer and  ensure that every government agency is efficient and every Federal  employee is working hard, just like the taxpayers who work hard and pay  taxes and send their tax dollars here to Congress for us to  appropriate.

I think that is an important part of the discussion that needs to be  mentioned on the floor. I hope that a lot of people in America, working  hard, frustrated with Washington are watching this debate. I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, the President has been fighting back against the deals  that public sector unions have negotiated for themselves at the expense  of the American taxpayer by invoking an existing legal authority.

H.R. 2550 directly threatens that progress by overturning the  President's executive order that exercises one of the few tools  available to him under the law to more effectively manage the Federal  workforce.

Now, it is no secret that accountability problems in the Federal  workforce are legendary. It takes a Herculean effort to fire a poorly  performing Federal worker or one who is engaged in misconduct.

Collective bargaining agreements often create procedural hurdles to  firing such employees, above and beyond steps required in law and  regulation.

For example, unions can bring removals before private arbitrators  instead of appealing to the Merit Systems Protection Board.

The Trump administration is exercising its electoral mandate to  address this problem.

For instance, the President has embarked on an ambitious overhaul of  the performance management system and is pursuing more streamlined  disciplinary procedures.

The reality is that preexisting union agreements the President never  signed onto can subvert these efforts. They provide barriers to  accountability beyond basic employee protections that exist in law.  Perhaps the most inappropriate aspect of Federal collective bargaining  agreements come from provisions governing the use of official time,  which is when Federal employees are paid by taxpayers to do union  business.

Indeed, many Federal employees spend all their time doing union  business. More than 3 million Federal employee work hours were spent  doing union business time in 2024 alone, according to the OPM report.

The cost to American taxpayers in salary and benefits was more than  $200 million. There was an additional $31 million cost for related  expenses, primarily the provision of Federal meeting space. The only  reason we know this is that the Trump administration collected and  reported this 2024 data.

House Oversight Committee Republicans have attempted to legislate  annual public reporting on the use and abuse of official time. However,  Democrats have consistently opposed even this ounce of accountability.

They have another opportunity to change their ways by supporting the  current version of this legislation H.R. 5749, the Official Time  Reporting Act. However, if my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  are not interested in supporting legislative reforms to bring  accountability to the Federal workforce and public sector unions, they  should at the very least not roll back existing progress made under  this administration.

I, therefore, call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  stand with the American taxpayer by supporting the administration's  efforts to bring accountability to the executive branch's workforce and  oppose H.R. 2550.