Breaking the Gridlock Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698788/breaking-the-gridlock-act


Mr. Speaker, this argument is about universal access. For years, the  Republican leadership in this institution has attempted to avert this  very moment. For us this is not to be about spiking the football. This  is not to be about an end-zone dance. This is about to declare a major  victory for the American people.

Despite what I have heard, they have used every maneuver and  procedure to prevent the very debate that we are going to have for the  next hour. All these years later, they never even had a plan or an  alternative.

We can finally choose families, and they can join us today in  extending the ACA tax credits and save healthcare for millions of  members of the American family. How easily and quickly they did a  massive tax cut for the wealthiest amongst us while subsequently  arguing that they could deny average men and women an opportunity for  health insurance.

So here we are all these years later, as one who helped to write the  Affordable Care Act, the ACA is still standing. We will continue to  improve it every single year. When I consider now the uninsured  enrollment in America is down to 6 percent, it is thanks to the ACA.

If Congress did not do what we are about to do in the next hour, a  family of four making $130,000 would see their marketplace premium go  from $921 to $1,992. That would be an 18.4 percent increase. Our  enhanced credits make sure that nobody would pay more than 8.5 percent  of their income for coverage.

Now, Republicans think that people can afford increased premiums by  37 percent, and that is what they are proposing today. They said 2  weeks ago that they had a healthcare plan that they wrote on Friday  night. As I noted at the time, it was held together by bubble gum and  Elmer's Glue. By the way, Democrats never even got to see it. If they  had a healthcare plan alternative, they should have shown it to us.

Let me say this, Mr. Speaker. This is a good day for the American  family. This is an important consideration for this institution.  Despite repeated denials and efforts to thwart this very moment, in the  next hour, my colleagues are going to do for the American family what  they said they would do, and that is to extend these tax credits for  the ACA.

Mr. NEAL.  Clark), the Democratic minority whip, who can stand  at that microphone and say the following: Every child in Massachusetts  has health insurance and 97 percent of the adults in Massachusetts are  covered because of the ObamaCare plan.

Mr. NEAL.  Pelosi). There is no finer leader or person who was  more determined to help bring us to this moment and whose fortitude  helped to give us the ACA than Speaker Emerita Pelosi.

Mr. NEAL.

Mr. NEAL.  Sanchez).

Mr. NEAL.  Sewell).

Mr. NEAL.  DelBene).

Mr. NEAL.  Chu).

Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. NEAL.  Plaskett).

Mr. NEAL.  Underwood).

Mr. NEAL.  Salinas).

Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am prepared  to close.

Mr. Speaker, it is too bad that we had to play this out to the  anxiety and consternation of the American people. Think of what this  might be like if you didn't know a month ago whether or not your  children were going to have health insurance. Think of the anguish that  you might feel proceeding into the holidays while not knowing whether  or not that child would be able to complete the doctor's appointment  that you had made for them because you didn't have health insurance.

I didn't hear the other side complaining about keeping 26-year-olds  on their parents' health insurance. How about the idea that, in the  ACA, we were able to abolish preexisting conditions being routinely  used to deny the opportunity to access even primary care for millions  and millions of Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I call attention to this because I have watched over  these years how the ACA has not only become more popular, but the  American people have come to expect the benefits of the ACA.

This argument for those of us who were here and participated at the  time was not really complex at all. The argument was that we would  proceed on the basis of the notion of universal access and that you  wouldn't have to worry that if you went to the emergency room, you  somehow might be turned away because you had not been able to pay  another bill.

We don't get a chance on this Earth to predict when we are going to  get sick. Those are the basic actuarial realities of what insurance is  about. By way of example, we don't get to buy homeowners' insurance  after the house has burned down. We don't get to buy life insurance  after we die.

The idea of what we did here was to spread the notion of risk, an  entirely reasonable consequence, authored by former President Obama  and, by the way, the steadfast determination at the time of Speaker  Pelosi.

This was negotiated across the board with all members of the  healthcare system, and we came up with a reasonable solution that we  continue to build upon.

Mr. Speaker, I will point out a couple of pretty important  statistics: 4 years straight of record enrollment in the Affordable  Care Act, and 24.3 million Americans have now signed up.

That is what we had in mind. When you look back at these enhanced  premium tax credits, we keep hearing the other side say that there are  billionaires and millionaires who are driving the benefit. JCT has said  that nobody over $500,000 is getting this benefit. We are open to these  conversations as we go forward, as well. Yet, only 38 percent of their  tax cuts inure to the benefit of people at the lower end of the  economic spectrum.

By ending these enhanced tax credits, we will stop the Republican  assault on the ACA. They have repeatedly said that they want to work  with us, but there has been no effort on the Republican side to work  with us on expanding and extending these tax credits.

There has been no concerted effort from our Republican colleagues to  really put on a piece of legislation, a tax bill, that stands up under  the magnifying glass of critical analysis. It is patchwork. It is  announced every time we get near some cliff in the debate that somehow  they have a healthcare plan. We haven't seen it yet.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to close by saying the same words that I  opened with: This is a most significant day. This is a happy day for  the American people.

Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 230,  nays 196, not voting 5, as follows:                               [Roll No. 11]                                 YEAS--230       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Bresnahan      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Bynum      Carbajal      Carey      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Cuellar      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Davis (NC)      De La Cruz      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fitzpatrick      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois        Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garbarino      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gillen      Golden (ME)      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Gonzalez, V.      Goodlander      Gottheimer      Gray      Green, Al (TX)      Grijalva      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Hurd (CO)      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Joyce (OH)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Kean      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      LaLota      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lawler      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Mackenzie      Magaziner      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Miller (OH)      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Nunn (IA)      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Perez      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salazar      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Suozzi      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Valadao      Van Orden      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Velazquez      Vindman      Walkinshaw      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)      Wittman                                 NAYS--196       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Buchanan      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Davidson      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Gill (TX)      Gimenez      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gooden      Gosar      Graves      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Hudson      Huizenga      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (PA)      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      Langworthy      Latta      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luna      Luttrell      Mace      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Massie      Mast      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Spartz      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Van Epps      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                               NOT VOTING--5       Baird      Hunt      McCaul      Murphy      Rutherford

Messrs. CRAWFORD and SCOTT FRANKLIN of Florida changed their vote  from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

So the bill was passed.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.