One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693159/one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Mr. Speaker, we might have visited a lot of places. Tonight, or this  morning, I should say, why don't we visit reality. Here is the reality  because we are going to talk about facts for the next 15 minutes on our  side.

One thing you can understand very clearly is that the Republicans in  the House surrendered to the Republicans in the Senate. Once again,  when the going got tough, both institutions surrendered to the  President.

This bill became worse along the way when it was already a pretty bad  product. In terms of expertise, let's reject what the Congressional  Budget Office says. Let's reject what the Joint Committee on Taxation  might have to say. Of course, when the going gets tough, let's blame  the Federal Reserve Board because of interest rates.

Under this bill, here is a fact, Mr. Speaker: If you made $1 million  last year, you are going to make an additional $96,000 in the next tax- filing season. That is a fact. Yet, here is the real fact and the scam  that is being presented to the American people with this legislation:  If you made under $50,000 last year, you are going to get 68 cents a  day in terms of your tax relief. The Senate was too generous. They were  at 73 cents, so the House Republicans wanted to go back to 68 cents.

Here is the real kicker: For a party that has preached fiscal  rectitude that I have listened to all of my years here--all of my years  here--voting for the balanced budget amendment, taking up all of these  pursuits in terms of fiscal rectitude, they are borrowing an additional  $5 trillion to pay for a tax cut for the wealthiest amongst us.

Mr. Speaker, $5 trillion is being added to the debt. I call attention  to that because they are taking away health insurance for poor people.  Hospitals are going to suffer. Medicare is going to be cut. The child  credit will leave out the poorest, and seniors are threatened with  losing many of the necessities of everyday life. SNAP, Medicaid,  Medicare, and the ACA are all about to be gutted in the name of a tax  cut for the wealthiest amongst us.

Mr. NEAL.  Sanchez).

Mr. NEAL.  Sewell).

Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I remind the gentlewoman that in 2017, the  Republican Party borrowed $2.3 trillion for that tax cut.

Moore).

Mr. NEAL.  DeLauro).

Mr. NEAL.  Chu).

Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time I have  remaining.

Mr. NEAL.  Salinas).

Mr. NEAL.  I can't wait for the  Republican Party to meet that waitress who is making $32,000 a year and  tell her in this tax bill the Republican Party just gave her 68 cents  more a day because that is the reality of what this tax bill is about.

We could also say in the next breath, if you made a million dollars  last year, you are going to get $96,000. This is a fact-free argument.  They are making this argument that the person at the bottom is going to  do well in contrast to the person at the top. There is simply no  factual basis to that.

By the way, the party of fiscal rectitude is borrowing $5 trillion to  pay for a tax cut for the wealthiest amongst us.

Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. NEAL.  Clark), the distinguished minority whip.

Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I think it is fair to say the leader has done  his part.

I have no further speakers, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.

A recorded vote was ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 218,  noes 214, not voting 0, as follows:                               [Roll No. 190]                                 AYES--218       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Buchanan      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Davidson      De La Cruz      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gimenez      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gooden      Gosar      Graves      Green (TN)      Greene (GA)      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kean      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      LaMalfa      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luna      Luttrell      Mace      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Spartz      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Van Orden      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NOES--214       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Bynum      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Cuellar      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Davis (NC)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fitzpatrick      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gillen      Golden (ME)      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Gonzalez, V.      Goodlander      Gottheimer      Gray      Green, Al (TX)      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Massie      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Perez      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Sherrill      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Suozzi      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Velazquez      Vindman      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)

So the motion to concur was agreed to.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.