Recognizing Edward L. Donnellan, Jr. As the Winner of the 2025 Mary K. Bonstell Teacher of the Year Award


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691693/recognizing-edward-l-donnellan-jr-as-the-winner-of-the-2025-mary-k-bonstell-teacher-of-the-year-award


Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the achievements of  Ed Donnella, originally from Springfield, Massachusetts, who recently  was honored by the Organization of American Historians (OAH) as the  winner of the prestigious 2025 Mary K. Bonstell Teacher of the Year  Award. He currently is a U.S. History and Government teacher at Gonzaga  High School in Washington, D.C.

The award was given at the OAH annual meeting last April in Chicago  and was presented by Pulitzer Prize winning author and historian David  Blight. The citation reads in part: ``Mr. Donnellan has worked  diligently to expand the teaching of history regarding slavery and  social justice issues. He created pioneering student-led research in  the role of Gonzaga College High School's history with slavery, leading  seminars and presentations over this material at both local and  national venues.''

Ed Donnellan grew up in Springfield, Massachusetts and graduated from  the University of Massachusetts and Springfield College where he  studied history. He has been teaching high school for thirty-nine  years. Teaching the history of slavery took on greater meaning when Ed  led a group of Gonzaga students on a three-year journey to research  Gonzaga's historical ties with slavery. Working at the Georgetown  University archives, the students read 19th century financial records  that showed the school was built with profits from Jesuit run slave  plantation in Southern Maryland. The students also identified five  enslaved persons who worked at the school. Reckoning with this history  has been challenging and continues to this day.

As a teacher for over forty years, including U.S. History, I  understand the complex issue of teaching ``difficult histories.'' It is  vital that students get a full picture of the American experience;  history that we are proud of and history that is hard to hear. Learning  the challenging parts of our history ensures that future generations  can learn from mistakes of the previous. That is why it is important to  recognize educators like Ed Donnellan and encourage others to follow in  his footsteps.

Mr. Speaker, please join me in honoring Ed Donnellan and wish him  continued success in educating students on America's past.