Liberty Versus Dictatorship


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691085/liberty-versus-dictatorship


Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, for 1,176 days, people of Ukraine have lived under  constant threat of attack and attack. As the war has dragged on for  over 3 years, Ukrainians have refused to submit to Putin's violence. At  every turn, they have shown the world what it means to be fighting on  the front lines for democracy. At every turn, the Ukrainian people have  been willing to do what is necessary for protection and for peace.

When their sovereignty was threatened by Putin, they defended their  country courageously. When the opportunity for diplomatic negotiations  arose, they were willing to come to the table. In exchange for their  bravery and sacrifice, all they have asked for is respect for their  independence, their autonomy, and their democracy.

Peace between Ukraine and Russia must not come at Ukraine's expense.  We want peace. Ukrainians desperately want peace, but it cannot be a  Russian victory. In order to have a just and lasting peace, we must  return Ukraine to its 1991 borders. Ukraine must also have serious  security assurances from the U.S. and NATO so that Putin is deterred  from ever threatening the country again.

Russia must alone help fund this great construction after targeting  civilian infrastructure, including energy facilities, hospitals, and  schools. We must also hold Putin accountable for his army's war crimes,  like those in Bucha, which I witnessed, and for the kidnapping of  thousands of Ukrainian children.

As the Trump administration continues to push for negotiations  between Ukraine and Russia, we must all keep in mind exactly who we are  dealing with. Putin has refused to negotiate in good faith, reportedly  violating the very same cease-fire he unilaterally declared last week.  So far, he has refused to even direct negotiations with President  Zelenskyy in Turkiye.

This is the same man who has welcomed China's, Iran's, and North  Korea's support for his war effort. He has shown contempt for all  international democratic norms, both in his own country and in dealing  with others.

This is why the only way to deal with Putin is by sending a clear  message--a message of strength and of unity. As the United States has  for the better part of a century, we must continue to stand up to  tyrants and defend freedom. We have learned that isolationism and  appeasing autocrats is a losing strategy. As President Trump and his  administration continue to push for negotiations between Ukraine and  Russia, I encourage them to remember history. Remember the reasons we  fought the Second World War and the reasons we founded NATO.

Now is not the time to abandon our values or our position as a leader  of the free world. Now is the time to pressure Putin to end this brutal  war for good. The future of the Ukrainian people, the future of Europe,  and the future of democracy are dependent on how we meet this moment.  This is a moral, tactical, and strategic imperative.