The Story of Brad and Donald Lang, Sr.


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693640/the-story-of-brad-and-donald-lang-sr


Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, ``diversity'' has become a bad word here in  D.C., but diversity has never been a weakness. It has always been our  greatest strength.

Without the calculations of Katherine Johnson, a Black mathematician  at NASA, American astronauts may never have successfully returned from  space.

Without the code talkers, Native Americans who turned their  indigenous language into an unbreakable code, American soldiers may not  have been victorious in the Second World War.

Without the bravery of the Tuskegee Airmen who courageously flew into  battle abroad, despite facing discrimination at home, the freedom of  all Americans might have been at risk.

Throughout this Nation's history, countless people have had to fight  for their right to be included. My good friend Brad Lang, and his  father, Donald, are powerful examples of that fight.

In 1942, Donald W. Lang, Sr., enlisted in the Army with dreams of  becoming a pilot. Like many men at the time, Donald felt it was his  duty to serve his country, but despite scoring well on the aptitude  test, he, like many other qualified Black men, was forced to wait while  White pilots were fast-tracked for training.

By the time he was accepted for pilot training at the Tuskegee  Institute in Alabama in 1945, the Second World War was coming to a  close.

While he never made it overseas, Mr. Lang rose to the rank of master  sergeant at the Army Air Corps, received three medals for his service,  and served directly under Colonel Noel Parrish, the commander of the  Tuskegee program.

Mr. Lang didn't open up about his military service until his son,  Brad, showed an interest in aviation in the 1970s. On Sundays after  church, Donald would take his family to Newark Airport to watch flights  take off and land. That is where Brad's fascination with airline flying  began.

A decade later, he achieved what his father couldn't do. Brad earned  his pilot's license in college before enrolling as the only Black  student in Purdue University's aviation program. At a time when Black  pilots were still rare, he became a captain for Delta Air Lines.

Through it all, he never forgot to pay homage to those who made his  career in aviation possible. He volunteered with a Commemorative Air  Force Red Tail Squadron for 29 years to ensure that his father's legacy  and that of the Tuskegee Airmen is preserved and shared.

In 2015, Brad participated in the arsenal of democracy flyover to  mark the 70th anniversary of victory in Europe. He flew a P-51C Mustang  ``Tuskegee Airmen'' over the Capitol in a tribute to our Nation's first  Black military pilots.

He once said about his father: ``His experience at Tuskegee was a  paramount experience for him in terms of directing his life after the  military. He would always relate to the discipline and the moral  integrity that was part of the esprit de corps that was at Tuskegee. .  . . He was motivated to see other people like himself, motivated to  aviate and also fight for the country. They all had that common core  experience.''

Brad and his father, Donald's, story is an American story. It is a  story of a father whose dreams were denied and a son who honored his  legacy by breaking barriers of his own. It is a story of persistence,  pride, and progress. Brad captured it best when he said: ``No matter  what the circumstances that you are up against, it is possible to rise  against adversity, just like the airmen did, and succeed in life.''

Their story is a reminder that American progress has also depended on  those who persevered in the face of prejudice. Their story shows that  diversity is not a threat nor a weakness. It is a competitive  advantage. It is a source of national strength. It has driven  innovation, expanded opportunity, and is a common theme throughout our  shared American story.

In a time of rising division, these stories call upon us to remember  who we are at our best: a nation that does not just tolerate  differences but draws power from them.