Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, as of today there are over 1,000 confirmed  COVID-19 cases in 35 States and Washington, DC. The World Health  Organization has now declared COVID-19 a pandemic. Thirty-one people  have died in the United States already because of this virus. This  includes one person in the State of New Jersey. Communities across the  country, and most recently New Jersey, are confronting the possibility  of seeing a spread of this virus. We also know that it is possible  that, due to delays and lack of availability of testing, the actual  number of those infected here in the U.S. is likely higher than what  has been reported. 

  Every day that passes during the spread of this virus--every single  day, every single hour, every single moment is critical. We must act  urgently to slow its spread, to mitigate its impact. We all have a role  to play in fighting the virus, each and every one of us, from our  personal hygiene habits to those of us in positions of authority and  the roles we can play to protect each other and to protect our  communities. One of the most significant ways to do this is actually by  encouraging people to stay home. Members of Congress have self- isolated. For people who have symptoms or who have severe coughs or who  may have been exposed, there is an importance in social isolation,  staying home when you are sick. 

  The challenge for us as a country is that for millions and millions  of Americans this idea of staying home is not an option. Tens of  millions of Americans know that if they stay home, they miss a  paycheck. If they miss a paycheck, that can mean financial devastation  or ruin for their family. 

  We are now the only industrialized nation in the world that doesn't  have paid family sick leave for workers. This is an unwelcome and,  unfortunately, this is a dangerous distinction now in the time of a  global pandemic. This literally punishes people who are struggling,  low-income workers. 

  Right now the choice for millions of Americans is really this: Choose  between your next paycheck and caring for your sick child. Choose  between going to work sick or having to skip a meal. Choose between  your health and well-being or your family's financial security. That  choice, unfortunately, even before this pandemic, was a choice that  many Americans knew--that the people who are handling our food, the  people who work in our restaurants, and the people who work with our  elderly often go to work sick in this country helping the normal flu  and other illnesses spread. In the case of a pandemic which has a  mortality rate of potentially five or ten times that of the flu, this  is, unfortunately, a tragic choice that families are trying to make. 

  According to the National Partnership for Women and Families, 70  percent of the lowest income workers do not have a single paid sick  day. They also report that 81 percent of people working in the food  service industry--let me say that again: 81 percent of people working  in our food service industry--and 75 percent of childcare center  workers do not have access to paid sick leave. This is  disproportionately seen in communities of color. 

  Think about the choice you make. Your child is sick, you are showing  signs but you know if you do not go to work, you will not be able to  make rent, you will not be able to put food on the table, you will miss  a car payment, which means your car will be repossessed. These are  choices that don't just put the families in crisis but they put us all  at risk. 

  The disparity in access to preventive care is also an issue. There  are disparities in access to healthcare and affordable medicine for  people all across our country--millions and millions of people. This is  already before the global pandemic is a health crisis. The continued  and unmitigated spread of COVID-19 could have disastrous impacts on  people in communities that already have this vulnerability. In my  community, where I live, where I hopefully will go home this weekend,  in Newark, NJ, the median income for the census track I live in is  about $14,000, according to the last census. That is $14,000 per  household. I know that public health emergencies can quickly become  economic disasters for those who are already struggling in the economic  margins of our country. 

  As we work together to combat the spread of this virus, we need to  remember that any of us is only as healthy as our most vulnerable  neighbors. In other words, as Martin Luther King said years ago, when  he said ``injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere,'' well,  the virus anywhere is a threat to the health and safety of us  everywhere. 

  That is why we need to pass the bill introduced by Senator Patty  Murray to guarantee 7 days of sick leave for all workers and critically  guarantee 14 days of paid sick leave during public health emergencies.  That is an act of self-interest. 

  Again, I know with over 80 percent of those who handle our food in  restaurants, if those folks do not have paid family leave, they are now  economically incentivized to go to work sick. It can cause a greater  spread of the virus. 

  Paid sick and family leave is a public health and safety issue, plain  and simple. It is about economic justice and economic strength and  security, but it is a public health issue for us all. As we prepare to  fight this virus, we need to do the things that keep our people, our  communities, and our country safe, healthy, and strong. That means  joining with the rest of our industrial nations and having paid family  sick leave. That means opening up and modernizing the Unemployment  Insurance Act, because workers who lose a paycheck because their  factory closes or their restaurant closes or they lost childcare should  be able to access the critical benefits they need to help their family  get by. That means we also expand SNAP benefits for those kids who are  forced to stay at home and from school and may miss meals. 

  To take on this virus, to protect all of our communities, to ensure  the strength of our economy, and to ensure our health, we need to take  a comprehensive and inclusive approach. That means leaving no one  behind, because we are all in this crisis together. 

  I have seen challenges from 9/11 to when I was mayor and we had  Hurricane Sandy hit. It was the strength of our community in that  region around 9/11. It was the strength of that community during that  terrible storm. I remember seeing that the strength was that we stood  up for each other and stood by each other--neighbors opening up their  homes, people lending a hand, people showing sacrifice for each other.  That is the American way. Those values and virtues should be reflected  in our policy. We are weakened and more vulnerable right now because we  do not have commonsense policies that other countries take for granted,  like paid family leave. We in the U.S. Senate should act for the love  of each other and love of country, for the strength and security and  health of our well-being for each other. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT