Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOKER. Madam President, let me just say, right at the top, how  grateful I am to stand on the Senate floor again with Senator Chuck  Grassley. He has been one of the great partners I have had in my short  time in the Senate, and I am honored to have gotten a lot of good work  done and good law passed. I thank him and his entire staff. They were  all tremendous to work with and went above and beyond for us to get  this done at a very quick pace. I thank our colleagues for acting with  the urgency that this issue demands. 

  I am excited that this bill was able to pass, for it will ensure that  the families of first responders who lose their lives to the  coronavirus will be taken care of under the Public Safety Officers'  Benefits Program. We expect now that over 100 of these death benefit  claims will be submitted to the Department of Justice in the coming  days and weeks, and we cannot leave these grieving families to fight  alone for the benefits they need and deserve. As Senator Grassley very  pointedly put it, we hope that the House of Representatives will pick  up this legislation for immediate consideration. 

  While COVID-19 has changed daily life across this country, for so  many of us, I am grateful that my colleague and so many of my  colleagues understand that our firefighters, our EMTs, our police  officers, and our other emergency service personnel continue to put  their lives on the line to protect our communities and have done so at  significant and increased risk to themselves and their families. 

  In hard-hit areas across our Nation, we see first responders stepping  up to enormous risk. Being a first responder during this pandemic is  not a job; it is an all-consuming mission and, unfortunately, a  tremendous sacrifice. It is responding to a call and knowing that, just  by stepping inside someone's home, you are running a high risk of  exposing yourself to the virus. It is wondering whether your personal  protective gear--or PPE--that you have on is enough. In many cases, it  is wondering whether your PPE is even real, with there being so many of  our first responders, unfortunately, using whatever they can scrounge  up. Whether it is the buying of foreign masks that are not designed for  use in the United States or the buying of them from unknown vendors,  they are doing what they can to protect themselves as they go about  their urgent mission.  

  When they remove their PPE, there is a concern with their gloves or  goggles or gown as they take them off piece by piece. They strain to  remember what they touched, washing their hands repeatedly but  wondering and worrying if it is enough. When performing lifesaving  procedures like CPR, which may aerosolize the virus, you hope that the  PPE you are wearing is enough to protect you. These are the daily,  hourly, moment-by-moment concerns our first responders have. 

  Senator Grassley has worked with first responders in so many ways,  and he knows the challenges this brings, from having to meticulously  clean every surface of an ambulance, cleaning the squad houses, police  stations, knowing that the virus could be lingering there, and when  they are going home, undressing in the basement, garage, or even  outside their homes, heading straight into the house for a shower but  still worrying if it is enough to protect their family. 

  We know that many of these first responders aren't actually going  home to their families. They are separating themselves for periods of  time because they live in fear of spreading the disease to a spouse,  child, or parent. There is emotional stress and strain when responding  to a call, doing everything they can to save someone from this virus.  But we know our first responders are often seeing death in areas of the  country at a rate and at levels that they have never experienced  before. This all adds to the fear and anxiety, the worry about their  families, and the worry about their communities. 

  Our first responders are doing what very few of us will ever have to  do. They put their lives, their health, and often the health of their  families on the line to protect their communities. They have always  helped, but now, in the time of coronavirus, their sacrifices are  intensified. 

  The very least we can do is to ensure that they don't have to worry  about what will happen to their loved ones if something should happen  to them. The Public Safety Officers' Benefits Program that Senator  Grassley mentioned was created to provide death and disability benefits  to families of law enforcement officers, firefighters, EMS, and other  first responders who are killed in the line of duty. Their benefits  come in the form of financial support, as well as educational  scholarships, for surviving spouses and children. 

  As Senator Grassley said, it cannot replace the life that is lost,  but it is something that could give comfort to those families and even  to the first responders who themselves are being put in grave danger. 

  Infectious disease is currently covered under the program, though the  officer's family or department is required to provide evidence that the  disease they contracted occurred while on duty. Providing that evidence  can be straightforward, when the first responder came into contact with  a dirty needle, for example, and then was infected by something that  caused their death. 

  The problem with COVID-19 is that it presents an entirely different  challenge. While the Department of Justice works to ensure that  families who have members who are killed by COVID-19 are covered, we  must eliminate the instances when families are asked to prove what is  unprovable, to prove that somehow they caught this while they were in  the hours of their duties. This is why our bill makes urgently needed  changes to the PSOB program to reflect the unique threat that COVID-19  poses to first responders in putting their lives on the line in this  crisis. 

  Many first responders have already made the ultimate sacrifice. I am  so grateful that Senator Grassley mentioned that. In New Jersey alone,  29 first responders have lost their lives to coronavirus just in the  past 7 weeks. We know this crisis is ongoing in our country. 

  The bill that Chuck Grassley and our team wrote creates a presumption  that, if a first responder contracts COVID-19 during this pandemic and  tragically dies, their death will be treated as a line-of-duty death  without the need to affirmatively prove their illness was contracted  while on the job. When this bill is passed by the House and signed by  the President, this presumption will be retroactive to January 1, 2020.  It will last until the end of 2021. The bill ensures that the families  of first responders have the support they need and deserve when they  face unimaginable loss. 

  Twenty-seven years ago, New Jerseyan John Careccia watched as two  EMTs saved his son's life. That same year, he became a volunteer EMT so  that he could pay it forward. Since then, he has worked as an EMT and  served as the chief and training director at the Woodbridge Township  Ambulance and Rescue Squad in Woodbridge, NJ. 

  John passed away on April 17, after contracting COVID-19. He is  survived by his children, Toni, Roseanne, and John, and his 10  grandchildren. 

  John's loved ones shared in his obituary that he ``will be remembered  for his contagious laugh, big heart and greeting you with `hey guy.' He  loved to spend time with his family and always had a story to tell. His  favorite place to eat was the Reo Diner. He always chose to bring a  chocolate cream pie for his dessert contribution to any family  gathering.'' 

  His family asked that in lieu of flowers being sent, ``John would  hope that you will perform an unexpected act of kindness for someone in  his name.'' 

  Charles ``Rob'' Roberts joined the Glen Ridge, NJ, Police Department  in 2000. He lived in Glen Ridge with his wife, Alice. Together they  raised their three children, Shea, Natalie, and Gavin, right there in  Glen Ridge. 

  Officer Roberts contracted COVID-19 in the line of duty in April and  was rushed to Mountainside Medical Center after being resuscitated in  his home by his fellow officers and members of the volunteer ambulance  squad. On May 11, Officer Roberts passed away at the age of 45. 

  Last week, hundreds of residents of his town of Glen Ridge stood on  their front lawns and sidewalks to pay tribute to Officer Roberts'  life, his service, his love of community and family. 

  In a New York Times article published after his passing, many of  Officer Roberts' colleagues and neighbors shared stories about his  kindness and his calm demeanor in the face of challenges. Quoting from  the article:  

       There was the couple who remembered how calm he was when he       helped deliver their baby in their kitchen. 

       There was the older woman, forever grateful for the gentle       way he held her hand when she broke her hip and they waited       for an ambulance. And there was the father who struggled with       a difficult son and remembered how Mr. Roberts looked him in       the eye and reassured him that his boy was a good kid.  

  Officer Roberts' father shared at his memorial that he ``wanted to  make others happy.' 

  Israel ``Izzy'' Tolentino served in the U.S. Marine Corps before  becoming a volunteer EMT and then a firefighter for the City of  Passaic, NJ. Izzy contracted COVID-19 in the line of duty and on March  31 passed away at the age of 33, the first New Jersey firefighter to be  killed by the virus. 

  Israel is survived by his wife, Maria, and their two children,  daughter Ailani, age 9, whom he called his princess and his son Israel,  age 7, whom he called his best friend. 

  I would like to share a few words from an NJ.com article published in  the wake of Izzy's passing.  

       Israel Tolentino was born to be a firefighter. 

       It wasn't out of love of the uniform, though Tolentino       beamed with pride everyday he walked out wearing the Passaic       Fire Department emblem. It wasn't even out of a mountain of       bravery or a penchant for running towards the flames. 

       It was, his wife Maria Vasquez said, because he couldn't       help but be selfless. 

       ``It fulfilled his urge to serve others,'' said Vazquez,       his wife of more than 10 years. ``He was so selfless. It drew       me closer to him. It drew everyone closer to him.''  

  These are only 3 among the 29 heroes just from New Jersey. There are  countless more first responders across the country who lost their lives  in responding to this crisis. Some of their names we know, and some we  will learn in the weeks and months to come. What we do know is, we owe  it, as a nation, to their families and to the departments they served  to be there for those families and to be there for those children.  Their families and the families of all first responders across the  country who have lost loved ones to this virus deserve to be taken care  of. For their sake, I hope the House of Representatives will act  quickly to pass this legislation and that the President will sign it  into law.  

  Our first responders in this unprecedented global pandemic did not  hesitate or equivocate. They did their duty. They stood up and faced  danger. They answered the call. We now must answer the call, and we  must have their backs just as they had ours. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT