Letter to Dr. Robert Redfield, Director for the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention - Sherrill, Menendez, and Pascrell Lead Members Calling on CDC to Establish System for Prioritization of COVID-19 Tests


Dear Dr. Redfield:

We write today to urge you to establish an official coding or labeling system for the prioritizationof COVID-19 tests. While some diagnostic labs have already established a process for providersto mark specimens for prioritization, laboratories need an overall standardized process to ensureCOVID-19 tests are a priority. Our hospitals and health care providers are spending precioustime and personal protective equipment (PPE) as they wait several days for COVID-19 testingresults to arrive from commercial laboratories.

As you know, symptomatic patients of unknown status must be treated as COVID-19 positive.Inpatients of unknown status often spend several days in isolated negative pressure spaces, andhealth care staff must continue to wear PPE when interacting with these patients. The inability todistinguish COVID-19 positive patients from negative patients for days on end is a tremendousburden on the PPE supply as well as physical space in isolation areas. Supply and space aredwindling, ultimately putting the health of both patients and providers at risk.

Furthermore, we are now facing a crisis in hospital morgues. If a patient dies before receiving aresult, he/she must remain in the hospital morgue until that result is returned. Our hospitals arenow telling us they will need additional capacity in the morgue as the pandemic continues.

The emergence of testing centers in our state is putting even more pressure on commerciallaboratories, despite their best efforts to increase capacity to keep pace with the pandemic.

Given the insurmountable challenge of laboratory capacity being outpaced by the number ofcases, it is essential to establish a prioritization framework for both our health care providers andlaboratories. The CDC recently established guidance for health care providers and testingfacilities to prioritize who gets tested for COVID-19; while this is a great first step, health care providers and testing centers still lack a way to communicate to laboratories the priority level ofeach sample. There is currently no standardized way for health care providers and testingcenters to label, code, or describe the samples that are sent to commercial laboratories. Thelack of this information prevents commercial laboratories from prioritizing, and compounds thestrain on our local hospitals, healthcare providers, and PPE supply.

We urge you to collaborate with laboratories in establishing a coding or labeling system toindicate which samples are which priority. Doing so would provide laboratories with astandardized process to obtain the information they need to process samples according topriority level.

We look forward to your prompt reply on this very urgent matter.