Letter to Kenneth Cuccinelli, Senior Official of the Citizenship and Immigration Services - Duckworth Presses USCIS for Answers on Accessibility Policies


Dear Mr. Cuccinelli,

In September 2019, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced that it hadreinstated consideration of non-military deferred action requests, a form of prosecutorialdiscretion by which USCIS can permit individuals and their families with compellingcircumstances to remain in the United States without fear of imminent removal. Many of theserequests are made by individuals with major medical illness, and their families, seeking toremain in the United States while receiving treatment. The USCIS decision to reinstateconsideration of non-military deferred action requests was a reversal of its abrupt position onemonth earlier to halt consideration of these requests. We write to express our concern that theagency has not in fact re-committed to the full and fair consideration of non-military deferredaction requests, and to seek information about USCIS's current policy.

Non-military deferred action is a subset of "deferred action" -- "an act of administrativeconvenience to the government which gives some immigration cases lower priority."1 Throughthese requests children and families suffering from severe medical conditions such as cancer,epilepsy, cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, and cystic fibrosis have sought deferred actionbased on compelling medical circumstances (commonly referred to as "medical deferredaction"). In many cases, the treatments these individuals have received while in the UnitedStates have proven lifesaving.

But in August 2019, without any public notice, USCIS suddenly ceased adjudicating all nonmilitary deferred action requests, including requests for "medical deferred action." At the time,USCIS provided no public guidance about its decision to summarily reject applications for nonmilitary deferred action. Rather, applicants from across the country received form letters fromUSCIS denying their requests. The letters explained that, if applicants did not leave the United States within 33 days, they could be "removed from the United States and found ineligible for afuture visa or other U.S. immigration benefit."

These unexpected summary denials understandably caused anguish and fear for families whoseloved ones are receiving treatment for potentially fatal diseases, especially those for whom lifesaving treatment outside of the United States is unavailable. In response to widespread publicbacklash to the cruelty of the USCIS decision -- including during a congressional hearing and incorrespondence from us and dozens of our colleagues5 -- the agency announced that it wasreversing course. In September 2019, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announcedthat USCIS would resume consideration of non-military deferred action requests on adiscretionary, case-by-case basis, and would re-evaluate applications summarily denied inAugust.6

We welcomed the DHS announcement that it had reversed this policy. But it is now unclear thatUSCIS is actually following through on it.

The Philadelphia Inquirer recently reported on a "spate of [medical deferred action] denials"coming out of the USCIS Philadelphia field office.7 In one case highlighted in the Inquirerreport, USCIS denied requests from the parents of a two-year-old boy with cancer. The youngboy's best chance for survival depends on continuing to receive chemotherapy and care at St.Christopher's Hospital for Children in Philadelphia. Returning to Mexico with his parents --who remain his primary caretakers -- may be "[his] death sentence," according to the child'smother.

Immigration attorneys from across the country have contacted our offices with similar stories.Although USCIS has approved a handful of applications, it has denied or left pendingindefinitely many others -- both first-time requests and renewals. Moreover, some applicantswho received summary denials last summer have received no notification from USCIS that theagency has reopened their cases.

These reports are deeply concerning. We fear that USCIS has renewed consideration of medicaldeferred action requests in name only. As the seriousness of the coronavirus disease 2019(COVID-19) pandemic deepens, medical deferred action is as important as ever. People with chronic or underlying health conditions are at greater risk from COVID-19. The United Statescannot in good conscience force seriously sick or vulnerable individuals to travel, which alsoincreases their risks.10 And the pandemic has undoubtedly exacerbated the inability of patients'home countries to provide medical care.

USCIS has rightly, temporarily closed its local field offices to in-person services in order toprevent spreading COVID-19. However, while in-person services are reduced, it is alsoimportant to ensure that USCIS stakeholders have accessible means of making emergencyrequests with the local offices. Further, we believe USCIS must proactively maximize its use ofdeferred action during this global pandemic. Accordingly, we request that USCIS provideapplicants with accessible means to apply for deferred action by email, and issue confirmation ofreceipt within 3 business days. This will enable individuals to obtain critical services in theseincredibly tumultuous times.

Compounding our concerns, DHS recently responded to a request we made more than sixmonths ago, and in it, indicated that USCIS is "unable to provide [the] formal data" we requestedas "tracking and data are not in place for non-military deferred action requests."11 We find thisrevelation extremely troubling. USCIS has stated that it receives approximately 1,000 deferredaction cases annually, and as previously noted, summarily closed all non-military cases lastAugust.12 These statements and actions seem to contradict the assertion that USCIS has nomechanism to track these cases. Further, given the life-and-death nature of many medicaldeferred action requests and the array of stakeholders demanding greater transparency regardingthis discretionary determination, we would expect USCIS to have begun collecting this data. Wetherefore ask that you reevaluate the assertion that DHS is unable to provide data on non-militarydeferred action requests, and if necessary, immediately rectify this oversight. We also ask thatyou respond to the following questions by May 1, 2020:

1. What procedures are in place for the submission and adjudication of non-military deferredaction requests for the duration of the coronavirus pandemic?2. How many non-military deferred action requests (excluding Service Center requests) hasUSCIS received from Fiscal Year 2015 to date, and how many has USCIS approved? Pleasebreak down the requests by fiscal year, and field office, and identify the number of theserequests that pertain to medical need.3. What is USCIS's current policy with respect to deferred action, within both the medical needand other contexts? Please provide us with any directives, instructions, policies, memos, or guidance, written or communicated by any other means, relating to the current policy ondeferred action.4. Since purportedly reinstating consideration of non-military deferred action requests onSeptember 19, 2019, how many such requests has USCIS received, approved, and denied?a. How many applicants requested deferred action based on medical need? How manyapplicants requested deferred action on other bases? Please provide this informationdisaggregated by adjudication outcome.b. How many were initial requests for deferred action? How many were renewalapplications? Please provide this information disaggregated by adjudication outcome.c. Has USCIS issued guidance related to the relief period? Who determines the periodof relief?d. Regarding approved deferred action requests, please provide disaggregated dataindicating the period of relief.e. Regarding pending deferred action requests, please provide the dates on whichUSCIS first received them and by which USCIS anticipates ruling on them.5. Have all applicants whose applications USCIS summarily denied under its prior policyreceived notice that USCIS will reopen their cases? If not, why not? How many applicantsare awaiting this notification?

Thank you in advance for your attention to these requests.

Sincerely,