Letter to the Hon. Betsy DeVos, Secretary of Education - Menendez Leads NJ Delegation Push for Trump Admin to Swiftly Disburse COVID-19 Higher Ed Funds


Dear Secretary DeVos, 

On behalf of the State of New Jersey, we respectfully request that the Department of Education work swiftly to award funding appropriated under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act for eligible institutions of higher education as they continue to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Higher Education Emergency Relief Act authorized within, allocates approximately $14 billion in funding to institutions of higher education to address the varying needs colleges and universities have endured due to the coronavirus.

Colleges and universities in New Jersey and across the country are experiencing significant and severe difficulties caused by the ongoing pandemic--challenges which are unlikely to subside in the near future. The crisis is causing substantial disruption to both students and institutional operations and finances. While the CARES Act begins to address the funding shortfalls and other challenges facing students and institutions, it is likely that a significant need still remains. 

The Department must act swiftly to make these enacted funds available so that colleges and universities can continue to operate and effectively respond to the ongoing crisis. Further, it is critical for the Department to provide institutions of higher education with as much flexibility and clarity as possible for distributing these funds on campus, both for emergency grants to students and to help cover institutional refunds, expenses, and other lost revenues, consistent with the provisions contained in the CARES Act.

Colleges and universities in New Jersey are at the forefront of the research and development of the testing, treatments, and vaccines for COVID-19. With the second most confirmed COVID-19 cases in the nation and a strict stay-at-home order, students and their families are facing severe economic strains and have an even greater need for assistance. The assistance provided in the CARES Act is vital to New Jersey's students, staff, faculty, and researchers. Its swift implementation is essential not only to New Jersey, but to all states and higher education institutions across the nation.

Thank you for your immediate attention to this crucial matter. We look forward to working with you to maximize the benefits of the CARES Act through quick and orderly disbursement of funding to our students and campuses.