Letter to the Hon. Donald J. Trump, President of the United States - Norcross, NJ Congressional Delegation Call on President to Issue Major Disaster Declaration for NJ due to COVID-19


Dear President Trump:

Governor Murphy has formally requested a Major Disaster Declaration in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  We are writing to urge you to approve this request to ensure New Jersey has the resources it needs to respond to this growing crisis.

New Jersey is one of the most impacted states with more than 2,800 confirmed cases as of the date of this letter.  Governor Murphy has taken unprecedented actions to mitigate the transmission of COVID-19.  New Jersey has activated its State Emergency Operations Center (SEOC) to take all necessary actions to curb the pandemic, which has received an overwhelming amount of requests for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) that our state has not been able to keep up with.  This shortfall will jeopardize the ability of healthcare professionals, law enforcement and public safety officials to do their job safely and effectively.  Our state has established two mobile testing sites and is looking to create additional sites but currently lacks the PPE and test kits necessary to meet growing demand.  While New Jersey's actions have been robust, we anticipate that our state is not through the worst part of this pandemic. 

We ask that you approve Governor Murphy's request, which would make our residents eligible for FEMA Individual Assistance (IA).  Federal funds will allow New Jersey to provide Disaster Unemployment Insurance, Childcare Assistance and Disaster Supplemental Nutrition and Assistance.  These programs, along with others that Governor Murphy officially requested, will help equip New Jersey with the necessary resources to respond to the immediate health pandemic and its corresponding economic impacts.

In addition, we call for the approval of Governor Murphy's request for FEMA Public Assistance programs.  Public Assistance for Emergency Protective Measures, Direct Federal Assistance, and Community Disaster Loans will mitigate the financial burden imposed on state and local governments.  The federal government needs to provide support for our state and municipalities who have been frontline responders during this difficult time.

We urge you to promptly approve Governor Murphy's request a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of New Jersey. We appreciate your consideration of the request.