Norcross Announces More $2M to Expand COVID-19 Testing at South Jersey Health Centers


U.S. Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01) today announced $2,082,226 in federal funding for South Jersey as part of a total of $11,127,936 for the state of New Jersey from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to expand COVID-19 testing at Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) across the state. FQHCs are trusted providers for many in lower-income communities who need access to health care services.

"In order to safely begin reopening South Jersey and the rest of the state, we must increase and expand testing," said Congressman Norcross. "Testing is critical in mitigating the spread of the virus and protecting our residents and communities from the spread. I will continue fighting for federal funding to increase testing capabilities and protect South Jersey families and workers."

South Jersey FQHC's will receive:

$905,944 to the Southern Jersey Family Medical Centers, Inc.                      $674,164 to CAMcare Health Corporation$318,604 to Osborn Family Health Center, Inc$183,514 to Project H.O.P.E"Our state and nation cannot safely and responsibly begin to lift stay-at-home orders and reopen our economy until we expand our testing capabilities," said Senator Bob Menendez. "This funding will allow our FQHCs to continue caring for the most vulnerable in our communities and ensure they can test their patients. I appreciate Gov. Murphy's leadership during this difficult time and will continue working to secure the federal resources our state needs to combat the virus, support our families and small businesses and boost our economy."

"Expanding New Jersey's testing capabilities is not only critical to the health and safety of our residents, but also to getting our economy moving again," said Senator Cory Booker. "Our community health centers provide vital health care services to some of our most underserved communities and play an important role in our larger effort to contain the spread of this virus and protecting all New Jerseyans."