Racism


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, I rise today with difficulty. I admit I am  like so many other Americans who are hurting right now and frustrated  right now and feeling a torrent of emotions that I wish I could say it  was the first time I felt like this. 

  I want to begin my remarks in a different way because the names that  we are hearing shouted on streets--George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna  Taylor--are like so many other names of people that we did not know as  a Nation. They were not household names. Their names now are mixed into  names that we have heard throughout my entire lifetime. But their  names--and the way we say them mixed with horror and sadness and  tragedy--it does not speak to their beauty, their humanity, the  fullness, the texturedness of their lives. I just want to say that  Ahmaud Arbery was a man, and he was 25 years old when he was murdered.  He went out jogging where he was hunted by two White men who walked  free for weeks after killing him. 

  This man, this child of God, his loved ones talked to his humanity.  They said he was a loving son, a brother, an uncle, a nephew, a cousin,  and a friend. He was humble. He was kind. He was  well mannered. He always made sure that he never departed his loved  ones without saying ``I love you.'' 

  Breonna Taylor, before we knew her name--an extraordinary American,  an extraordinary servant--she was a first responder. In a pandemic,  like so many of our first responders, she showed a courage and humble  heroism. She was 26 years old when she was shot and killed by police,  asleep in her home. She was an emergency medical technician in  Louisville. 

  Her loved ones, too, shared the truth of her spirit. They said  Breonna Taylor was full of life. She loved social gatherings with her  friends and especially her family. She loved life and all it had to  offer. She continued to find ways to better herself and all of the  people around her. 

  George Floyd, he was a man that was raised in Texas. He was a Houston  man. To his friends and loved ones, he was known as Floyd. In high  school--I know this--he was an athlete, playing both basketball and  football. He played the position I played; he was a tight end. He went  on to play basketball at South Florida State College, a pathway I know  to college ball. His girlfriend called him ``an angel that was sent to  us on Earth.'' His family remembered him as being family oriented,  loving, and godly. 

  Floyd was a loving father. He was a devoted brother. He was a  partner, and he was a friend. He is dead at 46 years old, on May 25,  2020, when he was restrained, pinned by his neck, and killed by law  enforcement officers. 

  The killings of George Floyd, of Breonna Taylor, of Ahmaud Arbery are  singular in their pain, are singular in their particular details in the  anguish and the horror, but this is a terror that is familiar. It is a  fear that is baked now, cemented into our culture. 

  For so many Americans, especially Black Americans, this has not just  not been a tough few weeks. It has not just been an emotional time  because of what we are seeing, the protests all around the country.  This has been a tough life. This is the story of day after day after  day that punctuates our consciousness only when someone captures on  videotape what is a regular part of the fabric of our country. 

  We have a long and wretched and disturbing history in this country of  Black people being murdered by law enforcement. Our systems of  accountability, our systems of transparency, our ability to end this  has improved impotent and feeble. These killings for so many Black  Americans today are searing reminders that Black people in this  country, as I have heard from dozens of people in my life, as we hear  from people on our media, that this could have been me; that this even  would have been me in the same circumstances. To hear people at all  stations of life--African-Americans saying--``I am alive,'' but  questioning for how long, slipping into the savage reality of despair  for your life and your safety. 

  To be Black in America is to know that a misunderstanding, that an  implicit racial bias, that an interaction that should be everyday and  routine can become a moment where your life is turned upside down,  where your body becomes broken or when you are killed. It is a common  experience. This has been a stretch where bird watching in a park, to  jogging in your neighborhood, to going to a corner store, it is a  jarring reminder that is reinforced by personal experiences that it  could be you. 

  I was born to two civil rights activist parents. I was a big kid. I  was over 6 feet by the time I was in seventh or eighth grade, and it  was a time in my life that is a coming of age for so many people and  cultures across our Nation. But something began happening to me in that  period, and it was marked by the fear of my elders. Family members with  jarring personal stories for a preteen or a teen would tell me what it  meant to be Black, to be male in America. They were instilling fear in  me as a survival mechanism. They were trying to make me aware of my  surroundings.  

  I have difficult memories of trips to the malls with elder Black men  in my family and being lectured about what I couldn't do, what I  shouldn't do, and what the consequences could be. I remember that talk  with my parents where I tried to joke about it, but they got chillingly  angry with me about what it meant to have a driver's license in America  and what could happen to me. They told me stories of friends, of family  members, of others and their experiences with the police. 

  I spent those years of 12 and 13 in an America in the '70s and '80s  where the words of my parents and elders were backed up with tragic and  terrible stories of their experiences in generations before and were  reinforced by my own experiences: being followed by mall security  guards, being accused or stopped, being looked at with suspicion, and  experience after experience after experience with police. 

  I remember as a college student--and it all came to a head where I  wrote a column in Stanford's newspaper: Why have I lost control? I  remember that night writing that column like it was yesterday. I was so  overcome with emotion and rage, and I would like to submit for the  Record that column and read right now pieces of what I wrote that night  that when I look at young men on the streets of America today and I see  their anger and I see their rage, it brings me back, not to that  moment, but to the own feelings that have churned within me for years. 

  I will read from the column: Why have I lost control?  

       How can I write, when I have lost control of my emotions?       Not guilty. Not guilty. Not guilty. 

       Not shocked. Why not? 

       Turn off the engine! Put your keys, driver's license,       registration and insurance on the hood now! Put your hands on       the steering wheel and don't even think of moving. 

       Five police cars. Six officers surrounded my car, guns       ready. Thirty minutes I sat, praying and shaking, only       interrupted by the command, ``I said, don't move!'' 

       Finally, ``Everything checks out, you can go.'' 

       Sheepishly I asked, why. 

       ``Oh, you fit the description of a car thief.'' 

       Not guilty. Not shocked. Why not. 

       In the jewelry store, they lock the case when I walk in. 

       In the shoe store, they help the White man who walks in       after me. 

       In the shopping mall, they follow me--in the Stanford       shopping mall. Last month I turned and faced their       surreptitious security: ``Catch any thieves today?'' 

       Not guilty. Not shocked. Why not? 

       I am a black man. I am 6 foot 3 inches tall and 230 pounds,       just like Rodney King. Do I scare you? Am I a threat? Does       your fear justify your actions? Twelve people [a jury]       believed it did. 

       Black male: Guilty until proven innocent. 

       Reactions to my kind are justified. Scrutiny is justified.       Surveillance is justified. Search is justified. Fifty-six       blows justified. 

       Justice? Dear God. 

       I graduated from Stanford last June. I was elated. I was       one of four presidents of my class--I was proud. In the fall,       I received a Rhodes Scholarship. I approached arrogance. 

       But late one night, as I walked the streets of Palo Alto,       as the police car slowed down while passing me, as his steely       glare met me, I realized that to him and to so many others I       am and [may] always be--  

  And I substitute now--       --I am and may always be the [N-word]: Guilty until proven       innocent. 

       I am struggling to be articulate, loquacious, positive,       constructive, but for the first time in so long, I have lost       control of my emotions: Rage, frustration, bitterness,       animosity, exasperation, sadness. Emotions once suppressed,       emotions once channeled, now are let loose. Why? 

       Not guilty. Not shocked. 

       Poverty, alienation, estrangement, continuously aggravated       by racism, overt and institutional. Can you leave your       neighborhood without being stopped? Can you get a loan from       your bank? Can you be trusted at your store? 

       Can you get an ambulance dispatched to your neighborhood?       Can you get the police to come to your house? Can you get an       education at your school? Can you get a job? Can you stay       alive past 25? Can you get respect? Can you be heard? 

       No! Not until someone catches on video one small glimpse of       your everyday reality and even then, can you get justice? 

       Why have I lost control of my emotions? Why do my hands       shake as I write? Tonight, I have no answers. 

       Dear God, help us to help ourselves before we become our       own undoing.  

  That was three decades ago. That was me as an early 20-something,  writing about another one of those names that has become household. We  remember it decades later. I wish I could stand here and tell you that  much has changed for the experience of that young Black man. I wish I  could tell you that that was the end of names becoming household words,  but it has not. 

  This is a cycle of violence in our country; these spasms jerk us from  our comfort and pull us into the world that is faced by so many  African-Americans and then we go back. So many of us go back to what is  now normal in America, what has been normal in America. 

  This cycle--I hear people now talking about the violence, the  rioters. I condemn it in the same way that the other  99 Members are. It is awful, it is despicable, it is contrary to the  aims of this Nation and the movements of our past. But to condemn the  violence of those out there doing such awful, destructive,  condemnation-worthy actions, but to only condemn them and not to  condemn the fullness of that cycle of violence because there is  violence going on even when we don't see it in the streets. 

  Peace, even, is not just the absence of violence; it is the presence  of justice. This is an unjust cycle in our country that we seem to be  stuck in that makes the names of children like Tamir Rice household  names. It is connected with the violence that is pervasive in our  Nation that demands all of us to speak out against with the same fervor  and enthusiasm and energy that people are condemning the violence we  are seeing in America today. To fail to do that leaves us in a state of  imbalance. To fail to condemn the totality of violence in our country  leaves us far from the beloved community. We need to somehow find a way  out of that cycle. 

  There is violence in our Nation seen and our environment, that we  still are a Nation where a person's race is the single biggest factor  of whether they live near a toxic site or not. Ask the mother of a  child who drank lead water for months and months and has had their  brain permanently damaged if that was not violence. It is violence to  not have access to quality care. Ask the woman who has lost her child  because of lack of prenatal care. Ask the Black woman in America, who  today is four times more likely to die, herself, in childbirth if this  isn't a violence in our society that needs condemnation. It is violence  we see from our healthcare system, to our criminal justice system, to  environmental injustice, to the denial, as one author says, of the  savage inequalities within our education systems. 

  It is why so many Black Americans scream out: Do you see me? I do not  have your equal justice under law. Do you see me? I do not have justice  for all. Do you see me? I matter. I matter. Black lives matter. Black  bodies matter. America, I love you. Do you see me? Do you know my  experiences? Do you see the failings of our ideals? 

  The murder of a Black man by multiple cops who knew they were being  filmed in broad daylight is not the extent of the problem of racism in  America. It is a final and deadly manifestation of that racism of a  nation where everything about us is interwoven, it is interconnected,  and we are in relationship with each other. 

  This ideal that we are one Nation is not a quaint ideal. It is an  inescapable fact of American society. The pain and the hurt of our  brothers or sisters is our pain. I can show you that economically. I  can show you that by every ideology that is expressed here on the floor  of this Senate. 

  The cycle of violence has to stop, the cycle of wretchedness and  hurt. Our ancestors scream out at us now. Millions of Americans scream  out right now, and I know we have an obligation in this body to do  something. 

  I have heard words from people on both sides of the aisle speaking  toward the injustice of racism that exists in our country. I have heard  words. But for generations what they sought from this body--greater men  and women that any of us--what they sought on the streets, what they  sought in front of the White House, from Alice Paul, the first person  to protest out there, was legislative changes. That is what they  sought. 

  The march on Washington. Disability activists were throwing  themselves out in front of buses. They fought for tangible legislation. 

  Martin Luther King said:  

       While it may be true that morality cannot be legislated,       behavior can be regulated. It may be true that the law cannot       change the heart but it can restrain the heartless. It may be       true that the law cannot make a man love me but it can keep       him from lynching me.  

  It is on us. The cries for justice in the street, it is on us. The  pain being made manifest for all America to see, it is on us. Those who  have been comfortable for too long are now pulled from their seats as  they stare at a television that shows them a window into a nation that  is not at rest. It is on us in this body to do something, to change the  law. We can do that. 

  In the coming days, Senator Kamala Harris and I have partnered  together on a comprehensive police reform proposal that takes into  account the incredible work of Congressional Black Caucus members, many  of them who have been in this congressional body much longer than I  have. They have been working on these issues much longer than I have.  It takes the work of so many people in both of the bodies that make up  our Congress and pulls them together. 

  There are so many injustices, but this comprehensive package is about  police accountability. It is an answer to the pain, to the hurt, and  the agony. It speaks to the young children whose parents right now are  teaching them fear as an art of survival, teaching them not to be a  threat to anyone who could kill you, to try to shrink from the fullness  of your body so that they don't take your body, they don't harm your  body, and they don't kill your body. It creates accountability and  transparency and practices that can repair police community relations.  It can give faith back to those who have lost it. It can rescue people  who are slipping into a deeper despair about this Nation and perhaps  cobble together some semblance of hope.  

  This is a moment in American history where we must recognize the hurt  and the pain and do something about it where this body that has so  nobly acted in past years to pass legislation--the 1964 Civil Rights  Act, the 1965 Voting Rights Act, and the spasms of 1968. Fair housing  laws were passed. 

  I said I come to you today torn up inside. As so many Americans, the  soil of our souls have been plowed up in pain, hoping for seeds of  possibility, hoping that somehow, borne out of agony and despair, can  sprout a new harvest for America. 

  As a man who believes in this country and believes in the ideals of  hope and love and faith and charity and kindness, I want to confess to  you something, that right now hope is essential, but it is not enough.  I confess to you, right now, words of kindness and grace are essential  to America, but they are not enough right now. I confess to you even  something that is hard to admit, that the spirit of courage and grit  being shown by people on the streets--not in the comfortable hallways  of the Senate--who in one of the most noble traditions of our Nation  are protesting, are petitioning their government, are peacefully  gathering, I want to tell you, right now, that that is not enough. It  is essential, but it is not enough. These things are necessary, but not  sufficient. 

  So how? How do we go forward? In Washington, the people talk about  being so savagely broken. How? At a time that I worry about King's  ideal of a beloved community, how do we create that out of this moment?  I do not know. 

  But I want to tell you this: When I find myself disturbed and sad,  when I find my heart that, on most days, has an invincible hope for our  Nation, I turn to our history, but I don't need to turn too far. 

  I know the heroes whose names are hailed from generations past. I  don't know how Harriet Tubman, Ella Baker, and Fannie Lou Hamer  mustered their strength and courage. They were marvelous magicians that  could turn the most wretched of times into progress. 

  So at a time that I need hope, I tell you I turn to the spiritual  alchemists of our day. I met them. I have been to a church in South  Carolina where White supremacists stormed in and murdered nine blessed  souls. I have watched on a TV screen this spiritual alchemist who  somehow turned the most unimaginable grief into forgiveness and a  lesson for our Nation. 

  I visited a church just a few months ago in Tulsa, OK. It was the  last structure that was left standing out of one of the greatest acts  of domestic terrorism we had ever seen--the torching, the bombing of  Black Wall Street--and I met a pastor there, Pastor Turner. He is a  great spiritual alchemist, who somehow turned the only remaining  structure--after horrific violence--he somehow turned it into a symbol  of struggle. 

  I have talked to mothers of the movement. These are these great Black  women whose sons were murdered and are names we now know. I learned  from them this unbelievable demonstration of spiritual alchemy, that  somehow they turned their tragedies into a grit and guts and a  determination to never  stop fighting as long as they have breath in their body and blood in  their veins. They will fight for this Nation, even when it so savagely  lets them down. 

  I get strength from those in our Nation today who demonstrated  alchemy greater than any power I can possess, that somehow, in our  darkest of times, we still are a Nation that can find a way to ignite  the world, in a Nation where so many people have been so thoroughly  failed, that they can still manifest the ability to fight for the  ideals that have been denied for them. They are the ones right now  whose spirit we all must try to summon. 

  We will come up short, but we must try to summon it. It is the only  way forward that, somehow, this Nation that shares one spirit can find  a way to put enough indivisible into this one nation under God, that  somehow this great country can find a way in this time of our  generation's great crisis--that we, like those before us, those  magicians, those alchemists of love and spirit and sweat and struggle-- that out of this time of crisis, we can make this Nation truly one of  liberty and justice for all. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT