Sherrill, Booker Introduce Women Veterans Appreciation Day Resolutions


Today, Representative Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11), Vice Chair of the Servicewomen and Women Veterans Caucus, announced the introduction of a House resolution designating June 12th as Women Veterans Appreciation Day to recognize the service and sacrifices of women veterans and bring attention to the unique needs of women veterans. Representative Sherrill's resolution (H.Res. 1000) is a companion to S.Res. 616, introduced by Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ). Senator Booker and Representative Sherrill marked the day by hosting a virtual roundtable with women veterans across New Jersey.

"Women have proudly served our nation since the Revolutionary War and now make up almost 20 percent of our Armed Forces," said Representative Sherrill. "Congress has made great strides in addressing the disparities in care, recognition, and benefits that our women veterans receive, but there is more work to be done. Designating June 12th as Women Veterans Appreciation Day will help bring attention to the unique needs of women veterans in the United States and to recognize their contributions to our country. I'm proud to work with Senator Booker again this year to urge Congress to mirror the work of states around the country and to designate June 12th as Women Veterans Appreciation Day."

"From serving as combat helicopter pilots in Afghanistan to disguising themselves as male soldiers during the American Revolution and Civil War, women veterans have made numerous contributions throughout our nation's history and continue to do so today," said Senator Booker. "Designating June 12 as Women Veterans Appreciation Day is a fitting way to honor and celebrate women veterans' service and sacrifice."

On June 12, 1948, President Harry S. Truman signed the Women's Armed Services Integration Act, allowing women to serve as regular members of the military. Several states currently recognize June 12th as Women Veterans Appreciation Day, including New Jersey. The Sherrill and Booker resolutions mirror the New Jersey Women Veterans Appreciation Day resolution signed into law last year. Representative Sherrill originally introduced the Women Veterans Appreciation Day resolution in 2019.