SMART Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOKER. Madam President, I thank Senators Cassidy and Menendez  for leading on this extraordinary bill and the broad bipartisan support  that it has. 

  I know Senator Menendez and I have both been mayors in our  communities, and when there is no crisis, we know intimately the  challenges that so many of our public servants face. In times when we  do not see pandemics, our firefighters put their lives on the line, our  police officers put their lives on the line, and our teachers  extraordinarily work above and beyond the call of duty. Indeed, our  communities are strong because of these dedicated public workers. 

  At a time of crisis, we see that our teachers are rising to the  challenge, working to keep their students engaged, even though they are  now miles apart. I hear stories of teachers riding around, going out to  visit students, keeping their distance but ensuring that the students  get the support they need.  

  Our firefighters are out there now, putting their lives even more at  a risk, putting themselves on the line to help their communities. 

  Police officers are answering calls without hesitation, despite the  great risk that puts on them and their families when they go home. 

  So many of our other public servants are working diligently to keep  our communities running, to keep our States strong to meet a crisis,  and to try to help folks stay healthy and stay safe. Without  hesitation, across New Jersey--across all of our 50 States--we are  seeing more clearly the heroic actions of people who are leading in a  time of crisis. 

  But as was said by my colleagues, across the country, States are  being hit by significantly declining revenues and extraordinarily  increasing costs. We are already seeing early projections, as discussed  by my colleagues. Even independent rating agencies like Moody's are  talking about hundreds of billions of dollars in deficits for our State  and local governments. 

  My own Governor has estimated New Jersey's protracted gap caused by  those declining revenues--those extremely rising costs--to be somewhere  between $20 and $30 billion. 

  Due to these shortfalls, without immediate action from Congress,  State and local governments will be forced to make deep cuts to public  services, including laying off folks who are not just essential in word  but who often make the difference between life and death, safety or  crisis in our communities. These would be the workers who would be laid  off at a time when we need them the most. 

  Not only do we need these vital public servants on the job,  protecting our communities, educating our kids, and supporting our  neighbors, but cuts like these actually will aggravate and deepen the  overall economic crisis facing our country. Independent rating agencies  and others say that cuts like these will actually prolong our economic  crisis and the time needed for recovery. This is not the time for half  measures. This is the time to act at the scale that the crisis demands. 

  The Federal Government needs to be providing a robust, accurately  tailored response to this crisis by funding our State and local  governments in a way that prioritizes those areas that have been hit  the hardest. The SMART Act does exactly that. It is a bipartisan bill.  It is thoughtful. It is tailored narrowly to fit this crisis. 

  The SMART Act is a commonsense approach that will make sure that the  help is going to where it is needed most--to our hardest hit  communities and States--and to help ensure that those workers whom we  hail with our words--firefighters, police officers, and teachers--we  support with our actions, as well, for they are out there right now  supporting us. 

  No State should go bankrupt fighting this virus, because of this  virus. No State should go bankrupt because we in the Federal Government  refuse to support them. No essential public worker should lose their  job because of this crisis and because Congress was not stepping up to  lead through it. 

  There is no time to waste. As was said by my colleague, we have folks  in my State who are putting together their budgets right now. As we  heard from my colleague from Louisiana, they are already accounting for  the need to make cuts. We have already seen hundreds of thousands of  public workers being laid off. The delay has costs, and when you are  talking about first responders, the delays can have costs that are hard  to imagine. 

  I encourage my colleagues to see this as what it is. It is an  accurately tailored response. It is a bipartisan bill. It is what our  Nation needs right now. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to work  to get this to the floor so that we can vote on it, pass it, and get it  through Congress to the President's desk, so we can avoid the storm  that we are in and, ultimately, overcome the severity of its ravages 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT