Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 35


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Harris for her  words, and I want to thank her as the lead Senator on this bill. I want  to thank her for her partnership and leadership. I also want to thank  Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, who has shown extraordinary  commitment to this legislation as well. On the House side, I want to  thank   Bobby Rush, former Black Panther. I want to thank him for his  leadership and generational commitment to racial justice in America. 

  I also want to recognize the tireless advocacy of Airickca Gordon- Taylor, who is the actual relative of Emmett Till and founder of the  Mamie Till Mobley Memorial Foundation. She was here the last time this  bill was before this body. She is dead now. I know she is looking down  and hoping that we don't disappoint her. 

  In February of 2019, this body did something historic--and I don't  mean to be emotional. I am raw this week. But I stood here with Kamala  and we wept. We talked about the hundreds of years--over a century,  excuse me, of effort to pass legislation which was brought up and  defeated time and again by this body by avowed segregationists. How  proud I was that at a time when partisanship is high in this country we  gathered together in one voice, 100 Senators, to pass this exact same  bill, because there are good people in this body on both sides, and we  were correcting a wrong of history. 

  Nobody in this body needs a lecture on lynching and how horrible it  is. Everybody in this body abhors racism and believes that this  violence is unjust. There are friends of mine here. Unanimously, we  passed that legislation. We made history on this floor. 

  This is why I am confused because this bill has been passed  unanimously, and here we are on a day of a memorial service for another  person whose murder was condemned by people on both sides of the aisle.  I have sat where the Presiding Officer is sitting, and I have watched  the differences between the Republican leader and the Democratic  leader. I don't go back that long in this body, but I have watched  Harry Reid and Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer disagree so deeply  time and again, but, God, we came together and passed the bill  unanimously. Mitch McConnell let the bill come to this floor, didn't  try to block it. 

  My colleague Rand Paul was one of the first hands I shook on this  Senate floor. He is my friend, and everything he said about his  commitment to criminal justice reform is right. One of the first bills  I wrote here I wrote with Rand Paul, and then he went further at  another time like this when America was raw, when another unarmed Black  man was shot. He went as far as to, in Time magazine, stand up and talk  openly about the ProPublica data about a Black man in America being  about 100 times more likely to be shot by the police than someone who  is White. 

  He has said--and he is shaking his head, if I may recognize. He said  that there must be something more going on there if it is that much. So  I do not question--I do not question the sincerity of his convictions.  I have had too many conversations with him to question his heart, but I  am so raw today, of all days, that we are doing this--of all days, that  we are doing this right now, having this discussion when, God, if this  bill passed today, what that would mean for America; that this body and  that body have now finally agreed because I know when Congressman  White, the last Black person to serve in Congress before the God-awful  fall of the backlash after Reconstruction fell. He gave this famous  speech. We were talking about the Phoenix will rise; that one day Black  people will serve in this body. And here we are in the Senate for the  first time in history, when three African Americans serve together,  Republican and Democratic, and we all came together on Kamala's bill 

  There is something about us that we knew it was something more than  the legalistic issues my colleague now wants to bring up; that we are a  nation that needs this historic healing. If we passed this, it would  not only do something substantive to make a difference on the books of  the American system, but, God, it would speak volumes to the racial  pain and the hurt of generations. 

  I do not need my colleague, the Senator from Kentucky, to tell me  about one lynching in this country. I have stood in the museum in  Montgomery, AL, and watched African-American families weeping at the  stories of pregnant women lynched in this country and their babies  ripped out of them while this body did nothing. I can hear the screams,  as this body's membership can, of the unanswered cries for justice by  our ancestors. Every one of us is sensitive to that anguish. Everyone  is sensitive to that pain, as is the Senator from Kentucky. 

  This week, the Senator from Kentucky mentioned a colleague, Justin  Amash. I want to tell my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, he was  only one of four Congressmen of a 435-Member body to vote against the  anti-lynching bill. That means that this bill was supported by the  leader of the Democrats, the Speaker of House. It was supported by the  leader of the Republicans, the whip of the Republicans, the whip of the  Democrats--400-plus votes supported this. Yet my colleague thinks this  bill is wrong. 

  If this bill is wrong, then the Republican leadership of the House is  wrong. If this bill is wrong, then the Democratic leadership of the  House is wrong. If this bill is wrong, 99 Senators are wrong. If this  bill is wrong, then the  NAACP is wrong. If this bill is wrong, then the Lawyers' Committee for  Civil Rights Under Law is wrong. If this bill is wrong, then the Urban  League of America is wrong, legal organizations, civil rights  organizations, Democrats and Republicans. Tell me another time when  500-plus Congresspeople, Democrats, Republicans, House Members, and  Senators came together in a chorus of conviction and said that now is  the time in America that we condemn the dark history of our past and  actually pass anti-lynchings legislation. And now one man--and I do not  question his motives because I know his heart--one man--one man is  standing in the way of the law of the land changing because of a  difference of interpretation. 

  This doesn't talk about bruising someone. It is a difference of  interpretation. 

  Does America need a win today on racial justice? Do the anguished  cries of people in the streets? 

  I have had children break down with me this week wondering if this  would be a country that values their lives as much as White people's  lives. I had to explain to grown men this week that there is still hope  in America; that we could make change in America; that we could grow  and heal in America; that we could make this a more perfect Union. 

  Well, today is a day we can do it--to have one Member to yield for  once, like he did in February of 2019, yield for 1 day and give America  this win. Let us pass this piece of legislation today of all days.  Let's give a headline tomorrow of something that will give hope to this  country that we can get it right. It may not cure the ills that so many  are protesting about, but, God, it could be a sign of hope. 

     I  object on substance.   BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, this is a bill that has already passed  this body. Same bill, same language.  Only four  Members of the House of Representatives objected. Same bill, same  language. 

  I have heard this objection. We disagree with this. The truth is,  what is being proposed is not just opposed by me, but our Republican  colleagues who are sponsoring this bill, in this body, oppose these  corrections as well. 

  In addition to that, changes to this bill now would send it back to  the House of Representatives. This is a tactic that will send this bill  back over to the House, where again it would have to be voted on. 

  This idea that somehow someone would be brought up on lynching  charges for a slapping is absurd, especially as you see, with hate  crime legislation, how difficult that is even to prove. 

  So I am deeply disappointed by the objections we have heard that were  not made manifest last year, in 2019, but somehow seem to be stopping  it in 2020.  One day in this Nation, this  legislation will pass. 

  Perhaps it will have to wait until I am not here, until Senator Paul  is not here, unless he decides to go back to the 2019 Senator Paul. 

  The question is, What side of history will we ultimately be on? I  pray that it happens in this Congress. I pray that the President signs  legislation against lynching. How historic that would be. But today it  is not going to happen, obviously. 

  I am telling you right now, this celebration will come. This moment  in American history will come. The frustrating thing for me is, at a  time when this country hungers for common sense, racial reconciliation,  an acknowledgement of our past and a looking forward to the better  future, this will be one of the sad days where that possibility was  halted. 

  As we all know, one of the great leaders that Republicans and  Democrats all hail asked that question--How long will it take?--and the  simple answer is not long because the truth crushed to earth will rise  again; not long because you reap what you sow; not long because the arc  of the moral universe is long but it bends toward justice. 

  We will pass this legislation. I pray that the Members of this body,  as we are right now, are the ones to do it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT