Vote Explanation


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, throughout my time in Congress, I have  worked to address our Nation's most pressing environmental issues and  have supported aggressive action to protect our environment, address  climate change, and reduce air and water pollution. Although I was not  present for the votes on the following nominees and legislation on the  floor, I did vote no on the nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be  Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service during her Senate  Environment and Public Works Committee markup. In addition, if I had  been present for the floor vote on her nomination and the additional  votes outlined below, I would have voted in the following way: yes on  2/7/19 for vote No. 18, motion to table amendments to the Natural  Resources Management Act, S. 47, PL 116-9. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no on the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: no on 2/7/19 for vote No. 19, motion to  table amendment to the Natural Resources Management Act, S. 47, PL 116- 9. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no on the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: no on 4/11/19 for vote No. 77, the  confirmation of David Bernhardt to be Secretary of the Interior. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no on the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: no on 9/24/19 for vote No. 300, the  confirmation of Daniel Habib Jorjani to be Solicitor of the Department  of the Interior. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not  present for the votes on the following nominees and legislation on the  floor, I did vote no on the nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be  Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service during her Senate  Environment and Public Works Committee markup. In addition, if I had  been present for the floor vote on her nomination and the additional  votes outlined below, I would have voted in the following way: no on 9/ 26/19 for vote No. 310, amendment to continuing appropriations, 2020/ health extenders, H.R. 4378, PL 116-59. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no on the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: yes on 9/26/19 for vote No. 311, passage of  continuing appropriations, 2020/health extenders, H.R. 4378, PL 116-59. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no on the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: yes on 10/17/19 for vote No. 324, passage  of the powerplant rule disapproval, S.J. Res. 53. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no on the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: no on 10/31/19 for vote No. 339, amendment  to further continuing appropriations, 2020, H.R. 3055. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: yes on 10/31/19 for vote No. 340, amendment  to further continuing appropriations, 2020, H.R. 3055. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no on the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: yes on 10/31/19 for vote No. 341, passage  of further continuing appropriations, 2020, H.R. 3055. 

  Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked to address our Nation's  most pressing environmental issues and have supported aggressive action  to protect our environment, address climate change, and reduce air and  water pollution. Although I was not present for the votes on the  following nominees and legislation on the floor, I did vote no on the  nomination of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service during her Senate Environment and Public Works  Committee markup. In addition, if I had been present for the floor vote  on her nomination and the additional votes outlined below, I would have  voted in the following way: no on 12/11/19 for vote No. 395,  confirmation of Aurelia Skipwith to be Director of the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT