-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691071/9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, a lot of Americans are watching this  spectacle: a $400 million gift from Qatar, which President Trump has  called a ``palace in the sky.''

It would be for his personal use now and then afterward when he is a  private citizen. And they are wondering, Isn't there a law that  prevents it? Isn't there some statute that stops this corruption--a  gift to the President from a foreign power that makes him beholden for  his personal benefit and use?

And the answer to the American people is, yes, there is a law. In  fact, it is in the Constitution. It is a specific clause. It is called  the foreign emoluments clause. It states:

[N]o person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under       them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of       any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind       whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.

And the reason for this clause, which was written by the Founders  centuries ago, is so powerfully shown today. At the beginning of our  Nation, we were a small country, potentially influenced by big foreign  powers--England, France.

The Founders were concerned that our Presidents or other officials  could be bought, could be influenced, could be pressured by those  foreign powers. So they specifically wrote into the statutes a measure  that protected our small Nation then.

It applies equally now. In fact, now, it is even more a protection of  our national security. This plane is emblematic of a core,  metastasizing corruption, an economic cancer that has infected the  White House, but it is also emblematic of a national security threat  from nations who would buy our President--maybe not signed, sealed, and  delivered but exert undue influence.

In fact, the national security threat is even greater from this  plane, which would have to be taken apart--a huge expense to American  taxpayers--literally taken apart down to its shell.

As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I can tell you that  there are foreign powers all over the world who would like nothing  better than a Qatar plane to be carrying the President of the United  States--potentially bugged, infiltrated by systems that could be hacked  by them, not just by Qatar or other Mideast nations.

It is a threat to our national security to have the President of the  United States riding in this plane unless it is, in effect, taken apart  and put back together with the systems and the safeguards that are  included on Air Force One.

This blatantly corrupt act shows that the President is just in it for  himself. In fact, that kind of equipping of the plane will take  billions of dollars of taxpayer money and years of work to bring this  aircraft up to the requirements--the minimal requirements--of Air Force  One, ready in time for the President to use it after he leaves office.  And President Trump won't even pay the transfer fees.

The reports that the U.S. Air Force will pay all of the costs related  to retrofitting and transferring this plane to the United States, even  to the Presidential library, show the blatant corruption here.  Accepting the plane is bad enough, but foisting on taxpayers the  expense of retrofitting it and updating it and then transferring it to  his foundation is an insult to every American.

And my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would like to say it  is only Democrats who are objecting, but, in fact, MAGA media  personalities strongly agree. One described the planned gift of this  plane as a ``bribe''--pretty right on. Another called it  ``indefensible''--also right.

Even Laura Loomer opposes this gift. She described this incident as a  ``stain'' on the Trump administration. I never thought I would say that  she is right, too, but it is a stain not on the Trump administration  alone. It is a stain on America. It is a stain on our national honor.  It is a stain on the integrity of the greatest country in the history  of the world.

Foreign governments have figured out how to get to Donald Trump. It  is through his wallet, his vanity, and his bank account.

It is not just this ``palace in the sky.'' The Qatari Government has  signed a $5.5 billion deal with the Trump Organization to build a  luxury golf resort in Qatar, complete with Trump-branded beach side  villas and an 18-hole golf course.

And it is not just Qatar. President Trump has also pursued new  business deals with the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, and others, including  Serbia.

On May 1, Trump's cryptocurrency firm announced that an investment  fund backed by the United Arab Emirates would be using President  Trump's digital coins to complete a $2 billion transaction. Through  this deal, President Trump and his family stand to gain hundreds of  millions of dollars from a foreign state, and their ``cryptocurrency  empire,'' if I can use that term loosely, which includes World Liberty  Financial, as well as their meme coin, $TRUMP, is making hundreds of  millions of dollars--literally, hundreds of millions of dollars, for  example, through the transfer fee involved in FIGHT FIGHT FIGHT. That  is the reason that the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations  Minority Staff, which I head, has written asking for more facts from  FIGHT FIGHT FIGHT and World Liberty Financial.

But this crypto corruption is, again, just one more of the ongoing  corrupt con games that President Trump has helmed. LIV Golf, backed by  the Saudi Government, will host a tournament at Trump National Doral  resort later this year, and the Trump Organization has announced new  real estate developments on government-owned land in Serbia and  elsewhere.

Now, there is a kind of fundamental principle here, and it goes back  to the Founders. The American President is supposed to work for the  American people, not for his own enrichment. In foreign policy and on  the international stage, he is supposed to represent the United States  of America, not his own  business interests, or any foreign state or any business privately.

And that is what the emoluments clause is meant to guarantee. It  protects our national security, as well as the integrity of our  political system.

When President Trump, brazenly and shamefully, flouts the  constitutional protections implemented by the Founders to avoid  improper influence, he violates one of the core principles of our  Constitution. He has never come to Congress asking for any permission  for any of these deals; that is for sure. His willingness to use the  privileges of his office to enrich himself and his family seems to know  no bounds. Congress simply cannot stand aside because Congress is the  one who has to enforce the emoluments clause.

I know. I went to court during the first Trump term. I organized many  of my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to ask the courts to  enforce the emoluments clause, and we won in district court. Our case  failed in the court of appeals because of lack of standing; that is to  say, we lacked authorization, specific permission from the House or the  Senate to go forward.

There were 214 other Members of Congress who joined in my lawsuit to  enforce this clause. There is no other party that is an enforcer for  this clause, and if the President refuses to seek our approval for  acceptance of these foreign benefits, we have no choice but to go to  court again.

I am hopeful that my Republican colleagues will join me in saying:  Well, we may be wrong about all of this corruption, about what  Blumenthal is saying about the violation of the foreign emoluments  clause, but let's let a court decide. Let's bring it to a judge on the  Federal court--because in my view this violation of law is so abjectly  and obviously clear that it demands an answer from the courts.

Accordingly, in a moment, I will ask for unanimous consent to pass a  resolution that would direct Senate legal counsel to file a lawsuit on  behalf of the U.S. Senate to enforce the emoluments clause.

And I will just close by saying to my Republican colleagues: I  challenge you. I challenge you to prove that you are more than just  lackeys to President Trump, that you are just more than automatic  approvers of whatever he does, his self-enrichment schemes, and show  that the Senate still has spine, still has self-respect, and still has  respect for the Founders, who said that no one is above the law.

No one can brazenly and shamefully commit corruption that endangers  the national security of the United States of America and makes our  Nation vulnerable to this kind of interference from foreign powers,  whether they are in the Middle East or Russia or anywhere around the  globe.

Res. 219, submitted  earlier today, and that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be  agreed to, and the motions to reconsider be made and laid upon the  table with no intervening action or debate.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, if President Trump is everything that  my colleague has just said, he never would have suggested this $400  million boondoggle. He never would have thought that the American  people should pay billions of dollars to retrofit the plane. He never  would have risked the American security in the threat that is posed by  foreign powers bugging or hacking the security devices or disabling the  mechanisms of this plane.

And if this President never flies on this plane, it will only be  because of the vocal and vehement protests that we are seeing, not only  on the floor of the U.S. Senate but across the country, from MAGA  personalities and commentators to everyday Americans who are aghast  that hundreds of millions--in fact, billions--of dollars will be spent  on this boondoggle that puts at risk American security. If President  Trump never takes possession of this plane, it will only be because he  has been embarrassed and shamed by our vehement and vocal protests  against doing it. And the reaction of everyday Americans has been one  of vehement objection.

But this plane is only the most visible and tangible evidence of a  corrupt administration--and, particularly, the crypto corruption, where  hundreds of millions of dollars are literally flowing into the bank  accounts and pockets of President Trump and his family. And everyday  Americans are suffering losses because of it.

The investors in his meme coin--tens of thousands of them--are  losers. They have lost money. And many other Americans are likely to  suffer losses as well. So the tangible impact of that crypto corruption  is real and present and ongoing.

And so I think enforcement of the emoluments clause through a lawsuit  brought by the Senate of the United States, authorized through this  resolution, is absolutely necessary and appropriate now.