-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698494/9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, as we all remember if we were here 5  years ago, this building was attacked. The Capitol was stormed.  Democracy was under siege, not just the physical structure, but our  lives, literally. Each of us had a memory of that moment.

And I will never forget, I am sure most of my colleagues won't  either, how we left this Chamber, without panic, but certainly in a  surge of emotion as we heard the pounding at the doors as we were told  to move quickly.

Senators were ordered to move out of harm's way, and we saw through  the windows or the doors--or face-to-face some of us--the pipes and  baseball bats. It was a moment that nobody who went through it can ever  forget because insurrectionists scaled the walls; they smashed windows;  they forced their way through the doors into this Chamber and the  House. They broke into the legislative branch of government.

And it wasn't simply a symbolic move; it was literally to stop the  counting of the electoral votes, to halt the peaceful transition of  power, which is the trademark of our democracy.

Five years ago, Capitol Police and other law enforcement stood  between these attackers and ourselves, Members of this body. They  resisted the insurrectionists trying to scale these walls with their  own bodies, and they were hurt. One hundred forty officers were  injured, several died--five perished.

And in that terrible moment, one of the darkest times in the history  of our democracy, we came together. We joined arms, maybe not  literally, but we were together in that undisclosed location-- Republicans and Democrats--who had walked at a pretty good pace through  the halls and then confined together, guarded by members of law  enforcement as well as the military.

We were together, and we felt under threat together, but we decided,  when we were asked, that we would stay. We would not go home for the  night, as some of the security wanted us to do. We would stay to count  the votes. As dark as that moment was in the history of the United  States of America, we can be proud, as a body, of that decision to  count the votes and do our duty, rather than shirk it in the midst of  that continuing unknown and potential danger as the security literally  went through the broken glass and the desecrated offices and this very  Chamber to make sure that there were no bombs or rioters left and we  could come back with some assurance of safety. That moment, we came  together, 5 years ago--5 years ago.

And what a difference 5 years makes. In the past 5 years, segments of  society have latched onto baseless and harmful conspiracy theories  about the attack. There are January 6 deniers, just as there are  election deniers and there are Holocaust deniers. We live in an era  when conspiracy theorists can spread falsehoods through social media  and other means around the globe, certainly around our country.

And these baseless and harmful conspiracy theories are, by now, in a  book by the current FBI Director, Kash Patel, who claims that the  January 6 attack was ``the insurrection that never was'' and was  encouraged by ``deep state'' agitators as a pretext to persecute Trump  supporters.

Well, we know who incited the January 6 insurrection. It is on tape.  It can be seen. In a speech outside the White House on January 6,  Donald J. Trump claimed to a crowd of thousands of Trump supporters  that ``we won this election and we won it by a landslide.''

He promised to ``stop the steal.'' He vowed that ``we will never give  up, we will never concede.''

And, most damningly, he told that crowd:

[I]f you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a       country anymore.

And that is when the crowd marched down the National Mall to this  building, which they stormed, to the police officers whom they  attacked, and the doors that they knocked down.

They entered the Capitol at 2 p.m. Not until 4:17 p.m. did Donald  Trump call those supporters to go home--2 hours after people were  injured and some died.

So we shouldn't be surprised, perhaps, that Donald Trump, in one of  his first acts of office, pardoned all of those rioters--blanket  pardon, even the ones who hit and caused the deaths of the Capitol  Police.

And maybe we shouldn't be surprised that just several weeks ago, when  I asked three judicial nominees--three lawyers nominated to be Federal  district judges by Donald Trump--``Was the Capitol attacked on January  6,'' they refused to answer, each of them parroting a standard remark  to the effect of: President Biden was certified as the winner.

They refused to tell the truth about January 6. That is how history  is degraded. That is how history is rewritten. That is how the truth is  suppressed. That is why we are here today. That is why I am standing  here to make sure that history is preserved.

You know, we say often we want to speak truth to power. We need to  speak history to authority. We need to speak the truth to America about  what happened on January 6.

Notwithstanding all of those conspiracy theorists, the Department of  Justice inspector general reported there is ``no evidence . . . that  the FBI had undercover employees in the various protest crowds, or at  the Capitol, on January 6. No FBI CHS [confidential human source] was  authorized to enter the Capitol or restricted area, or to otherwise  break the law on January 6.''

I am under no illusion. I know this speech is not going to talk any  of those conspiracy theorists out of their deep-seated beliefs, but we  owe it to our children--and I owe it to two grandchildren born within  the last 6 months--that we preserve history, despite the blanket  pardon, despite the distortion of history that has occurred.

So we are here today to say to our Republican colleagues: Join us in  preserving that history. Join us in making sure the truth is told from  this Chamber to America, to all of our country.  Do not forget, 5 years ago, rioters, incited by President Trump, tried  to destroy our democracy.

Trump pardoned, glorified them, even empowering some of them in key  administration offices. We cannot allow him to rewrite history.

Do not forget. Police were brutally attacked, injured, and killed for  doing their job to enable a peaceful democratic transition of power.  They still bear the scars. So does our democracy.

Do not forget democracy is not guaranteed. It cannot be taken for  granted. Do not forget it is our duty to remember the truth.