-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694542/9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, as we know, inspectors general in our  Federal Agencies--and every Agency has one--have a really unique role  in our Federal Government. They are responsible for rooting out waste  and fraud, uncovering wrongdoing. They are supposed to be fearlessly  independent advocates of integrity, completely nonpartisan, and above  the political fray. And that is the role they have performed in our  government: saving millions--perhaps billions--of dollars in taxpayer  money, ending corruption at the highest levels, and performing a vital  experience for our democracy.

One of the very best of our inspectors general has been Mike Missal.  He was responsible for recovering more than $37 billion during his  tenure at the Veterans' Administration. He was the inspector general at  the VA under both Republican and Democratic administrations, widely  respected by both sides of the aisle. Republican colleagues have worked  with him, I have, and so have my colleagues on this side of the aisle.  He was performing with extraordinary excellence and integrity, until he  was fired without any cause, without any reason, by President Trump.

And he was not alone. In fact, the President illegally fired 18  inspectors general. I say ``illegally'' because they are protected by  statute. They can't just be fired willy-nilly without cause. And that  litigation will continue, but in the meantime, those 18 inspectors  general have been deprived of the opportunity to save us money, end  corruption, and protect the integrity of our democracy--18 of them,  nonpartisan, independent public servants.

Today, we consider Mike Missal's replacement, a woman named Cheryl  Mason, who, unfortunately, is one of the most partisan and least  independent of the nominees for inspector general positions that we  have seen in recent years.

We need now, more than ever, independent oversight in the VA. And so  to my friends, to veterans of America who may be wondering why I am  standing here urging a ``no'' vote on Cheryl Mason, just consider the  role of inspector general in the VA for you as veterans. When you have  a complaint about a VA facility--it has failed to give you appointments  on time for care--if you have a complaint against some VA claims  processor blowing you off, if you have a complaint about the system,  about the failures to provide compensation and care, the inspector  general is the one who vindicates justice for you.

Ultimately, we have an oversight function here in the U.S. Congress.  I am going to fight for you as your Senator, if you are from  Connecticut--or anywhere else. There are lots of different points where  oversight and advocacy can occur on your behalf.

But the inspector general is inside the VA and has access to all of  the documents, all of the information that are necessary to protect the  integrity of this Agency. And that person should be fearlessly  independent.

As a matter of fact, Cheryl Mason served on President Trump's  transition team, and then she has been, for the last 6 months, senior  adviser to Secretary Doug Collins, who himself has been a partisan, who  has dismantled the VA workforce, who has canceled contracts and  endangered care and compensation from the VA.

She was senior adviser when Secretary Collins illegally fired  thousands of VA employees, a quarter or a third of them veterans. He  fired them, and she was his senior adviser.

As adviser, we have to presume she aided him in implementing policies  that are expected to drive at least 30,000 public servants out of the  VA by the end of the year, while refusing to fill 40,000 vacancies that  have existed before he took that position.

Those 30,000 who will be out of the VA by the end of the year include  1,720 registered nurses, 600 doctors, 1,150 medical support assistance,  200 police officers, 80 psychologists, and more than 1,000 claims  examiners. Maybe we should be grateful the number isn't 83,000, which  was his plan, and she was his senior adviser for that plan.

She was a senior adviser when Secretary Collins began the process to  cancel or end more than 1,600 contracts providing direct services to  veterans or support for critical VA operation, including for suicide  prevention and mental health treatment, cancer registry, and inspection  of VA healthcare facilities. She was his senior adviser when Doug  Collins wanted to end the veterans' suicide crisis line, which  epitomized the cruelty and stupidity of those cuts in workforce, hiring  freezes, ends in contract.

And despite a formal request from myself and Senator Peters, the  Republican chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security and  Governmental Affairs refused to hold a hearing on the Mason nomination.  A hearing is customary for the nomination of inspectors general,  particularly one this controversial.

But we did have a hearing in the VA, and it was highly illuminating-- not for what we learned but for what she denied doing. Listen to her.  She continually avoided giving committee members any specific  information about her role in realigning the senior executives at the  VA or her role in the firing or reorganization or her role in requiring  employees to sign nondisclosure agreements or any of the substantive  work she has been doing as a political appointee. She denied any role  in the freezes, the firings, the elimination of contracts.

I said to her: Well, what have you been doing?

And we got no straight answer. She was evasive, and her evasiveness  was illuminating. She refused to commit to conducting any investigation  of employee terminations that were found illegal by the courts. She  refused to condemn President Trump's illegal firing of her predecessor  and other inspectors general.

She has a conflict of interest here. She served as a senior adviser  for 6 months while policies were devised and  implemented that now she will have to review as a supposedly  independent inspector general.

When you, my fellow veterans, have complaints, that is not the kind  of advocate that you need. That is not the kind of investigator of  corruption or waste that the country deserves, and that is not what we  need from an inspector general in the VA. Veterans and taxpayers  deserve an independent, nonpartisan inspector general who will conduct  investigations free from interference and any collusion from the  administration. Someone who is accountable and transparent, someone who  comes forward candidly and forthrightly with the truth, not evading  questions that are posed by Senators or the public.

We simply cannot have faith that she is going to be the kind of  inspector general that our veterans deserve and the country needs at  this moment. We can't have faith that she will be unbiased in her  judgment relating to President Trump or Secretary Collins.

She is supposed to be judging them, but she is beholden to them, and  she has been part and parcel of the policies and actions of this  administration that have been so dangerous and damaging to the VA in  these past months.

Our veterans deserve better than a political loyalist who is going to  be rubberstamping those policies. Her confirmation, in fact, will  diminish the credibility of the office of inspector general at the VA  and in other Agencies as well.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this nomination. We can do  better. The country needs and deserves better. And maybe, most  important, our veterans need and deserve better.

(Mrs. BLACKBURN assumed the Chair.)