-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696612/9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for this unified  support for a measure that is eminently reasonable, and I thank the  leader of our side, Senator Schumer, for advancing this proposal.

It is a compromise. It is simple and plain. And I will be very blunt:  It is not everything I would have wanted. Like the Senator from  Wisconsin, my friend Senator Baldwin, I would have wanted the  healthcare tax credits to be permanently guaranteed. I would have  wanted a guarantee as well that there be no rescissions or impoundments  of funds, as this President has done repeatedly. I would have wanted a  reversal of the firings, the so-called RIFs, the reductions in force  that have been eminently unfair and a guarantee of backpay to everybody  who has been furloughed. There are other provisions that, for me, were  profoundly important. It is a compromise. And ``compromise'' is not a  four-letter word; it is the way to get things done.

This picture of unity is worth a thousand of my words, but it is also  a clear response to a crisis that we face, and we face it today. It is  a crisis in healthcare. It is a crisis in hunger. It is a crisis in air  transportation.

For millions of Americans, it is a crisis of affordability. Nobody in  America needed Tuesday's elections to tell them that the cost of rent  and electricity and food and all the other necessities in life are  spiraling out of control.

And, yes, healthcare costs are spiraling out of control. They are at  the kitchen table right now across America, looking at the exchanges,  and concluding they simply can't afford those spiking premiums,  multiples of three and four times--and at least twice--what they were  paying. Many of them are taking the risk that they will go without  insurance.

This measure guarantees an outcome. The majority leader Senator Thune  has said he can't guarantee an outcome. All he can promise is a  process. And I am unwilling to accept a promise of some vote at an  indefinite point on an undefined bill sometime in the future because  the urgency of now for American families means they are making choices  about whether they can afford insurance at this moment for next year.

In fairness to the majority leader, he can't promise anything for  either the Speaker of the House or the President. They have been absent  without leave. They have been AWOL. They have refused to talk.

We are presenting them now with a reasonable compromise that the  majority leader can accept and our colleagues on the other side of the  aisle should embrace.

The problem here is one of trust. What we have seen from the  administration is a strategy of maximum pain to magnify political  pressure.

In just minutes from now, in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First  Circuit, this administration will argue that SNAP benefits should be  ended after the President himself promised that they would be paid in  full in compliance with the district court orders in Rhode Island and  Massachusetts. There is no way to trust that SNAP benefits will be  provided without a guarantee from the courts.

The urgency that we face is also in air transportation. We all want  people to be able to reach their destinations safely. It has to come  first. And we need to make sure that the TSA and air controllers are  paid. They are heroes for having worked for so long without pay.

We need to stop the madness of this trend line. It is a through line  in the administration's tactics here. It is a through line of cruelty  and stupidity that has magnified the costs for the American people not  just in blue States but all across the country.

We should seek reform and improvement in the ACA, eliminating any  kind of fraud and stopping the spiraling increase in healthcare costs.  But I should warn my colleagues: We will not sacrifice the ACA.

Very revealing yesterday in the hearing of the Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations was the commentary from a number of my Republican  colleagues in effect saying that we should kill the ACA--an effort that  has been part of their relentless campaign over the last 15 years to  decimate this resounding and important law that now is embraced by the  vast majority of the American people.

We put in the record stories of individuals from Michigan and  Pennsylvania and Iowa.

Aaron Lehman, a fifth-generation farmer, told us: I grow corn,  soybean, oats, and hay with my family. The Affordable Care Act has been  one of the best investments in rural healthcare in decades.

We cannot afford, as a nation, to go back to the days when  preexisting conditions were a pretext for denying healthcare. If  someone had a history of cancer, diabetes, heart disease, HIV, asthma,  depression, pregnancy--the list goes on--insurers could force patients  to pay more or refuse to offer them coverage at all.

Standing strong for the ACA very simply means providing healthcare to  Americans. Extending the healthcare tax credits for 1 year is a  compromise that makes sense. It will put the government back to work  fully and capably and fairly.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this reasonable  compromise.