-9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, the chairman and I share a bipartisan  commitment to putting our veterans first, including providing them with  the kind of memorial and cemetery recognition that they have well  earned. There is no difference between us on that point.

And I think we also share a belief that Members of the U.S. Senate  have a duty--it is a constitutional duty--to hold accountable the  executive branch and demand information from the executive branch to  perform our obligations of oversight and scrutiny.

I think we also share a respect for Sam Brown's service to our  Nation. As a veteran--as a decorated veteran--who has earned  appreciation for his service, the kinds of qualifications he brings to  this office are impressive. But this nominee was advanced out of  committee by a 10-to-9 vote. So it is clear he does not have unanimous  support.

He said, when he was asked about whether he would support the Trump  administration's plan to fire nearly  one-fifth of the VA's workforce, including many who are veterans  themselves--in fact, one-third of the VA's workforce are veterans:

We owe it to the Secretary in good faith to hear his full       plan, which none of us have heard yet.

That is really the point. This issue is bigger than Sam Brown. It is  about information that has been denied to our committee and to us as  Senators.

The Secretary of the VA is actively working to undermine our  bipartisan oversight efforts. Cuts have been made to contracts that  delivered critical support and services to veterans. Despite multiple  bipartisan requests, the Secretary refuses to share the list of  canceled contracts. Thousands of VA employees have been bullied, driven  off their jobs, or fired by Elon Musk and Secretary Collins. And there  are plans to fire 83,000 employees, and we haven't seen those plans.  All the Secretary has told us is that it is his goal and he will  accomplish that goal. He denied us that basic information.

So I have said I am opposing this nomination until we are given the  information and disclosure we need to do our jobs. The Secretary has  issued a pause on rulemaking that effectively halts efforts underway to  provide veterans, including K2 veterans suffering from radiation  exposure, the benefits they desperately need, or PFAS victims or other  victims of toxic exposure. And he has refused to indicate when this so- called pause will be lifted or whether it is permanent.

Again, we have a job to do, and we have a right to demand--in fact,  the Constitution requires that we make that demand--the VA must be  transparent and accountable. Instead, the Secretary has come before our  committee. He dissembled, he obfuscated, he has attacked anyone who  questions him, and he denies us the basic information--denies the  American people the information--that he owes us.

My request is simple. If the President or my Republican colleagues  believe that a certain nominee is a priority, come clean with the  American people. Give us the information we need. What contracts have  been canceled? Who is impacted by that action? What research has been  stopped? Who has been fired, and who will be fired? What is the plan?  Address the unprecedented levels of obstructionism from this  administration and give the American people, including our Nation's  veterans, the full and public debate they deserve.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I respect the points that my colleague  from Kansas has just made as chairman. We have worked together in a  bipartisan way. I hope we will continue to work together to make sure  that the National Cemetery Administration is given the resources it  needs and the personnel that are required to make sure this Nation  honors our veterans.

As we speak, members of that workforce, the National Cemetery  Administration, have been fired or are being fired or will be fired.  Resources may be strangled. We deserve to know--we need to know--to  honor our veterans. That is the information we are demanding from this  Secretary of the VA.

I respect the assurances that Sam Brown will do his job. But when he  was asked specifically at his hearing whether, if directed by the  President to take action that would break the law, he responded that he  could not ``imagine a scenario where the President would ask me to do  anything unlawful.'' We know the President has asked members of this  administration to do unlawful actions.

But the main point is bigger than Sam Brown. What are the resources  that are being withheld in both workforce and dollars to expand our  cemeteries as is required to make sure we provide places that honor our  veterans? This basic information is an absolute prerequisite for us to  do our job and assure that veterans are really honored on this Memorial  Day and every day of the year.

We owe our veterans that honor--honor with action--every day, not  just Memorial Day. Americans who lay wreaths this Memorial Day are  entitled to know what dollars, what commitments, what plans there are  for our national cemeteries. We need and deserve that disclosure.