-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693321/9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am here to sound the alarm--to make  my colleagues aware--of the crisis that faces us. It challenges all  veterans. It faces the United States of America because of the chaos  and confusion that continues at the Veterans Health Administration and  the sliding downward of service that is available to our Nation's  heroes.

On Monday, VA Secretary Doug Collins announced that he would be  abandoning his disastrous plan to fire 83,000 VA employees, and the  reason is pretty simple: The Trump administration is set to lose 30,000  employees at the end of the year. That number is incredibly worrisome.  It is a significant number. The VA typically has a net gain of 10,000  VA employees every year. Yet, this year, it stands to lose more than  30,000 of its workforce, despite serving more veterans than ever  before--significantly more--because of the PACT Act.

So, at a time when the VA already has 40,000 vacancies in veterans'  healthcare, this administration ought to be focused on hiring more  employees, not touting how its employees are abandoning the VA--fleeing  a toxic work environment and a demoralizing work environment. They are  fleeing the VA because of a failed and failing leadership.

Now, the reason why the VA Secretary has abandoned this plan to fire  83,000 people is, essentially, unexplained. There is no transparency.  He has denied us information about who would have been fired. He has  refused to provide information about the 30,000 individual workers who  are leaving and what positions they hold.

But here is what we know for sure. Only because of the blistering  backlash of veterans themselves, the veterans service organizations  that represent them, Members of Congress like myself, and the public,  is he, in fact, abandoning this cruel and stupid plan, which has never  been explained. He is abandoning it because of the protests of veterans  and VSOs who spoke out. And I thank them. I am here to say ``thank  you'' to the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the DVA, the  Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans--I could go through the entire list. And  to all the veterans posts and organizations, thank you for helping to  save those jobs and those workers who would have been fired--by the  way, a third of them veterans themselves.

But this 30,000 number is no cause for relief or complacency. In  fact, it is unconscionable because it will undercut veterans' care and  benefits. We have already seen some of the impacts of this haphazard  effort to force hard-working public servants out of the VA because of a  toxic work environment created by this administration and DOGE's slash- and-trash policy.

VA nurses across the country are having to perform mandatory  overtime. Lifesaving clinical trials have been canceled. Veterans are  being directed to call the Veterans Crisis Line instead of regular  appointments as mental health providers leave the VA in droves.

This announcement by the VA Secretary makes clear that the VA,  essentially, is bleeding employees across the board. And the loss of  key people includes clinical staff: doctors, nurses. There are already  40,000 vacancies. How can the VA possibly recruit talented, skilled,  dedicated employees when they know they will be fired at any moment?

We know that a lot of the people leaving or declining jobs at the VA  because of this chaos are, in fact, the professionals who deliver  medical care--like doctors and nurses--to veterans. These positions are  already facing shortages, especially in rural areas. How will rural  veterans fare between the bleeding out of the VA employees when many  rural hospitals are now set to shutter their doors under the  President's ``Big Beautiful Betrayal,'' the bill he just signed into  law?

Make no mistake, this attrition is not natural. It is not natural  attrition to lose 30,000 employees when the ordinary rate is to hire  10,000 per year. It is a reduction in force. You can call it what you  will, but it is essentially a purposeful and intentional reduction in  the workers necessary to provide medical care and benefits to veterans.  It is shameful to ruin a great institution. And veterans' healthcare  has provided world-class, gold-standard care to countless heroes across  the country. This administration is decimating that institution.

American veterans deserve nothing less than for every single Member  of this body to call out and challenge these damaging policies--not  applaud them as some measure of success or even to sanction them by our  silence. We need to speak out, stand up for our veterans. Now is the  time, before the damage escalates and becomes more serious.

I am absolutely anguished and furious about these cuts, which not  only destroy an institution but endanger our veterans who want to go to  VA clinics and hospitals like the ones we have in Connecticut in West  Haven or in Newington, rural hospitals that will be shuttered, clinics  providing telehealth--all of the people who are necessary to provide  those services, whether they are the technicians or the clinician or  the janitors who are part of a team. And the VA thrives on teamwork.

As things stand, 30,000 VA employees will lose their jobs. That is  not what America should be tolerating or celebrating on Independence  Day and this time in our Nation's history.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I ask that the scheduled vote be  commenced immediately.