-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700354/9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I just left a hearing involving the  Veterans of Foreign Wars before the Veterans' Committee. In fact, it  was a joint hearing of both the House's and the Senate's Veterans'  Committees, where I am the ranking member.

I informed them that I was coming to the floor of the U.S. Senate to  seek unanimous consent on the Major Richard Star Act, and there was a  spontaneous standing ovation. I dare say that that applause was totally  bipartisan--nonpolitical--because there is no more glaring and  egregious injustice affecting veterans today--our Nation's patriots-- than the fact that 50,000 veterans and servicemembers are forced to  medically retire or to undergo medical separation because of combat- related injuries and are unable to collect both retirement benefits and  disability compensation. Right now, the men and  women who are in harm's way in the Middle East may be injured--we hope  not--but there may be casualties. We know that some have already been  injured.

If they retire as a result of those combat injuries with less than 20  years of service--the majority of them have less than 20 years of  service--they will be reduced in their retirement pay, dollar for  dollar, from their VA disability benefits. Let me just repeat: Right  now, combat-injured veterans are getting a dollar-for-dollar reduction  of their military retirement pay from their VA disability benefits. So  if they have to retire because they have been injured in combat, they  sacrifice, dollar for dollar, their retirement pay because of the  disability benefits that they receive. They are entitled to both. They  have earned both. The Nation promised them both. They deserve both.

The Major Richard Star Act will finally provide some justice to those  veterans. It will finally provide these military retirees with their  full disability and Department of Defense retirement benefits, righting  this longstanding injustice.

It is sponsored by 77 of my colleagues in the Senate, including both  Republicans and Democrats. It has similar support in the House of  Representatives. We have never been provided with a vote--yes, a vote.  If it did receive a vote, it would pass overwhelmingly. The simple  request for a vote has been denied. There are a variety of excuses that  have been offered like ``It costs too much.''

Well, as the national commander of the VFW said today, in supporting  this bill, the costs of providing for our veterans are part of the cost  of war. We are in a war right now, real-time, and some of those combat- injured veterans will be sacrificing their disability or retirement pay  because of this injustice. And then some have characterized the Major  Richard Star Act as providing for double-dipping. Well, our veterans  forced to retire because of combat injures have earned both. We can  afford to right this injustice. Whatever the estimate on the amount of  funding required--and it has varied over the years--it is a pittance  compared to the costs of our national defense--close to a trillion  dollars now. This country can afford to do the right thing by these  combat-injured veterans, and we have a moral imperative to do so.

Veterans who have served more than 20 years already received both the  VA and the DOD payments in whole. Veterans who have served less than 20  years because they are combat injured--frankly, for any reason--deserve  better.

This week and last, thousands of veterans have flown into our  Nation's Capital from every corner of the country to advocate for their  top priorities, and collectively, they are calling on Congress--all of  them--all of the veterans service organizations, all of the groups that  represent our Nation's heroes have told us unequivocally and repeatedly  that correcting this injustice is absolutely necessary. The benefits  they have earned are the benefits they should be receiving right now,  and it will make a huge difference in the lives of all these veterans.

Take, for example, SSG Clayton Smith. He was involuntarily medically  retired after 11 years in the U.S. Army because of his combat-related  injury. He feels that veterans impacted by this offset have upheld  their commitment to serve, but the system fails to recognize its  commitment to him--promises made, promises kept, but in this case, not  kept. In his words:

Passing the Richard Star Act would not only restore       financial fairness, but it would restore confidence among       combat-injured veterans that their sacrifice is recognized       equally.

It would also help veterans like Dan Nevins from Florida. His  military career was ended when an improvised explosive device detonated  beneath his vehicle during his deployment to Iraq in 2004. He is a  bilateral amputee. He has overcome years of recurring infection and  countless surgeries. He says he has no regrets about his service. He  joined to serve his country. He believes it is worth fighting for.

These veterans deserve elected officials who will fight for them and  deliver the benefits they have earned. In the words of Barry Jesinoski,  the DAV's national adjutant and CEO:

Respect without action is meaningless.

A message to my colleagues: Respect without action is meaningless.  Rhetoric without action is meaningless. Words without action are  worthless. So let's put the politics aside and listen to our veterans.  Let's pass the Richard Star Act today.

1032, the Major Richard  Star Act; that the bill be considered read a third time and passed; and  that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the  table.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am saddened, I am angered, and I am  heartbroken for the veterans across this great country that the Senate  is failing to match their courage and dedication and failing to keep  faith with them. I am heartbroken for a nation that can afford to spend  tens of billions of dollars, as we are doing right now--perhaps  hundreds of billions--in a conflict far away, putting American lives in  harm's way, causing deaths--six, at least, so far--and casualties in  realtime when we are failing to match their bravery with our own. It is  unconscionable. A lot of words, a lot of numbers, a lot of fallback to  Senate procedures, process--meaningless--the words and numbers are  meaningless to veterans who are deprived of benefits they have earned,  benefits they have been promised.

So I regret my colleague's objection to this bill. I believe he is in  a small minority of this body. He has a right to object under our  rules.

But I would like to offer to him a commonsense middle ground. Even if  we don't have unanimous consent to pass the Major Richard Star Act  right now and support our combat-injured veterans, let's agree to a  vote. Give us a vote. That is our job--to vote.

I have a time agreement here that would authorize the Senate to take  a single up-and-down vote on passage of this bill before August, not  precipitously--sometime before August--one vote scheduled by the  majority leader, Senator Thune, at his discretion. It could start and  finish in 45 minutes. It simply guarantees one vote on passage at a 60- vote, filibuster-proof threshold. That is our rule.

And I would offer, most respectfully, that surely this great body can  afford a half hour or 45 minutes to give our combat-injured veterans a  vote on restoration of their hard-earned benefits.

Let us vote. That is our job. Let us give our veterans an up-or-down  vote on a matter of simple justice: benefits they have been promised.

1032; further, that there be up to 2  hours for debate on the bill, equally divided between the two leaders  or their designees, and that upon the use or yielding back of that  time, the bill be considered read a third time, and the Senate vote on  passage of the bill, with 60 affirmative votes required for passage,  all without further intervening action or debate and no amendments or  motions in order to the bill prior to the vote on passage.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, we have regular order in the Senate,  and there is regular order in the military. I will have a hard time  looking in the eye of those soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, and  Coast Guard members who are in conflict, in harm's way, right now in  the Middle East, defending the national security of this great Nation.  I will have a hard time explaining to them what ``regular order'' means  when they are combat injured and they suffer, dollar for dollar, their  retirement pay because they are receiving disability benefits when they  are injured--right now--in this conflict.

I don't know how I can look them in the eye. I don't know how any  Member of the U.S. Senate can look them in the eye and explain: We  won't vote because of regular order. That is a mockery of democracy,  and it is shameful.