-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692840/9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am so honored to follow my colleague  from Wisconsin, who has been such a steadfast and strong partner in  this effort to advance the Women's Health Protection Act.

I will be honest in this Chamber. When we first introduced this  measure, almost 15 years ago, the idea that Roe v. Wade could or would  be tossed aside was unimaginable. It was firmly established law for  decades, relied on by American women and men.

In a stroke of catastrophic, misguided ruling, the Supreme Court cast  it aside, ignoring strong precedent and all the doctrines of law that  normally would apply. So the Women's Health Protection Act now is more  necessary than ever before, certainly than in the days when we first  offered it.

My own involvement, actually, in this issue began when I was a law  clerk to Justice Blackmun in the year after Roe v. Wade. There was  still controversy about whether Roe would survive. But in decision  after decision, the U.S. Supreme Court reaffirmed it. And, in fact, as  a member of the Connecticut State Senate, I offered a bill, and it  passed, to codify Roe v. Wade in our State laws in Connecticut.

Connecticut has led the Nation proudly in protecting reproductive  rights, in safeguarding access to clinics where abortion services are  provided, in fighting for Planned Parenthood funding, in protecting  doctors who provide these critical services to women coming from other  States that may actually criminalize that kind of care.

But we know now what the challenge is and what we must do. The  Women's Health Protection Act should be the law of our land. But in the  meantime, we have to fight the efforts to handicap and straitjacket  women in their efforts simply to seek basic healthcare.

We are in the midst of an assault on women's healthcare. It is really  an attack on women and families.

Men have a stake in this fight. You cannot escape this issue simply  because you are a man. It affects you and your family as much as it  does women.

The decision in Dobbs stripped millions of women of the freedom to  make their own healthcare decisions. The idea that Dobbs would simply  return the issue of reproductive rights to the State was always  disingenuous. States across the country have created a full-blown  healthcare crisis in the chaos and confusion that has ensued.

Since Dobbs, more than 31 million women live in States where abortion  is banned or under the threat of banning it, and nearly 9 million women  live in the 12 States with bills proposing to bring homicide charges  against them for having an abortion.

The effects of Dobbs don't have to be a matter of speculation  anymore. I actually commissioned or requested a study from the GAO in  2022 about the economic effects of Dobbs. That report has just been  released 3 years later. My first reaction was: Why did it take so long?  My second reaction was: Thank goodness you took that long and you did  an honest and accurate appraisal of what the effects are.

Here is the bottom line: Dobbs has been a death sentence--literally,  a death sentence--for countless women, and it has been a condemnation  to financial disaster for many more.

This study shows, inextricably, the link between denial of healthcare  and the maternal mortality rate for women and their financial distress,  even if they survive.

The Trump administration has aggravated this problem in, literally,  just recent weeks. On June 19, 2025, a Trump-appointed Federal judge  struck down a Biden administration rule that strengthened privacy  protections for information related to productive healthcare, such as  abortion and gender-affirming care.

On March 5, 2025, President Trump announced his administration would  no longer enforce a Federal law that requires hospitals to provide  women abortion care in an emergency when their lives are threatened.  When, literally, they could die, no longer will emergency rooms be  required to provide that care.

On April 1 of this year, the Trump administration began withholding  tens of millions of dollars under title X in family grants for Planned  Parenthood and other organizations in our country that support critical  family planning efforts and preventive healthcare, including cancer  screening, pregnancy testing, birth control, treatment of sexually  transmitted infections, infertility services, and more. It is not just  efforts to prevent abortion; it is a war on women's health, launched by  this administration. And, unfortunately, this administration is just  getting started.

The fact is that unsafe and unintended pregnancies have huge costs in  lives and dollars, impacting all of us. That is why I am proud to live  in Connecticut that has expanded abortion care and ensured that women  in other States could access compassionate care if necessary.

But the attacks by Republicans continue, and they are attacks on  reproductive freedom, on women's healthcare, seeking now to restrict  access to abortion medication, refusing to recognize the right to use  contraceptives, working to defund preventive healthcare through  Medicaid in clinics like Planned Parenthood.

I am proud to continue this fight. It is a fight that we absolutely  must win. It may not be in the next days, but we will be fighting in  the next days against the provisions of this ``Big Ugly Betrayal'' that  so disgrace our Nation if passed.

I am grateful for all of the Members on our side who are joining us  today on this third anniversary of Dobbs to say: Enough is enough. We  need to protect reproductive freedoms from this onslaught against  women.