Blumenthal, Murphy Announce Federal Grants Boosting Capacity Resources for Connecticut Health Centers Amid Coronavirus Pandemic


U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) announced nearly $1.2 million in federal grants to help Connecticut health centers in emergency planning and response to the coronavirus pandemic. The funding, made available through legislation recently approved by Congress, has been awarded to sixteen of Connecticut's Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) health centers throughout the state and is available immediately.

"This federal funding provides a much-needed boost of resources for Connecticut's HRSA-funded health centers in responding to the coronavirus pandemic," said Senators Blumenthal and Murphy. "Our health center workers are on the front lines of this crisis, tirelessly working in the community. These federal grants enable them to get the necessary personal protective equipment for their staff, screen and test patients, and expand telehealth capacity -- all necessary to help Connecticut win the fight against this pandemic. These health centers provide vital health care services to the people of Connecticut and we know more resources -- and the assurance of a long-term authorization -- are necessary to ensure they can continue this mission."

Connecticut health centers receiving the grants include Charter Oak Health Center in Hartford, Fair Haven Community Health Clinic in New Haven, and Optimus Health Care in Bridgeport. The full list of Connecticut health centers that have received federal funding can be found here.

The sixteen health centers will be able to use this funding to address evolving coronavirus needs in their communities, including purchasing medical supplies such as personal protective equipment (PPE), expanding screening and testing capacity, and providing safety education.

The funding, released by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), is made available through the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, which was signed into law on March 6. It provides $8.3 billion in emergency funding for federal agencies to respond to the pandemic, including $100 million for HRSA-funded health centers.