Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695920/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, my thoughts tonight are with the  millions of Americans who will bear the brunt of this shutdown: the  families in the path of hurricanes who will go without the services of  FEMA, the veterans who will lack many of the helping hands in the VA,  the recipients of Social Security who will be unable to verify their  cards or perhaps receive payments that they have been denied, and  others--millions of other Americans--who unnecessarily will be hurt,  perhaps people who depend on the social safety net that we have  established and may be torn by this shutdown.

And I am thinking about the millions of Americans--about 24 million  in total, 139,000 in Connecticut alone--who will be notified that they  can buy health insurance as a result of open enrollment, but what they  lack in information is whether or not that health insurance will be  affordable because they have no way of knowing whether it will extend  beyond the end of the year, those subsidies that are so essential to  their affording healthcare.

And our Republican colleagues--we just heard the Senator from Kansas  say there is no hurry. Well, Americans can't get sick on Donald Trump's  timetable. When people are told there is no hurry, if you get sick, for  medical care, that sounds cruel because it is cruel. And it is stupid.  People who go without health insurance may lack the healthcare that can  save costs of preventing more serious illness, and those costs  eventually are borne by all of us. So this misguided denial of the  certainty people need that healthcare insurance subsidies will be  extended beyond the end of the year really affects all of us. Premiums  are rising already for all of us by 18 percent this year alone because  the healthiest people are deciding they are not going to buy health  insurance, and insurance companies are predicting they will have to  increase their costs to cover the sicker people who will buy the health  insurance because they need it.

But the simple fact is, nobody is invincible. All of us need  healthcare. And the Affordable Care Act recognizes that healthcare in  America, aspirationally, should be a human right. And our failure to  provide it to those millions of Americans who will find healthcare  insurance unaffordable is unacceptable, and that is why we are taking  this stand and why America can't wait for Donald Trump to tell them  that they are sick enough now to be given this subsidy, which they  deserve.

I am here to urge my Republican colleagues to stop rolling over for  Donald Trump. Their constituents, as well as ours, are affected by this  delay in providing affordable health insurance. For months we have been  calling attention to the need to act now, and this shutdown was  avoidable. The path to stopping it was available. And shortening it,  assuming it will occur, is still a possibility, if we come together, if  Republicans are willing to negotiate, if they come back to town. House  Republicans are out of town. They are out of touch with reality. The  way forward is simply bipartisan negotiations, coming together,  reaching a solution, as is the way shutdowns have been avoided in the  past.

The fact is that Donald Trump's so-called Big Beautiful Bill-- actually a big, blatant betrayal--along with inaction and avoidance by  Republicans, is already wreaking havoc on America. In Connecticut,  health insurance rates for 2026 have increased by nearly 18 percent,  the largest increase in the last 6 years. Without the subsidies,  consumers with ACA coverage will see premium increases in the range of  75 percent.

I have visited with hospitals, community health centers, physicians,  and many more who have raised their deep concerns about the impending  cuts in Medicaid.

The budget bill Republicans passed in July is also threatening  Medicaid coverage for 158,000 Connecticut residents. Anyone lucky  enough to keep their coverage will see reduced benefits as the State  struggles to make up the difference in lost Federal revenue.

Americans and our healthcare system simply can't afford to be nickel- and-dimed like Republicans are forcing them to do. The ACA premium tax  credits have protected millions of Americans from higher healthcare  costs, they have reduced the number without healthcare insurance, and  they have provided robust choices for consumers and provided stability  for healthcare providers, particularly in rural areas, and there are  rural areas affected in Connecticut.

In addition to the impending cuts in Medicaid, Republicans are  refusing to extend these subsidies. It is cruel. It is unnecessary. It  is dumb.

So I am here to advocate for the 139,000 Connecticut residents who  depend on these credits and the 24 million Americans who are making  decisions about healthcare insurance coverage right now at their  kitchen tables, in their living rooms, in their homes.

It should not be a partisan issue. At the end of the day, it is a  choice: Do we choose a highly successful solution that has reduced  healthcare costs for the whole Nation or do we allow the clock to run  out and raise healthcare costs for families in every State in this  country?

That choice can still be made in the next 24 hours, in the next 2  days, to shorten and lessen the pain that will be felt by Americans.

I choose to stand with working families. I will fight, and we are  unified in our fight. As a matter of conscience and conviction, we will  not be bullied.

Donald Trump should know that we will stand strong for working  families in America. They deserve healthcare. It is about saving  healthcare and holding Donald Trump accountable to follow the law. When  there is a budget, when it is passed by Congress and signed by the  President, he cannot be allowed to simply ride roughshod over it and  disregard it.

It is the rule of law and healthcare that are at stake here. I will  fight for it.