Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702104/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-the-islamic-republic-of-iran-that-have-not-been


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, we are at a critical moment. It is a  crossroads for the American people.

The President is waging a war of choice. It is really a war of  impulse, a war of whim and illusion without the support of the American  people and without approval from the U.S. Congress, representing the  American people. Meanwhile, the costs of food and fuel--gasoline at the  pump and produce at the grocery store--all have soared. Healthcare is  unaffordable. Gas prices are going to continue to skyrocket.

The Secretary of Energy told us just last weekend that prices will  not come down appreciably before the end of the year. Of course, since  then, he has contradicted himself. His chain was yanked by the  President. But the reality is--and we need to stay in touch with  reality--that the costs of living for the everyday American are  skyrocketing out of sight.

Instead of doing something to lower those costs, Senate Republicans  just introduced a budget resolution to give $140 billion to ICE and the  CBP without any reform and without any changes in practices or policies  that will make them legal and humane. In fact, Senate Republicans are  willing to work overtime to deliver huge tax breaks to billionaires and  siphon hundreds of millions--in fact, billions--to ICE with no strings  attached.

When it comes to lowering costs for Americans, helping working  families, or making good on our promises to veterans, Republicans say:  We can't afford it. In fact, Senate Republican leadership has  continuously refused to advance bipartisan legislation to deliver for  combat-injured veterans that I have advocated for repeatedly and twice  asked for unanimous consent on the floor of this body to pass. Why?  They claim we can't afford those benefits.

Let's be very clear. The Major Richard Star Act will cost $1 billion  a year for the next 10 years. We are spending $2 billion a day on the  Iran war, and that figure probably is lowballed. The benefits equate to  1/14th of the money Republicans want to send to ICE. The same  Republicans who say we can't afford the time or the $13 billion to  ensure our combat-injured veterans receive their full earned benefits  will keep us here all night to spend $140 billion on ICE and CBP.

My legislation, the Major Richard Star Act, would finally deliver to  some 50,000 combat-injured veterans their full military benefits.  Currently, they are receiving a dollar-for-dollar reduction of their VA  retirement pay for every dollar of compensation for disability. That is  just plain wrong. They have earned both retirement pay and disability  benefits. One should not be docked dollar for dollar for the other. In  fact, it shouldn't be reduced at all. Most of this body--79 of my  Democratic and Republican colleagues--agree. They joined the  legislation. But the bill is still blocked from a simple floor vote by  Senate Republican leadership--the same leadership that is willing to  bend over backward to pass another partisan law to fund ICE.

Meanwhile, the President continues to send more servicemembers into  harm's way. Thousands more are heading to the Middle East right now.  But it falls on deaf ears for Republicans that claim veterans  initiatives like the Major Richard Star Act are too expensive while  they push hundreds of billions into Trump's rogue Agency or a war of  choice.

It seems to me Republicans can always find more money for tax cuts.  They can always find more money for benefits that go to the  billionaires, but not so much when we are talking about working  families or veterans.

The simple fact is--and remember this point if you remember nothing  else of what I say here--the cost of our taking care of veterans is the  cost of war. It is one that always must be paid. When we send a  servicemember into war, we are incurring an obligation. We have made a  promise. Those injuries result in disability benefits that should not  be reduced, nor should retirement pay, just because they are injured.  In  fact, they should not be punished for being injured. The President may  think veterans are suckers, but that is not what the American people  think.

As Memorial Day approaches, prove to veterans and Americans that you  really do appreciate their service. And remember that words, without  actions, are meaningless--totally meaningless.

And that is why I have introduced an amendment to strike the  reconciliation instruction and focus on providing for our combat- injured veterans who were forced to retire because of their injuries.  Give them the benefits they earned, the benefits they deserve, the  benefits they were promised.

Today, we have an opportunity to act and to do something meaningful  for the thousands of combat-injured veterans who have sacrificed on our  behalf. I urge my colleagues to make the right decision and support  this amendment to advance the Major Richard Star Act.

It isn't lost on me that while I am speaking here, urging for the  passage of an amendment that would help our veterans, the Trump  administration is actively harming them. Over the past year, the Trump  administration has begun deporting procedures for 34 former members of  the military and 248 relatives of former military members. This number  doesn't include the countless former military members that have been  swept up into detention by roving patrols and lawless arrests.

These individuals are real people. They are veterans who chose to  wear the uniform. They are not abstract entities. They are not numbers  or statistics. They are people who raised their right hand, willing to  give their lives for our country, veterans who served and sacrificed so  that we could celebrate Memorial Day, so that we could stand here and  speak as we wish and worship as we would like in the days ahead.

Take William Vermie, for example. He is an Army veteran, a Purple  Heart recipient, who served as a combat solder in Iraq. On January 13,  2026, he was on a public sidewalk, observing ICE arrest two young men  in his neighborhood. He was tackled. He was arrested. He was driven to  detention. He was held in a cell for 8 hours.

Or George Retes, a disabled Iraq War veteran who was detained for 3  days and 3 nights after being arrested on his way to work--on his way  to work. He has a job. He is a citizen. He is a veteran. He was  arrested and detained.

Family members of U.S. servicemembers and veterans have fared no  better. U.S. SSG Matthew Blank recently married his wife Annie and  brought her to his base, Fort Polk, LA, to begin their lives together.  Within hours, ICE entered his base and detained Annie, who was brought  to the United States as a toddler and has applied for DACA status.  Annie was released only after public outcry shamed the administration.

Last June, Narcisco Barranco, the father of three marines, was  clearing his weeds when immigration agents attacked him from behind and  placed him in deportation proceedings. Mr. Barranco has no criminal  record. He has been in the United States for 3 decades.

And just this week, Sergeant First Class Serrano's wife, Deisy Rivera  Ortega, was arrested by ICE during her appointment at an immigration  office in Texas.

None of these people sought to hide or conceal themselves or run.  They were there. And she was at an appointment at an immigration office  in Texas. She had been in the United States for over a decade and has  legal protection that prohibits her deportation to El Salvador and  allows her to legally work. She was at the immigration office,  interviewing, as part of an application for parole in place, a program  specifically designated to offer protections to military spouses and  their parents.

This stuff is just unbelievably cruel. It is illegal. It is inhumane.  But it is also savagely mean and wrong. To encourage the men and women  of our armed services to apply for protection for their spouses or  their parents, only to have those applications entrap their loved ones,  spirit them away to detention, and wreak havoc in their lives--is that  the America that we want?

It is not the America I recognize as my country, nor would most  Americans.

These servicemembers, veterans, and their family members were not  convicted of any crime. They were not committing any crime. They were  doing the right thing--in the offices of the U.S. Government, some of  them--when they were tackled, arrested, and detained by the same  government that gave them so much to serve.

Marine Corps cadets could not even enjoy their graduation this year  without fear after the Marine Corps issued a warning that ICE agents  would be conducting ``enhanced screening and lawful immigration status  inquiries'' outside the Parris Island base, prior to graduation events.

What did that mean? Marine Corps privates, graduating from Parris  Island--and I have been there--had to fear that their relatives coming  to watch their graduation on that drill field could be arrested and  detained.

Some cadets were forced to forgo celebrating because they feared for  their loved ones. That is not how we honor courage and sacrifice. That  is not how we plan to commend the individuals who choose to serve. Such  efforts will not help us to recruit the next generation of brave and  bright men and women for our military. It only demonstrates how little  the Trump administration values people who put their lives on the line.

As Republicans propose sending another $140 billion to ICE and CBP,  let's ask them whether they share the same disregard for our troops and  veterans. I hope they will join me in saying: Enough is enough.

The absence of reform, in connection with this huge amount of  funding--$140 billion--is absolutely reprehensible and unacceptable. It  is unconscionable to shovel more money--$140 billion--without  fundamental changes that will stop the abuses and many others of the  kind I have just described.

I ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to join me in  saying: America is still the land of the free and the home of the brave  because of the brave who protect the free. And let us cherish those  freedoms and make them real, not just in rhetoric but in the reforms we  demand of the U.S. Government when it is engaged in lawless and  reckless conduct.