Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleagues,  many of whom have spoken already in support of S.J. Res. 68, which I am  proud to cosponsor. It prohibits an unauthorized, unconstitutional war  with Iran. It seeks to prevent the Trump administration from stumbling  into a real and reckless military conflict. I want to thank bipartisan  colleagues who have provided leadership in this effort, and it has been  truly bipartisan as an effort. I appreciate their efforts and from many  other colleagues to reassert our constitutional war powers and to  represent the will of the American people. 

  Americans do not want a new war. They do not want another endless  military conflict that harms our national interests without protecting  our national security. The Constitution trumps any statute. Without  congressional authorization and anything short of a declaration of war  from the Congress, starting a war with Iran would be unconstitutional. 

  Congress did not authorize war with Iran when it passed an  authorization to use force against al-Qaida more than 18 years ago in  the wake of 9/11. Congress did not authorize war with Iran when it  passed an authorization to use military force against Saddam Hussein's  regime in 2002. Very simply, Congress has not authorized war with Iran  in any way, shape, or legal form. 

  The President's authorizations for use of military force in no way  cover starting a new war with Iran. We cannot let the intent of either  of those authorizations to be so distorted and stretched as to be a  pretense for such a war. That is why this resolution is so important. I  urge my colleagues to vote in favor of it tomorrow. 

  But just as alarming as the lack of legal authorization for war, is  the Trump administration's lack of strategy. It isn't that we have a  dangerous policy toward Iran. It is that we have no policy, no  strategy, and no endgame, which is the most dangerous situation of all. 

  I am pleased that we have deescalated the dramatic rise in tensions  between Iran and the United States, which well serves the interests of  both countries. We must continue the potential for reducing, not  escalating, military tensions, but President Trump's reckless actions  that brought us so close to military conflict are still in play. We  need to continue to deescalate, not raise, the level of tension, if  possible. 

  These kinds of reckless actions, in fact, brought us close to  expulsion from Iraq and halted key training exercises with our allies  in the counter-ISIS mission. As is the case with most of the Trump  administration's military strategy--or lack of it--we are just lurching  from one crisis to another, with no objectives, no means to an end, no  decision on ending, all putting our security and our allies at grave  risk. Congress, not to its credit, has failed to conduct critical  public oversight that is necessary to hold the administration  accountable and to insist on a strategy, an endgame, a set of  objectives. 

  The Trump administration has kept Congress and the American people in  the dark under the guise of classification. I will say, on a personal  note, that at the end of so many of our classified briefings in the  SCIF, I will say to a military officer or to an intelligence community  representative: Our adversaries and our enemies know what you have just  told us because you are telling us about what they are doing. And they  know we know, and we know they know. In fact, they know a great deal  about what we are doing. The only ones who don't know are the American  people. They are kept in the dark. 

  The Trump administration cannot wage war while hiding behind  classification gag orders behind closed doors. The Trump administration  tried to make the claim that there was an ``imminent threat'' to  justify the strike against Soleimani. I disagree. The Trump  administration failed to provide the evidence in any setting,  classified or not, to support this claim, and the American people  deserve to know our path forward with Iran. 

  There is no conceivable reason that our goals must be kept secret  from Members of Congress or the people we represent, and we certainly  must prevent a reckless administration from pursuing a war when it is  unwilling to account to the American people. In short, there is a  fundamental purpose that is served by a declaration of war. It gives  the people who will have to sacrifice in that war a voice in the  decision. We represent those people--the families of soldiers, marines,  airmen, and sailors whose lives will be in harm's way, as well as  themselves. It gives a voice to the experts in this body who may have a  perspective and a wisdom on these topics. That is a useful check on the  executive branch. 

  Let us not forget that military actions conducted without a strategy  and without the consent of the American people have real consequences  for all who serve our Nation in uniform. 

  We continue to hear reports about the number of troops who have  suffered brain injuries in the Iran strike against Iraq military bases.  The total is now up to 109 American servicemembers. The President of  the United States has minimized those kinds of injuries as headaches,  but, in fact, traumatic brain injury--concussion, post-traumatic  stress--are among the most painful and damaging wounds of war, in part  because they are invisible and they are sometimes minimized. 

  So let us never forget the consequences of war--the consequences to  our economy, to our faith in American democracy, to the credibility of  our leaders, to our people in lives lost and damaged. That is true  especially of a war that has never been authorized by Congress and  fails to have the support of the American people. 

  That is why this vote is so important today. There are many, many  reasons to vote in favor of S.J. Res. 68. I call on my colleagues to  send a clear, unmistakable message to this administration: You do not  have congressional authorization, you do not have the support of the  American people, and you do not have permission from this Congress,  under the Constitution, to wage war or to begin it against Iran. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT