Harris, Warren, Blumenthal, Coons, Jayapal, Sarbanes, Colleagues Officially Introduce the CORE Act


U.S. Senator Kamala D. Harris (D-CA) on Monday joined Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Chris Coons (D-DE), and Co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus Representative Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), and the Chair of the House Democracy Reform Task Force Representative John Sarbanes (D-MD) in officially introducing the Coronavirus Oversight and Recovery Ethics (CORE) Act, legislation that would ensure stronger oversight, accountability, and transparency in the federal government's response to the COVID-19 crisis. The provisions must be core to any relief bill to ensure taxpayer dollars do not serve the interests of the wealthy or well-connected to the exclusion of the American people. Harris' applauds the inclusion of her own whistleblower protection bill, the COVID-19 Whistleblower Protection Act.  

"As our country continues to address the COVID-19 pandemic, it is crucial that federal assistance is used for its intended purpose rather than line the pockets of corporate executives. Those who come forward to report misuse of funds or wrongdoing must be protected from retaliation or punishment. I am proud to lend my whistleblower protections to this broad package of reforms. Now more than ever, we must maintain the American people's faith that taxpayer dollars are not abused. This legislation will allow us to do that," said Senator Harris. 

"The CORE Act would empower independent oversight, protect whistleblowers, and stop government-sanctioned corruption and profiteering to ensure the health and safety of Americans come first," said Senator Warren. "Congress must pass our bill in the next relief package to hold the Trump administration accountable as they hand out trillions of dollars in response to the COVID-19 crisis."

"President Trump's war on independent oversight and his purging of the ranks of Inspectors General is a crisis - a pernicious and ongoing attack on the building blocks of our democracy. Just days ago, Secretary Mnuchin called the recipients of taxpayer COVID-19 relief 'proprietary information' while refusing to disclose which giant corporations and Trump donors had accessed money meant for small businesses. Strong oversight isn't about political punishment, it's about making sure that the people who really need relief are the ones who receive it. Real accountability demands a watchdog, not a lapdog, to stop the waste, fraud and favoritism pervading this Administration," said Senator Blumenthal. 

"Every single penny of taxpayer money allocated by Congress for COVID-19 relief should go to families, communities and businesses in need, period," said Senator Coons. "We have to ensure that aid is going to workers and businesses who need it most, not just the businesses with the most political connections. This important legislation will ensure that inspectors general can do their jobs and provide real accountability for the trillions in taxpayer dollars we're investing to keep our economy afloat."

"As families and small businesses struggle to stay afloat during a historic mass unemployment crisis that has seen more than 40 million workers file for unemployment, President Trump and his administration have continued to do what they do best-spread corruption, enrich giant corporations, muzzle the truth and reward their megadonor allies," said Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal. "I'm proud that our CORE Act boldly responds to this corrupt behavior by ensuring the public knows which businesses are getting COVID-19 relief, shining a light on big-money corporate lobbying for these funds and allowing whistleblowers who see illegal, dangerous or wasteful behavior by corporations and the government to speak out without fear."

"COVID-19 relief must go to those who need it most. American families, small businesses, health care providers and state and local governments are hurting and we must do all we can to block special interests and corporate insiders from gaming the system," said Congressman Sarbanes. "The CORE Act will establish robust oversight and anti-corruption standards to prevent just that and ensure the Trump Administration does not waste taxpayer dollars with giveaways to their wealthy and well-connected political donors."

The CORE Act has endorsements from 57 organizations, 8 Senate original co-sponsors and 18 House co-sponsors.

Along with Harris, Warren, Blumenthal, and Coons, the CORE Act is cosponsored by Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM). 

Along with Jayapal and Sarbanes, the CORE Act is cosponsored by Representatives Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Max Rose (D-NY), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Susan Wild (D-PA), Chris Pappas (D-NH), Joe Kennedy III (D-MA), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Joe Neguse (D-CO), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Katie Porter (D-CA), Josh Harder (D-CA), Mary Gay Scanlon (D-PA), Kim Schrier, M.D. (D-WA), and Kathy Castor (D-FL).