Letter to Speaker Pelosi, Leader McCarthy, Leader McConnell, and Leader Schumer - Wyden, Merkley Call for Robust Funding to Aid the Homeless in Next COVID-19 Relief Package


Dear Speaker Pelosi, Leader McCarthy, Leader McConnell, and Leader Schumer,

We write today to urge your strong consideration of further robust funding for the EmergencySolutions Grants (ESG) program under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act in thenext relief package. The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has left the nation facingunprecedented public health and economic crises that have exacerbated underlying inequities anddevastated those already living on the margins. Individuals and families experiencinghomelessness are particularly vulnerable to the effects of these crises. Lacking both safe, stableshelter and access to medical resources, those experiencing homelessness continue to be amongthe hardest hit by this pandemic.

On any given night, half a million people in the United States will face homelessness. Thisincludes more than 50,000 families with children, who often turn to emergency shelters forhousing. These congregate settings can accelerate the spread of COVID-19, particularly among apopulation disproportionately more likely to have underlying health conditions. Thesevulnerabilities put both those experiencing homelessness and our frontline healthcare and humanservices workers at higher risk.

Moreover, this pandemic has further exposed decades-long structural inequities such as the lackof access to affordable health care and stable housing that have resulted in substantialsocioeconomic disparities in COVID-19 outcomes. According to a new report, thoseexperiencing homelessness are twice as likely to be hospitalized, up to four times more likely toneed critical care, and two to three times more likely to die as the general population fromCOVID-19. These inequities have cut across racial lines as Black and brown communities have experienced a disproportionate number of infections, hospitalizations, and death due to COVID-19.

This is as much an issue of racial justice as public health. HUD's own reporting indicates that themajority of homeless families in the U.S. are Black. While African Americans make up 13% ofthe population, they account for more than 40% of those experiencing homelessness. Thesedisparities in health and housing together make Black Americans disproportionately likely tocontract coronavirus and suffer adverse consequences.

Communities across the U.S. have stepped up where this administration has chosen to standdown, and have worked to use existing funding to meet the need for emergency shelter andservices. However, more support from Congress is necessary to fully fund efforts to serve andprotect those without shelter. The flexibility of ESG funding allows states, localities, andnonprofits to react quickly to the needs of these vulnerable communities, including through rapidrehousing and expedited long-term rehousing, helping to lessen the density of, and reliance on,temporary shelters. These funds may also be used for sanitation efforts such as portable handwashing stations and the purchase of hand sanitizer and personal protective equipment, soindividuals can follow the health practices recommended by public health experts to halt thespread of coronavirus.

While the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act provided an initial $4 billion inESG funds, significantly more funding is needed. Experts have identified that a total of $15.5billion in ESG program funding is necessary to meet the needs during this pandemic. Thereforewe support funding for the ESG program of at least $11.5 billion in the next stimulus package tosupport state, county and local efforts to protect our neighbors experiencing homelessness andthe frontline providers supporting them through this public health crisis.

We ask for your strong consideration of this request, and thank you for your consideration.