Letter to Doug McMillon, President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart Inc. - Booker Leads Colleagues in Pressing Walmart on Workplace Safety


Dear Mr. McMillon:We write to express our concerns about the challenges many Walmart workers are facing asthey attempt to continue working while keeping themselves and their families safe from COVID19. These concerns have only grown with the news that multiple Walmart employees have diedfrom coronavirus, including multiple employees from the same Walmart facility. While manyretail stores are experiencing financial hardships due to the COVID-19 outbreak, Walmart hasseen its demand skyrocket, causing Walmart to hire an additional 150,000 employees since thepublic health crisis began in order to keep up with demand.We write today to strongly urge you to do more to prioritize the health, safety, and well-being ofyour employees who are also our constituents, friends, family members, and neighbors. Weunderstand that Walmart has attempted to implement positive changes, many of which wereoutlined in a memo dated March 31st. However, reports from several Walmart workers suggestthose changes have not been fully or properly implemented. Specifically, we have heard fromconstituents who are Walmart employees that the personal protective equipment provided is inshort supply, of poor quality, and that the gloves and masks only come in one size that is oftentoo small for many of the workers who have to use them. Workers at other Walmart locationshave reported that the store in which they work has not implemented a number of thesafeguards announced in the March 31st memo, including conducting regular temperaturechecks and installing plexiglass shields at checkout stations. Additionally, workers at otherfacilities report that the store in which they work is not limiting the number of customers allowedinside, despite Walmart announcing that they would as a new policy, undermining efforts toallow for social distancing. We are also concerned by Walmart's paid sick leave policy--webelieve it is absolutely critical that those who are experiencing symptoms and those who feel theneed to self-quarantine are able to access paid leave. No worker should be forced to choosebetween their paycheck on one hand and the health and health of their colleagues and yourcustomers on the other--a choice that many Walmart employees find themselves having tomake.We recognize the fast-moving nature of this pandemic, and we appreciate Walmart's attemptsto implement certain necessary workplace protections. But every day that goes by without theseprotections fully and properly implemented puts the lives of more and more Americans at risk.Given the size of your operation, any failure of Walmart to keep its workforce safe does not onlyput your employees at risk, it puts the entire country at risk.We ask that you provide a written response to the concerns raised in this letter, and to thequestions listed below, no later than April 27th.● Will Walmart agree to provide paid sick leave to all workers who are experiencingsymptoms or feel like they need to self-quarantine without requiring a formal diagnosis?● What steps is Walmart taking to ensure that all of your facilities are adopting theprescribed changes meant to keep your workers safe?● Will Walmart agree to temporarily close any store for deep cleaning whenever a workertests positive and provide 14 days paid leave to all workers who were potentiallyexposed to allow them to quarantine before returning to work?● Please share a copy of Walmart's policies and protocols for informing workers andcustomers when another worker or customer in a store tests positive for coronavirus.● How many Walmart employees have tested positive for coronavirus? Please provide alist of Walmart facilities in which more than one worker has tested positive forcoronavirus.● Does your Leave of Absence (LOA) policy ensure that employees are able to come backto their jobs and salaries after taking leave?