Letter to the Hon. Christopher Wray, Dir. of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Hon. Christopher Krebs, Dir. of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency - Tillis, Blumenthal, Cornyn and Sasse: Chinese Government Attempts to Steal COVID-19 Vaccine and Treatment Data A Threat to National Security


Dear Director Wray and Director Krebs: 

We write you today regarding a recent joint notice issued by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency (CISA). This notice alerted American companies and research institutions about attempts by hackers affiliated with the Chinese government to target and steal intellectual property.

This announcement is alarming and we appreciate you notifying the public of this ongoing threat. While any government sponsored hacking of American companies is a cause for concern, it is especially troublesome that the Chinese government would target companies developing vaccines and treatments for the novel coronavirus.

According to the notice, these hacks jeopardized the delivery of "secure, effective, and efficient treatment option[s]." Any action that affects the development of treatment options--including attempted theft of American intellectual property--is a threat to our health, economic recovery, and national security. It is absolutely unacceptable for Chinese government affiliated hackers to attempt to steal or disrupt important research from companies and institutions who are developing essential diagnostics, cures, and treatments. 

We wish to reiterate the request you made for any American companies or research institutions developing COVID-19 related intellectual property to take advantage of resources offered by CISA to prevent potential cyber intrusions. We hope that any company or institution that believes it is or was a target will report the intrusion to the FBI without delay.

We are confident that the FBI, CISA, and other involved federal agencies are working tirelessly to prevent attacks such as this. We are grateful to the dedicated agents and staff who are part of this effort, and we wish to support you in every possible way in these efforts.

Accordingly, we ask that you answer the following questions in a classified briefing with our staff by no later than June 20, 2020:

1. What additional statutory tools or authorities do your agencies require to more effectively combat state-sponsored hacking of American companies?2. What additional financial resources or appropriations do you require in order to prevent and investigate further attempted thefts and intrusions?3. What steps are your agencies taking--besides the recently published notice--to inform American companies or research institutions about the threats posed by Chinese hackers? In addition, what steps are you taking to help companies and research institutions increase their cybersecurity and prevent further intrusions?

Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please know that as you continue to combat state sponsored hacking and the theft of American intellectual property we stand ready and willing to assist you. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us.