Letter to Mike Kaufmann, Chief Executive Officer for CardinalHealth - Warren and Blumenthal to Medical Equipment Wholesalers: Explain Your Role in the Jared Kushner-Led "Project Air Bridge" that Failed to to Provide Critical Supplies for States' COVID-19 Responses


Dear Mr. Kaufmann:

We write to inquire about your company's interactions with the White House Coronavirus TaskForce, the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and other executive branchentities distributing medical supplies during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)pandemic.

Last month, the Trump administration initiated what White House Senior Advisor, JaredKushner, described as an "unprecedented public-private partnership" with private sectormedical supply companies, called "Project Air Bridge."2 Through this program, the federalgovernment pays for medical supplies--including masks, face shields, gowns, and gloves--to beshipped by air freight, expediting shipments that would otherwise be made by ocean freight.Upon landing in the United States, half of the supplies are "directed by the distributors tocustomers within hotspot areas," with the remaining half being fed into "distributors' normalsupply chain and onto their customers across the U.S."

We applaud and support efforts to quickly bring medical supplies to states, territories, and tribalnations who desperately need them, but we are concerned by the Trump Administration'sprocess for doing so, which appears to be--at least in part--driven by politics rather than publichealth, and delegates decisions about distribution to private companies with little to notransparency about how distribution and pricing decisions are made.

The administration has not been clear about how it determines which areas of the country areCOVID-19 "hotspots." Briefing points indicate that the areas are "determined by HHS andFEMA based on CDC data," but the administration has not answered requests for more detailfrom reporters, nor from members of Congress, and public statements by President Trump andothers indicate that these decisions are partly influenced by politics and the whims of thePresident.

The administration has also provided little explanation of what happens to the half of suppliesthat are fed into the "normal supply chain." In expediting shipments, the administration hasreportedly saved medical supply companies more than $25 million in shipping costs.The leader of the administration's Supply Chain Task Force has stated that he is "not here to disrupt asupply chain."9 But given the "unprecedented" nature of this partnership, and the numerousreported problems with states and hospital officials being unable to obtain personal protectiveequipment (PPE) and other medical supplies, or having shipments of these materials seized byfederal officials and spirited to unknown destinations, the American people need an explanationfor how these supplies are obtained, priced, and distributed through Project Air Bridge.Unfortunately, neither the administration nor your company has explained critical details, such asthe content of any existing contracts or financial agreements.

Some states are reportedly bidding against each other on the open market for supplies, paying upto 10 times the normal prices for some goods.12 This raises the question of how prices are beingestablished and who exactly is profiting off of this unprecedented crisis that has claimed the livesof tens of thousands of Americans.

One of the companies participating in Project Air Bridge told the LA Times that its agreement with the administration stipulates that it charge"reasonable" prices, but provided no detail beyond that.Even if your company is indeed charging "reasonable" prices, we are concerned that the supplies, once sold, may ultimately be making their way to third-party sellers that jack up the prices, as some state officials believe.

Our concerns about states' ability to acquire supplies quickly and at a reasonable cost areamplified by reports that federal agents appears to be seizing purchases of medical supplies forredistribution.The chief physician executive of a Massachusetts hospital system recentlydescribed the measures that he had to take in order to protect a shipment of face masks andrespirators from being seized by the Federal Bureau of Investigations and the Department ofHomeland Security (of which FEMA is a part), including transporting the supplies in trucksdisguised as food-service vehicles.In explaining its actions, FEMA has issued a series ofstatements that fail to explain why it might be seizing supplies, the extent to which it is doing so,or what it is doing with them after seizure. After seizing supplies earmarked for first respondersin Milford, MA, a FEMA spokesperson said that, "PPE being distributed internally within theUnited States is not being seized or re-routed by FEMA. Reports of FEMA commandeering orre-routing such supplies are false." FEMA then provided a statement describing Project AirBridge, adding that the agreement by which "companies are obligated to sell a predeterminedpercentage of their cargo to areas that HHS and FEMA identified as hot spots may bemisconstrued as FEMA "commandeering' supplies from the company or their customers."18FEMA's description of Project Air Bridge, as a response to explain where the order of supplieswent, raises even more questions, raising the possibility that supplies--already ordered and paidfor by a state--are being taken by FEMA, entrusted to a private medical supplier, sold to a thirdparty broker, and then auctioned back to that same state for an outrageous price after a delay ofdays or weeks.

Between reports of shortages across the country, seizures of supplies by the government, andoutrageous prices, there is an extraordinary level of confusion and dismay about the current stateof the medical supply chain. Given the critical need for supplies as the pandemic continues tounfold, the administration's continued stonewalling about Project Air Bridge, and the fact thatyour company is in a position of knowledge about the supply chain, we request that you answerthe following questions by May 8, 2020.1. How was your company selected as a participant in Project Air Bridge?2. What specific contracts or agreements are in place between you and federal governmententities regarding Project Air Bridge? With what agencies has your company signed theseagreements?3. How do you receive medical supplies and PPE from Project Air Bridge? What costs doyou pay for the federal government's transport of these items, and how does it compare toyour typical costs for obtaining items from suppliers?4. How has your company distributed medical supplies and PPE?a. How is your company or the government determining which half of supplies willbe distributed to hotspots, and which half will instead be fed into the "normalsupply chain"? For example, are medical supplies being divided into halves bynumber of unit? Cost? Is each category of medical product being dividedseparately?b. Have you been provided with instructions to distribute supplies to COVID-19"hotspots"? Please provide any lists of hotspots that have been provided to you, aswell as any relevant dates for which those lists were current.c. How is your company distributing the supplies that are fed into its "normal supplychain"? Are these supplies going to orders that were placed before the initiation ofProject Air Bridge? Are they going to existing customers under renegotiatedterms? Are they auctioned to the highest bidder? Please describe your company'spractices in as much detail as possible.5. Please provide a full accounting of the distribution of all medical supplies and equipmentthat you have been provided via Project Air Bridge, including a list of all COVID-19-related supplies and PPE you have received, the quantity of each item, and informationon where this quantity has been distributed, including a list of how much each recipient(states, localities, and tribal governments, hospitals or medical systems, or other thirdparties) has received.

 How do you determine selling prices for medical equipment and PPE that you haveobtained via Project Air Bridge?What restrictions, if any, dictate your ability to set prices on medical suppliesdistributed via Project Air Bridge? One report says that your company is requiredto charge "reasonable" prices.20 Please describe any such requirements in detail.How is the government monitoring and enforcing compliance with suchrequirements?7. Please provide a full accounting of the cost and pricing of all medical supplies andequipment that you have been provided via Project Air Bridge, including a list of (1)average cost to obtain each type of supply or equipment, (2) your average selling pricesfor each type of supply or equipment, and (3) your average selling price for each piecesof supply or equipment for each major recipient (states, localities, and tribalgovernments, hospitals or medical systems, or other third-parties).8. Is your company entrusted with distributing pre-existing orders of supplies that are seizedby FEMA? Has it been given any directives on how to distribute these supplies?

Sincerely,