Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696112/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-north-dakota-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am here to talk about a bill that is  a matter of fundamental fairness to our veterans and most especially to  our combat-injured veterans--a group that should evoke the sympathies  and support of our Nation as no other.

I am here to talk about the Major Richard Star Act. Many of my  colleagues know about it because 76 Members of this body are  cosponsors. That is a large number, but so far, it has not been  sufficient to gain even a vote. So I am asking today that that support  be turned into action.

This bipartisan legislation will correct one of the deepest  injustices impacting disabled veterans. It is labeled by stakeholders  as the ``wounded veterans tax.''

The wounded veterans tax, as it stands now, causes more than 50,000  combat-injured veterans who were forced to retire to be barred from a  full military pension that they earned or were promised. Let me  explain. They are getting a dollar-for-dollar reduction of their  military retirement pay from their VA disability benefits. The  reduction, dollar-for-dollar, in their retirement pay is the result of  their receiving those disability benefits for their combat injuries.

They are entitled to each of the separate and distinct and different  forms of compensation. They have earned both. They are different,  separate, and distinct. But right now, under current law, they are  deprived of the full benefits of their pension because they were  injured in combat. Just to describe this injustice should make our  stomachs turn with outrage.

The Major Richard Star Act is really a commonsense bill. We use that  word, ``commonsense,'' all the time in this Chamber, but in this  instance, it seems particularly appropriate. It would right this  longstanding injustice and finally provide these military retirees  their full VA disability and Defense Department retirement benefits.

This cause is not only common sense, it is rightfully bipartisan. It  has received overwhelming support--those 76 cosponsors in this body but  also 304 cosponsors in the House of Representatives--and it is the  collectively top priority of the military and veterans services  organization communities of the United States. Yet, year after year,  this bill has stalled, and detractors have worked to deny a simple  vote.

Now, in public--critics have avoided taking a public position on the  bill, and they have given lipservice to veterans and advocates  requesting their support. What their real reasons are, I can't say.

But the fact of the matter is that these veterans have been denied  this simple justice.

And let me speak to those critics.

We can't balance the Federal budget on the backs of combat-injured  retirees. Doing so reneges on our obligation. It is a sacred obligation  to take care of veterans after their time in uniform.

The bill doesn't create some great, new, overly generous benefit, but  it would be enormously impactful and beneficial for each of those  retirees who would be affected. The average is about $1,200 a month-- some more, maybe some a little bit less. At $1,200 a month--you can do  the math--it is not a fortune, but it would make a difference in the  lives of these combat-injured veterans.

It simply ensures that the benefits we have promised and the benefits  they have earned are the benefits that are now delivered--it is that  simple--not clawed back, as happens now, from the heroes who have  sustained those combat-related injuries.

The veterans and heroes involved in these bills are similar to the  namesake of the bill, MAJ Richard Star, a decorated war veteran and  engineering officer in the Army. He suffered from lung cancer caused by  burn pit exposure.

We all know about Iraq and Afghanistan burn pit exposure. We passed  the PACT Act to provide care and benefits for victims of those burn  pits and exposure to other toxic chemicals.

They led to his retirement and his death in 2021. He was 51 years  old. Until  his death, he was a dedicated advocate for his fellow veterans and  combat-related disabilities.

His wife Tonya Star walked these halls by his side. She died in 2024.  She called my staff days before her passing, in tears because another  Congress had ended, in 2024, without a vote on the Richard Star Act.  Tonya knew the tremendous difference this legislation would make in the  lives of caregivers and widows like her.

It would make a difference also in the lives of veterans like Pat  Murray of North Kingstown, RI. Pat is a Marine Corps veteran and a  staunch veterans advocate. He recently welcomed a baby boy, and he was  forced to move back to Rhode Island to be closer to his family because  the injuries he sustained from an IED blast in Iraq made it difficult  to care for the newborn.

We need to be very clear. This act won't return his amputated leg.  But it can provide him and his family with desperately needed financial  certainty, which they deserve, they need, and they were promised.

And it would also help veterans like retired MSgt Gabriel Peterson of  Biloxi, MS. He was medically discharged as a result of reactive airway  disease. He is on five different drugs. They help with his breathing.  It is a struggle for him to live, and this act would ensure that he  could provide for his family, even if he is no longer able to be  employed.

The stories are powerful, and they are persuasive. They depict the  scope and impact of this act, if it were passed, in lifesaving and  life-enhancing benefits, and what it will mean to the tens of thousands  of veterans across this great Nation.

In fact, these veterans and their families--think of their families-- deserve a lot better. They deserve elected officials who will stand up  and deliver for them the benefits they were promised and the benefits  they earned; and they need them and deserve them today.

I am asking my colleagues to advance this legislation now. The  principle of taking care of our veterans has never been Democrat or  Republican. The Veterans' Affair Committee is supremely bipartisan. My  hope is that tradition will continue, including today.

So let's put politics aside. Let's put partisan differences aside and  finally do the right thing and advance this important legislation for  our Nation's veterans.

1032, the Major Richard Star Act; that  the bill be considered read a third time and passed; and that the  motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. I want to respond very briefly to my colleague from  Mississippi and my friend, the chairman of the Armed Services  Committee. We have worked together, as he does always, in a bipartisan  way on armed services issues. So what I am about to say is not personal  to him. In fact, I am willing to bet that it isn't his decision to  object here.

But I want to refute two points. No. 1, on double-dipping, let's be  clear that these are two separate programs, and the right to payment  under each of them is separately deserved. Not everyone who is entitled  to retirement pay gets disability benefits. You have to be in that club  that nobody wants to join of being combat injured. And it is a separate  form of right that in no way involves double-dipping, as we commonly  refer to it. The retirement pay is for years of service in the  military. VA disability compensation is for the loss of future earnings  due to service-connected injuries or illnesses.

And I just want to make clear that this point is really about equity  and fairness. Congress eliminated this option for nearly a million  veterans who have served 20 years and have a 50-percent VA disability  rating or higher. It has already dealt with one segment of this group.  This unjust assessment ultimately ought to be eliminated for all the  430,000 veterans who had their military retirement pay clawed back  because they are receiving VA disability benefits.

But we are starting here or taking the next step with 50,000 of those  430,000 who, in fairness, should receive both, the retirement pay and  disability benefits. And we are doing it because these 50,000 have  combat-related injuries.

And as to the total cost--again, not personal to my colleague from  Mississippi--but the CBO told us that the Republican-supported tax cuts  exploded the deficit by about $3.4 trillion.

Let me repeat that: $3.4 trillion, in large part tax cuts to people  who didn't need them.

These veterans need these benefits. This cost is a minuscule fraction  of those trillions. This country can afford to do right by these  combat-injured veterans. The DOD Office of the Actuary has indicated it  could implement the Richard Star Act in an ``actuarially sound  manner.''

It is not too costly. It is financially sound. I regret that the  Richard Star Act will not be passed today, but I have another measure  that I would like to bring to the floor. And it is, with regret, that  we are not providing unanimous consent to the bill itself.

And I understand the points made by my colleague, but I would like to  present a middle ground. Since we don't have unanimous consent for the  Major Richard Star Act today, let's agree to a vote. Let's have a time  agreement that would authorize the Senate to take a single up-or-down  vote on passage of this bill before the end of the year. This time  agreement doesn't guarantee passage. It simply guarantees a vote.

One vote, that is all I am asking. Give us a vote on passage of the  Major Richard Star bill, and it would be passage by a 60-vote margin,  filibuster proof. If we get 60 votes, the bill passes. If not, it goes  down. Let's do it before the end of the year.

I happen to think that we ought to spend whatever time is necessary  on this bill. But I understand that leadership is concerned about time.  And so my proposal strips away all the time-consuming procedural  stuff--I have another word for it--but it allows us to go forward  expeditiously. One vote scheduled entirely at Majority Leader Thune's  discretion, before the end of the year--it could start and finish in  half an hour or 45 minutes.

Surely, the Republican leadership can spare that short time,  scheduled at  their discretion, to give these combat-injured veterans a single vote  on this bill before the end of the year.

1032; further, that there be up to 2 hours of  debate on the bill, equally divided between the two leaders or their  designees, and that upon the use or yielding back of that time, the  bill be considered read a third time and the Senate vote on passage of  the bill, with 60 affirmative votes required for passage, all without  further intervening action or debate and no amendments or motions in  order to the bill prior to the vote on passage.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I respect the points that are being  made by my friend from Mississippi. In fact, we share support for every  one of those armed services measures that he had described, whether it  is bolstering our nuclear force, providing for more drone protection,  increasing well-deserved compensation for our military men and women,  and it is the reason why he has led, and I have supported, the current  National Defense Authorization Act that, hopefully, will be approved by  this body within days.

Where we differ is, I think, that I believe that the $9 billion or  $10 billion that would go to ensure fundamental fairness to our  military is there or a great nation should ensure it is there when we  are talking about the trillions that we will spend on many other  things, some of them very worthwhile, but, in my view, none more  worthwhile than doing right by these veterans.

It isn't double dipping. It isn't overly generous. It isn't going to  break the bank, so to speak. To the Federal Government as a whole, with  its trillions of dollars, it is a miniscule fraction; to those  veterans, it is not only a matter of quality of life and sometimes  survival, it is fundamental fairness.

They were promised. They have earned it. They deserve it. They need  it. They ought to have it.

And this measure simply would assure a vote--a vote. We ought to face  our responsibilities. Maybe my colleagues, even though 76 of them have  cosponsored--that is three quarters of this body--maybe it would still  fail for whatever reason. But I would like to take my chances. And I  assure my colleague from Mississippi, who I think supports the basic  goal from what he has said, that I will continue fighting and working  for this measure to pass. I know there is deep and broad support in  this body for it, and I look forward to a time when he and I will be on  the floor together, both of us, supporting this measure in a vote.

I am not giving up, and I am very hopeful that this cause will  continue to be bipartisan.