Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Federal Communications Commission Relating to ``Addressing the Homework Gap Through the E-Rate Program''


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am here to speak against S.J. Res.  7.

This resolution would prevent millions of students, educators, and  families from getting online--literally from enjoying the vast benefits  and resources of the online world.

Today, students and educators are dependent on broadband to learn and  teach, to communicate with each other, to establish relationships and  communities. Digital education has allowed for more flexible learning  opportunities for all of us, whatever our ages, but most specifically,  for students doing their homework, doing lectures, engaging in  discussions, and so much more--all of it online. It is a different  world, and now S.J. Res. 7 threatens to cut off and constrict that  world.

The internet can be a tremendous educational resource, opening new  doors for curious students, and digital literacy skills are fundamental  to succeeding in this digital economy, but that economy also creates a  new system of haves and have-nots. In education, that divide is called  the homework gap. It is a fundamental question of equity and fairness  to close that gap. Studies have shown that without broadband at home,  people earn lower grades than their connected classmates--no secret as  to why. It is a resource that enables better learning and more  achievement. That learning loss sets them back in career prospects and  other opportunities. It sets them back for a lifetime, potentially. We  saw the impact of the homework gap during COVID, when students were  forced to take classes and exams from the parking lots of McDonald's.  Literally, some of us saw students in those so-called hotspots, away  from their homes, because it was the only way they could access their  homework.

Now, to combat that homework gap, Congress established a fund in 2021  for schools and libraries to loan Wi-Fi hotspots to students and  educators. The program was an enormous success, ensuring nearly 18  million students at over 10,000 schools and libraries could get online.  In Connecticut, that Federal support, in addition to State funding, was  wildly successful to our closing the homework gap. We made sure that  every single student had access to a laptop and to high-speed  broadband. I am so proud of everyone in Connecticut who was responsible  for this program of combining Federal and State resources in the best  way; but, unfortunately, Federal funds ran out.

Rather than leave students behind, the Federal Communications  Commission issued a rule last summer that would allow schools to  continue providing Wi-Fi hotspots under its E-Rate program. The E-Rate  program exists to help schools and libraries provide affordable  internet access; so that was a natural step for the FCC last summer. In  Connecticut, funds from the E-Rate hotspot rule are supporting hotspot  lending programs in Hamden, Norwalk, and at countless other libraries.  I have visited them. I have seen the faces of educators and students  excited about this enormous potential that brings together communities,  frankly, from all different political parties.

There is nothing partisan about this program, but, today, my  Republican colleagues are trying to cut off those students in Hamden,  Norwalk, and elsewhere in Connecticut and millions and millions of  their peers all around the country. This resolution would nullify the  FCC's rule that allows schools and libraries participating to join Wi- Fi hotspots to students.

I have to ask, Really? Are schools and teachers crying out to repeal  this rule? Really? No, they are not. How does this proposal make any  sense for them or for families? for the parents? for the community? It  makes no sense.

This resolution would undo, in fact, all of the hard work in closing  the digital divide in States like Connecticut, where people have  devoted lives and careers to helping students close that homework gap  and do better. It will renew and exacerbate those inequalities of  access for rural and low-income communities. It will set back millions  of students in the name of--what? In the name of what? What is the  rationale? There is none. It is an embarrassment. It is a disaster. It  is a self-inflicted wound that we can avoid here on the floor of the  U.S. Senate.

I want to remind everyone here that once we vote in favor of this  rule, we can't go back, literally. You all know the rules. We can't go  back. The FCC may not adopt a similar rule in the future. This is an  irreversible, self-inflicted wound. So I urge my colleagues to reject  this misguided, wrong-headed resolution. It would be a disgrace if we  deprive those students and their families of this vast resource, of  literally life-changing access to a really necessary service that helps  them not just now but throughout their futures. We ought to expand  internet access, not constrict it. We ought to be enhancing it, not  cutting it off.

And this effort is in the name of what? It makes no sense except that  it exemplifies some of the cruelty and meanness and stupidity of the  Elon Musk approach to public service and public access and fairness in  our society.

I urge my colleagues to take the positive step--and it would be a  positive step--of continuing this enormously important program in the  name of educational future, tomorrow and in the days afterward, for our  students in Connecticut and around the country.