Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Gross Proceeds Reporting By Brokers That Regularly Provide Services Effectuating Digital Asset Sales''--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688443/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-internal-revenue-service-relating-to-gross-proceeds-reporting-by-brokers-that-regularly-provide-services-effectuating-digital-asset-sales


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, tragically and totally unnecessarily,  what we are seeing in real time is an assault on the veterans of  America. It is an assault that is part of a campaign by Elon Musk, who  has been empowered by President Trump supposedly to eliminate waste in  our Federal Government.

Instead of eliminating waste, Elon Musk is laying waste to the  Department of Veterans Affairs, and it is unfolding in real time, with  real-life impacts on our veterans. Not only is he firing veterans at  the VA--many of the 2,400 already terminated are veterans, one-third of  them--but across Agencies in the U.S. Government, where 30,000 members  of the Federal workforce have been indiscriminately terminated. Thirty  percent of them are veterans as well.

Almost 50 percent of everybody in the Department of Defense who has  been fired are veterans, and they may be probationary employees who  have been promoted to positions where they are in probationary status  because they have done such a great job. They are being fired.

Younger members of the Federal workforce--there for up to 2 years,  the future of our civil service--they are firing, and so many of them  are veterans who have worn the uniform, served and sacrificed, and want  to continue to benefit the country with the skills and dedication they  have demonstrated as members of our U.S. Armed Forces.

Public service has long been a preferred path for military-affiliated  populations. Whether it is in our local police force or as emergency  medical personnel, joining the Federal workforce has enabled them to  continue serving our country while it offers competitive wages,  benefits, and much needed stability for them as veterans and tremendous  benefits for taxpayers.

Now what Elon Musk is doing--relying on his tech bros and his  algorithms and his AI formulas--is to cut across the board, leaving  those veterans as disposable trash or roadkill in his campaign to  eliminate waste.

Well, let me tell you, Elon Musk, if you were serious about  eliminating waste, you wouldn't have fired the inspectors general of  these Agencies, who are the watchdogs. They have records of eliminating  waste, fraud, and abuse.

Exhibit A is Michael Missal, the inspector general of the VA, hired  and appointed first by President Obama. He served under President Trump  for 4 years and then under President Biden. He has ruffled feathers of  Republican and Democrat administrations because he has uncovered waste  and fraud in a very bipartisan way, and he regards his job as  bipartisan. He would be the one to eliminate waste, not with a meat-ax  but with a scalpel.

I wish my colleagues had been in the hearing today, the joint hearing  of the House and Senate Veterans' Affairs Committees, to hear Commander  Al Lipphardt of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the VFW--a really heroic  Vietnam veteran, injured there, with shrapnel in his arm. As he told  us, the surgeon removed the shrapnel piece by piece; he didn't cut off  his arm. That is the approach that we need, as he said, in eliminating  waste--not cutting off arms or legs but removing the waste carefully,  deliberately, cautiously.

Among the illegally terminated--and I should stress ``illegally  terminated''--are 2,400 VA employees, many of them veterans themselves,  members of the Guard or Reserves now, caregivers, military spouses. In  the DOD, many of them--45 percent--are former veterans. The overall  impact will be disastrous on the 640,000 veterans who are public  servants.

Musk and Trump have already upended the lives of so many thousands of  veterans who were casually discarded, illegally fired without notice or  justification--all for cheap headlines. The impacts in real life are  undeniable. Stories from newspapers, from broadcast media, from all  kinds of outlets, tell the story of those real-life impacts.

I know my colleagues are hearing from their constituents about the  mental health services that are delayed, about the surgeries that can't  be provided, and about the Veterans Crisis Line, serving veterans who  may be taking their own lives--all reduced. These real-life impacts are  undeniable. We are talking about the people who make sure that veterans  have transportation to those appointments, who assist with benefits  claims, who ensure that the VA hospitals are maintained and that they  are safe, who clean operating rooms and sterilize instruments in  between procedures. It may not be the surgeon who is fired, but the  surgeon who is walking into the operating room needs a staff and a team  to assist him. He needs the housekeeping staff to make sure that it is  clean. These people have dedicated their careers to serving veterans  and their Nation, and all have been indiscriminately and illegally  terminated.

These short headlines tell a story, and so does this visual from  Springfield, MA:

Due to abrupt and unplanned staff shortages, we are not       able to greet you at this time. If you have a scheduled       appointment, your counselor will be out to get you at the       time of your appointment. If you are here for any other       reason, please call and leave a message, and a staff member       will return your call.

We apologize--

``We apologize''--

for any inconvenience and impact on your care.

Donald Trump and Elon Musk owe veterans an apology. Right now, Elon  Musk is giving veterans the middle finger. Veterans won't stand for it.

So, Mr. President, I am introducing a resolution today and asking  that we approve it to uphold the contract, to uphold the promise, to  uphold the commitment we made to our veterans when they raised their  right hands and promised to serve and sacrifice even at the risk of  dying.

I am joined by Senators Hirono, Slotkin, Lujan, Murray, Durbin,  Whitehouse, Warnock, Klobuchar, Shaheen, Kaine, Rosen, Cortez Masto,  Alsobrooks, Kelly, Warren, Hassan, Schiff, Baldwin, Duckworth, Gallego,  Peters, Van Hollen, Sanders, Booker, Wyden, Merkley, Warner, Smith,  Padilla, Heinrich, Schatz, and Hickenlooper in this effort. I wish--I  really wish--it were bipartisan because veterans' issues have been  bipartisan. I have worked with veterans, including the chairman, whom I  respect, Senator Moran, on these issues.

This resolution acknowledges that veterans, who make up less than 7  percent of Americans but approximately 30 percent of public service,  have been really disrespected and disserved in just these weeks, with  such destructive and repugnant effects on them, on the veterans they  serve, and on American values. Our Nation and they deserve better.

Res. 105, which is at the desk; further, that the resolution be  agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and that the motions to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no  intervening action or debate.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, first, let me say I am hopeful that we  can work together--if the chairman of the VA Committee is willing to do  it--to try to arrive at language that calls for the rehiring of these  veterans, rescinding the layoffs.

I must say that we are joined today by a number of guests of my  colleagues as well as myself, veterans who have been terminated. They  are with us today. They are going to be with us tonight at the address  offered by President Trump.

I am more than happy to work on this resolution if there is a way to  make it bipartisan, but the basic principle that we owe our veterans  that contract and commitment and that we need to bring them back so  that these kinds of consequences can be avoided I think is fundamental  to the effort today.

We know that more than 50 patient appointments were canceled at a VA  facility just this past week because they can't hire staff needed to  care for those veterans.

We know that in the first round of terminations, Secretary Collins  terminated nine Veterans Crisis Line employees. Then he hired some  back, and then he fired more.

We know that a pregnant spouse of a disabled veteran who was hired  under the military spouse appointing authority was terminated.

We know that a 25-year Marine Corps veteran with a 100-percent  service-connected disability rating and 15 years of service was  terminated.

We know that a VA researcher working on treatments for substance use  disorders among veterans was terminated.

We know that the cyber security lead for the VA website--the digital  hub that connects veterans with their benefits and holds sensitive,  personal data--was terminated.

These kinds of impacts--and I have mentioned just a tiny fraction of  all of them--are ongoing. They are real. They are urgent.

I am more than happy to work on the language of this resolution, but  the goal is indisputable and unavoidable.

I am going to turn now to some of my colleagues who have joined me  today. I thank them for doing so.

First, Senator Whitehouse, if I may yield to him.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, we are going to be joined by others of  my colleagues, but I want to follow Senator Whitehouse's very eloquent  remarks by just making a couple of quick points.

You know, tonight, the President is going to speak to Members of both  the House and the Senate, and he is going to make a lot of claims, many  of them untethered in any way to the facts. But if he does nothing  else, what I would like to see him do is show some respect for our  veterans. He has called them suckers and losers. They have been called  swamp creatures or deep-staters by members of this administration. Part  of the mindset here that is responsible for these firings is that  disrespect for our veterans.

Two of my sons are veterans--one, a Marine Corps first lieutenant who  served in Afghanistan; another, a Navy SEAL. They value the VA.

Americans see in their real lives how the VA helps our veterans.

When the President speaks tonight, I want him to look at the guests  whom we have brought--not only my guest, Michael Missal, the former  inspector general of the VA, but also a U.S. Air Force veteran with  more than 30 years of military service who retired from a lifetime of  dedicated service to his country in November and immediately  rededicated himself to serving his fellow veterans at the Department of  Veterans Affairs. He started work on January 13. He was illegally  terminated barely 1 month later. He is the soul breadwinner of his  family. And Tony Ruiz, a disabled Army veteran--until he was illegally  terminated, he worked at the VA Benefits Administration to assist  veterans with their benefits claim. He was cut just 10 days before his  probationary period ended. He was serving in his dream job.

These veterans and other courageous former members of our Armed  Forces are going to be with us tonight, and they will be speaking out.  They will be sharing their stories. They are not faceless bureaucrats.  They are not suckers. They are not losers. They are hard-working public  servants who have willingly sacrificed everything for this country,  have been willing to give even their lives, and now have rededicated  themselves to continue their service now that their military time is  complete.

I want to yield to my colleague from Michigan, Senator Peters, who  himself is a veteran and a great colleague and friend of ours.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am going to close this colloquy by,  first of all, thanking my colleagues who have come today, especially  veterans like Senator Kelly, who served for decades, and Senator Peters  and all the veterans who have joined in this resolution--Senators  Gallego and others who have served this country--Senator Slotkin,  Senator Peters, who was here, and others.

But we don't have to be veterans to appreciate what members of our  military do for our country. My own service in the U.S. Marine Corps  Reserve pales in comparison to many of theirs and many who have  appeared before the Veterans' Committee over these past 7, 10 days,  many of them decrying these kinds of cuts. Again, these are real  people, affected in real ways, unnecessarily harmed.

And these headlines speak volumes about how they have been hurt:

DOGE finds zero fraud, waste, or abuse, just new ways to       harm veterans.

Veterans fired in federal layoffs say they were ``stabbed       in the back.''

These are just a scattering of the kinds of real-life stories that  bring us to the floor today.

I plead with the President: Please make this resolution unnecessary.  Do the right thing. But if you don't, I ask my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle: Join us from that other side of the aisle; join us  in decrying these cuts, the freezes, the firings, the terminations.  They are illegal and immoral.

And we will move forward. We will continue to fight because American  values are at stake.