Sen. Cramer: Congress Passes Never Again Education Act


U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND) issued the following statement after the Senate by voice vote passed the Never Again Education Act, bipartisan legislation he introduced:

"Anti-Semitism is a serious threat in the United States and around the world. We are obligated to fight against such bigotry, and failing to educate the next generation would only make history more likely to repeat itself," said Senator Cramer. "The Never Again Education Act legislation gives parents and teachers more resources and training to teach our children about the lessons of the Holocaust. I thank my colleagues for recognizing the importance of this effort, and I look forward to the President signing it."

Background

The Never Again Education Act dedicates a federal fund through the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum to provide teachers and parents with resources and training necessary to teach students and children the important lessons of the Holocaust.

The bill was introduced in July of 2019, receiving local and national praise.

"As Holocaust survivors fade into history, it's important to keep this tragedy written in bold type in history books," wrote the Grand Forks Herald Editorial Board. "Too many simply do not understand what the Holocaust was, and therefore cannot fully grasp how racism and antisemitism can rip a country apart."

The House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed the bill in January which, now having been passed by the Senate, goes to President Trump's desk for his signature.

Cosponsors & Companion Legislation

Joining Senator Cramer in introducing the legislation were Senators Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), who also applauded the bill's passage.

"Anti-Semitism is on the rise in the United States and across the globe. We must act to reverse this dangerous course," said Senator Rosen. "The best way to prevent an atrocity like the Holocaust from occurring again is through education. As we commemorate the recent 75th anniversary of the end of the Holocaust, the Never Again Education Act will give schools needed resources to cover one of the darkest chapters in our history. Through education, we can provide insight into the past, and use it to prevent anti-Semitism now. I'm glad to see my bipartisan legislation pass the Senate, and hope the President will swiftly sign it into law. I will continue working on policy solutions to fight back against hatred in whatever form it takes."

"By passing this bipartisan bill, the U.S. Senate reaffirms its commitment to ensuring that the horrors of the Holocaust at the hands of the evil Nazi regime are never forgotten," said Senator Rubio. "It is our duty to equip America's future generations with the facts to prevent history from ever repeating itself and to fight anti-Semitism in all its forms both domestically and abroad."  

"Ensuring that the past horrors of the Holocaust aren't forgotten will help combat anti-Semitism and hate in our present and future," said Senator Blumenthal. "Our bipartisan effort will help preserve firsthand accounts of the Holocaust and other primary sources, which are vital to teaching future generations about one of the darkest chapters in human history."

Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) introduced the companion legislation in the House.

"Combatting hate and intolerance must always be a priority and I'm glad that the Senate agrees. Passing this bill by unanimous consent today sends a strong message that the Congress is overwhelmingly united in combatting antisemitism and hate through education. Children are not born with hate in their hearts, it is up to us to make sure they never learn it," said Rep. Maloney. "To do that, we must make sure our educators have the tools they need to teach about the Holocaust, an incredibly difficult subject to teach and for students to understand. I want to thank Senators Rosen, Cramer, Rubio, and Blumenthal for moving this bill so quickly through the Senate and their partnership in this effort."

Widespread Support

The Never Again Education Act is backed by numerous organizations, including Hadassah, Jewish Federations of North America, Christians United for Israel, the Anti-Defamation League, American Jewish Committee, Simon Wiesenthal Center, Union for Reform Judaism, National Council of Jewish Women, World Jewish Congress North America, B'nai B'rith International, Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, Agudath Israel of America, HIAS, Jewish Women International, National Coalition Supporting Eurasian Jewry, Republican Jewish Coalition, American Jewish Congress, Jewish War Veterans of the USA, and the National Education Association, among many others.

"Even, in the era of COVID-19, we have seen an unprecedented wave of violent anti-Semitic attacks across the country and the sense of threat is universal. Holocaust education and specifically the Never Again Education Act is one legislative vehicle that will help alleviate this problem. We are so pleased to have partnered with a bipartisan group of extraordinary leaders in the Senate led by Senators Rosen (D-NV), Cramer (R-ND), Rubio (R-FL) and Blumenthal (D-CT)  who have championed this important measure and secured  final passage in Congress," said Mark Wilf, Chair of the Jewish Federations of North America Board of Trustees.

In addition to Senators Cramer, Rosen, Rubio, and Blumenthal, co-sponsors of the Senate legislation include Senators Martha McSally (R-AZ), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), John Boozman (R-AR), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Steve Daines (R-MT), Angus King (I-ME), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Bob Casey (D-PA), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), John Cornyn (R-TX), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Jon Tester (D-MT), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Rob Portman (R-OH), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Mark Warner (D-VA), Ed Markey (D-MA), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Jim Risch (R-ID), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Chris Coons (D-DE), Josh Hawley (R-MO), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Todd Young (R-IN), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Rick Scott (R-FL), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Susan Collins (R-ME), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Tom Carper (D-DE), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Tina Smith (D-MN), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Gary Peters (D-MI), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Doug Jones (D-AL), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Kamala Harris (D-CA), John Hoeven (R-ND), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Roy Blunt (R-MO), David Perdue (R-GA), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tom Udall (D-NM), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Mitt Romney (R-UT), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Jack Reed (D-RI), Patty Murray (D-WA), Tim Scott (R-SC), Mike Braun (R-IN), and John Thune (R-SD).