Sens. Moran and Blumenthal Introduce Legislation to Reauthorize U.S. Anti-Doping Agency


U.S. Senators Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) -- chairman and ranking member of the Commerce Subcommittee with jurisdiction over the health and safety of amateur athletes -- introduced legislation to reauthorize the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) in preparation for the 2028 Summer Olympics.

In 2001, Congress recognized the USADA as the official anti-doping agency for the Olympics, Paralympics, Pan American and Parapan Games to help combat the use of performance-enhancing drugs and create a fair and level playing field for our athletes. USADA is a non-profit organization that is partially funded through the Office of National Drug Control Policy and is responsible for administering testing, processing results, providing drug reference resources, athlete education and conducting research.

"Since its inception, USADA has modeled integrity and fair competition for the international athletic community and anti-doping agencies around the world," said Sen. Moran.  "By consistently ensuring that American athletes compete in a fair and clean manner, USADA strengthens the integrity of athletics and makes clear to other nations that we will not accept anything short of true sport. This legislation would ensure that USADA has the necessary tools and resources ahead of the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles."

"Anti-doping efforts are essential in leveling the playing field for all athletes and helping preserve the integrity of competitive sports," said Sen. Blumenthal. "As the United States prepares to host the world at the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles, this legislation ensures that our nation's anti-doping agency has the resources it needs to promote fair and healthy competition among athletes. USADA's efforts set an especially important foundation for our young athletes, teaching them about the dangers of using performance-enhancing drugs and encouraging clean sporting early on in their careers."

"USADA applauds Senators Moran and Blumenthal for introducing legislation to reauthorize the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency," said Travis Tygart, CEO of USADA. "For nearly 20 years, we have made great strides on behalf of clean athletes. With the resources and the strong support of Congress, we will continue to be a global leader in the fight for the integrity of sport and the protection of clean athletes. By passing this legislation, the U.S. sends a strong signal of its commitment to clean sport to athletes worldwide preparing for the 2020 Olympics and Paralympics in Tokyo."