Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, of all the thrills of living in a  democracy, none is more meaningful than walking into a voting booth and  casting a ballot. I can remember the first time I did it when I came of  age.

I can remember, always--and I see it again and again and again--new  citizens walking out of the courtroom after the naturalization  ceremony, with their certificates of citizenship in their hands and  handing it to the League of Women Voters person who is doing voter  registrations. It is the thrill of their lifetime to be registered.

Of all the rights we have, voting is perhaps the most meaningful and  the most practiced. It is foundational to all the others. It is the way  we preserve the others. And that is why the fight for voting rights-- and blood has been spilled in the effort to secure it--is a storied  bedrock of our American history.

And, now, again--as there has been throughout our history--there are  efforts to suppress that right for political reasons, for political  gain. That is what we have in the SAVE Act, an effort to erect  obstacles and to require documentation that, very simply, Americans-- many of them--don't have.

This measure is a solution--supposed solution--in search of a  problem. There is no widespread voter fraud. Undocumented people,  noncitizens, almost never try to vote. And I am using the word  ``almost'' because I am tempted to say ``never.'' But, of course, you  can't rule out a negative. You can't prove it.

But the fact of the matter is, widespread voter fraud, even  significant voter fraud by noncitizens, is an imaginary, delusional  issue. Some 21 million U.S. citizens who are eligible to vote don't  have the requisite documentation that would be required under the SAVE  Act. To solve the delusional nonproblem, the SAVE Act would deprive  real citizens of the real right to vote--21 million of them. Married  women, younger voters, voters of color--they are the ones who are going  to be impacted. I don't know how they would vote in Connecticut or  elsewhere, but they have a right to vote, and we should not be fooled  by this wolf in sheep's clothing, a measure that masquerades as  preserving democracy.

We should not let our voter rolls be purged by a measure that has  false pretenses. We must protect the right of every eligible citizen to  vote. The best way to do it is to say no to this bill, and I ask my  Republican colleagues to join me in saying no because this issue is  larger than any one of us.

I hear again and again and again from my constituents in Connecticut  about their concern that the right to vote may be restricted. I say to  the people of Connecticut right here and now: I will fight this bill  because it is wrong, because it eviscerates voting rights, and because  it threatens our democracy.