Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696127/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-with-respect-to-energy


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am honored to follow the chairman of  the Armed Services Committee, particularly in his remarks on the  Executive order that Donald Trump issued on Inauguration Day to declare  a nonexistent energy emergency. And I join him in support of S.J. Res.  71 to terminate that Executive order.

Let's be very clear. The only real energy emergency that we have in  this country is Donald Trump. Since that day of his inauguration, he  has used that Executive order to actually create an emergency. This  administration's actions are raising prices, killing jobs, and  undermining America's global competitiveness.

Now, we have a lot of evidence--and I will be mentioning some of it-- but the most recent is from the International Energy Agency, which has  slashed its forecasts for renewable energy capacity growth in the  United States this decade, citing the early phaseout of the Federal tax  incentives and regulatory shifts under this administration.

Mr. President, I ask that the Wall Street Journal article titled  ``IEA Cuts U.S. Renewable Energy Growth Outlook on Trump Policies'' be  printed in the Record.

7, 2025]      IEA Cuts U.S. Renewable Energy Growth Outlook on Trump Policies                            (By Giulia Petroni)

The International Energy Agency slashed its forecast for       renewable energy capacity growth in the U.S. this decade,       citing the early phase-out of federal tax incentives and       regulatory shifts under the Trump administration.

The West's energy watchdog now expects the U.S. to add       nearly 250 gigawatts of new capacity by 2030--down by almost       50% from last year's projections--as a result of fresh import       restrictions, the suspension of new offshore wind leasing and       a crackdown on permitting for onshore wind and solar projects       on federal land.

President Trump has vowed to boost the oil-and-gas       industry, in part by cutting support for renewable-energy and       emissions-reduction initiatives. A key factor in the U.S.       downgrade was the ``One Big Beautiful Bill Act,'' the IEA       said, which has accelerated the phase out of tax credits and       imposed new construction-start requirements for wind and       solar PV projects.

``With the pushing forward of deadlines, renewable capacity       additions are now projected to peak in 2027, then decline in       2028 and remain stable through 2030,'' the agency said.       ``After this period, renewable power growth will rely largely       on state-driven renewable portfolio or clean energy standards       and corporate PPAs [power purchase agreements], rather than       federal incentives.''

China's shift from a fixed tariff system to an auction-      based model is also impacting project economics and dampening       growth expectations. Previously, wind and solar projects       benefited from guaranteed long-term revenues tied to fixed       tariffs, while now projects are awarded contracts based on       competitive bids, with payments tied to market conditions.

Despite these shifts, Beijing continues to dominate the       global renewable landscape, accounting for nearly 60% of       capacity growth. The country is on track to meet its 2035       solar and wind power targets five years ahead of schedule,       the IEA said.

The downgrade is partly offset by more optimistic outlooks       for other regions, particularly India and Europe. According       to the agency, New Delhi will become the second-largest       growth market after China, with capacity set to increase by       2.5 times in five years on higher auction volumes, faster       hydropower permitting and a surge in rooftop solar       installations.

Globally, the IEA revised its renewable capacity growth       forecast down by 5%, but said it still expects capacity to       double between now and 2030, increasing by 4,600 gigawatts.       That is roughly the equivalent of the combined power       generation capacity of China, the European Union and Japan.

Solar power is set to account for nearly 80% of the global       increase due to its low costs and faster permitting       processes.

``In addition to growth in established markets, solar is       set to surge in economies such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and       several Southeast Asian countries,'' Executive Director Fatih       Birol said. ``As renewables' role in electricity systems       rises in many countries, policymakers need to pay close       attention to supply chain security and grid integration       challenges.''

The report came as clean-energy think tank Ember said       renewable energy generated more electricity than coal in the       first half of the year for the first time on record.

Offshore wind, however, is a weak spot in the IEA's       forecast, with its growth outlook about a quarter lower than       last year due to permitting delays, supply chain bottlenecks       and rising costs.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, it says:

The West's energy watchdog now expects the [United States]       to add nearly 250 gigawatts of new capacity by 2030--down       almost 50% from last year's projections--as a result of fresh       import restrictions, the suspension of new offshore wind       leasing and a crackdown on permitting for onshore wind and       solar projects on Federal land.

So let us now turn to one of those onshore--or, in this case,  offshore--energy projects: Revolution Wind, just one example of the  reckless energy policies that the Trump administration has implemented.

Let's be very clear. When President Trump came into office, America  was producing more energy than at any point in our country's history.  Last year, the United States added 49 gigawatts of new capacity to the  grid, and 95 percent of that new capacity was solar, batteries,  nuclear, and wind power.

Yet this administration has launched an all-out assault on these  lower cost, less polluting sources of energy.

President Trump promised to lower energy prices for Americans ``in  half.'' Now, across the country, electricity prices have jumped more  than twice as fast as the overall cost of living. And part of that  progress before Inauguration Day for Donald Trump and the emergency  energy Executive order was Revolution Wind--now, 80 percent complete.

It is an offshore wind project, off of the coast of both Connecticut  and Rhode Island, which is why my colleague from Rhode Island, Senator  Reed, mentioned it so prominently in his remarks.

The fact is, Revolution Wind is fully permitted. The project was on  track to deliver 704 megawatts of power beginning in 2026--that is next  year--powering 350,000 homes, a project well underway before the  Trumped-up energy emergency.

Forty-five of the planned 65 wind turbines were already installed  when the Trump administration, just months ago in late August, issued a  stop work order, grinding this project to nearly a complete halt--men  and women on the job in New London, offshore, onshore, stopped from  going to work, out of jobs; investors, construction companies, supply  chain suppliers, all of them grinding to a nearly complete halt.

The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection has  found that canceling Revolution Wind would cost taxpayers half a  billion dollars a year. Let's be clear--half a billion dollars a year  to Connecticut and Rhode Island ratepayers every year.

The project has a 20-year contract at 9 cents per kilowatt an hour-- less than half of today's regional price. Connecticut families are  already facing surging energy costs. Our electricity bills are among  the highest in the Nation. Blocking Revolution Wind undermines efforts  to make energy more affordable. It undercuts our work to lower prices  for consumers, locking in higher bills for decades and impacting, as  well, jobs.

Revolution Wind is providing thousands of jobs in Connecticut and  Rhode Island. More than a thousand local union workers have already  logged more than 2 million hours on the project. The stop work order  put hundreds of these workers on the sideline, and I was proud to stand  with a number of them at the Connecticut State Pier to support the  offshore wind industry.

Let me thank them and thank the unions that were there. The unions  were compelling and powerful, and they are representing their workers.  Hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested into that State pier  to support the offshore wind industry.

So the Revolution Wind cancellation threatens our economy, jobs, and,  most immediately, affordability for everyday Americans, most  particularly in Connecticut and Rhode Island.

But it is not just Connecticut that has benefitted from Revolution  Wind. The supply chain for this project stretches across the country,  in red States and blue States. The construction of the first American- made offshore wind vessel provided hundreds of jobs. Where? In  Louisiana, Florida, and Mississippi. Steel for the project was sourced  in Texas, Alabama, North Carolina, and West Virginia. Offshore wind  components were sourced and manufactured in Kansas and South Carolina.

Just as our military construction and manufacturing often is sourced  throughout the United States, in this case, all of America is helping  to build Revolution Wind.

And what is most galling about the administration's actions on  Revolution Wind is they defy logic. Eighty percent complete, all of it  permitted, reviewed by the Department of Defense for national security,  as well as every other Federal Agency that had anything to do with it,  any say at all, approved.

And yet in the eleventh hour, the administration swooped down with a  stop work order, citing ``national security concerns.'' And that is  it--national security concerns.

Well, that phrase is not a pass for everything the Federal Government  wants to do, and so I demanded to know what they were, to be provided  with information in a classified briefing, if necessary. I demanded it  in a letter. I have yet to receive a satisfactory response. In fact,  those concerns collapse under even the slightest scrutiny.

A Department of Defense letter, last year, confirmed, and I quote DOD  here, ``construction of the Revolution Wind project . . . would not  have adverse impacts to DOD missions.'' No adverse impacts.

So the idea that somehow it might interfere with the movement of  submarines from the Groton sub base or maybe testing of submarines by  electric boat or some other national security or national defense need,  no adverse impact to DOD mission.

So these national security concerns, quite clearly and outrageously,  were just a pretext, a flimsy excuse to continue this administration's  all-out assault on offshore wind. The President said he doesn't like  it. He has got something in for it. There is an animus. Who knows what  the reason is.

But, thankfully, there is the law. Yes, a Federal judge saw the  administration's stop work order for what it was:

[T]he height of arbitrary and capricious.

Now, Federal judges do not often say that actions by the President of  the United States are ``the height of arbitrary and capricious,'' nor  do they lightly issue a preliminary injunction against that kind of  stop work order, but this judge did. And it was based on the fact and  the law, so work was allowed to resume on Revolution Wind.

But let's be very clear, a lot of the harm was done. Work was stopped  for almost a month, with workers sidelined and progress halted to the  tune of millions and millions of dollars, not the way for the United  States to do business, not the way for the United States of America to  advance economic growth or provide jobs or, equally important, make  energy more affordable.

If this administration can derail a fully approved energy project,  whether it is natural gas pipelines or offshore wind farms, why would  any developer--why would anyone invest in the United States?

The credibility of the United States as a place to do business  craters when projects can be derailed by the personal whim of a  President, lawlessly and recklessly, as was done here because this  President doesn't like wind power.

On the first day of the government shutdown, the Department of Energy  canceled nearly $8 billion in clean energy funding for the whole  country. It included $53 million for 12 projects in Connecticut  supporting lower energy prices, grid reliability, and American energy  independence.

It was done in a way that was as illogical, chaotic, and likely  illegal as canceling Revolution Wind was. Again, a self-inflicted wound  in every way by this President, and that is why he is the energy  emergency. He created it in just months, not even a year. He declared  it on his first day in office when there was no energy emergency.

He is denying funding for innovative, promising projects. He is  stopping nearly complete offshore wind projects. He is creating chaos.  It makes America weaker.

And so I urge my colleagues to vote to end the Trump energy emergency  and recommit to finding real solutions to lowering energy costs for  consumers and supporting American energy.

And I will just close with, again, referring to the Wall Street  Journal's report of today on the International Energy Agency's  conclusion about how our capacity for renewable energy will be cut by  50 percent as a result of Trump administration action.

Despite these shifts, Beijing continues to dominate the       global renewable landscape, accounting for nearly 60% of       capacity growth. The country is on track to meet its 2035       solar and wind power targets five years ahead of schedule.

And we wonder why we are in danger of losing competitive advantage to  China, not because we lack the resources or the innovators or the  workers. It is a failure of leadership, and it begins in the White  House.