Vote Explanation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693523/vote-explanation


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I was unable to vote on Executive  Calendar No. 81, Scott Kupor, of California, to be Director of the  Office of Personnel Management for a term of four years, due to my  participation at the Ukraine Recovery Conference in Rome, Italy, on  July 10, 2025. I am working with Senator Graham to build international  support to advance our bipartisan Sanctioning Russia Act in an effort  to end the bloodshed in Ukraine. I would have opposed confirmation of  the nomination had I been present for the vote. The vote was rollcall  vote No. 379.

I was unable to vote on Executive Calendar No. 58, William Briggs, of  Texas, to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration,  due to my participation at the Ukraine Recovery Conference in Rome,  Italy, on July 10, 2025. I am working with Senator Graham to build  international support to advance our bipartisan Sanctioning Russia Act  in an effort to end the bloodshed in Ukraine. I would have opposed  confirmation of the nomination had I been present for the vote. The  vote was rollcall vote No. 380.

I was unable to vote on Executive Calendar No. 64, Jonathan Gould, of  Virginia, to be Comptroller of the Currency for a term of five years,  due to my participation at the Ukraine Recovery Conference in Rome,  Italy, on July 10, 2025. I am working with Senator Graham to build  international support to advance our bipartisan Sanctioning Russia Act  in an effort to end the bloodshed in Ukraine. I would have opposed  cloture on the nomination had I been present for the vote. The vote was  rollcall vote No. 381.

I was unable to attend the cloture vote for Executive Calendar No.  261, Whitney D. Hermandorfer, of Tennessee, to be United States Circuit  Judge for the Sixth Circuit, due to my participation at the Ukraine  Recovery Conference in Rome, Italy, on July 10, 2025. I am working with  Senator Graham to build international support to advance our bipartisan  Sanctioning Russia Act in an effort to end the bloodshed in Ukraine. I  would have opposed cloture had I been present for the vote. The vote  was rollcall vote No. 382.

I was unable to vote on Executive Calendar No. 64, Jonathan Gould, of  Virginia, to be Comptroller of the Currency for a term of five years,  due to my participation at the Ukraine Recovery Conference in Rome,  Italy, on July 10, 2025. I am working with Senator Graham to build  international support to advance our bipartisan Sanctioning Russia Act  in an effort to end the bloodshed in Ukraine. I would have opposed  confirmation of the nomination had I been present for the vote. The  vote was rollcall vote No. 383.