Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am here on the floor to talk about the  legislation that is now before this body. We just passed the motion to  proceed to the energy legislation, and we just heard about the  legislation from my colleague from Alaska and the Presiding Officer's  colleague from Alaska: Senator Murkowski, who chairs the Committee on  Energy and Natural Resources. The legislation is a good package. 

  As she said very well, it both helps in terms of the economy and jobs  and in terms of the environment. Who wouldn't be for that? It also has  a whole series of proposals with which to do it. The ones I am going to  talk about tonight are the energy efficiency proposals that she talked  about. In particular, I am going to talk about a concern I have that  the legislation that was offered tonight took out part of our energy- efficiency package, which we hope to add later by amendment, but I want  to talk about why it is so important to add it back in. 

  The legislation on energy efficiency is something I have introduced  with Senator Shaheen, of the great State of New Hampshire, for 9 years  now, going back to 2011. Some of it has gotten passed over time, but  most of it has not, so we are, once again, bringing it up. The  legislation is entitled the Energy Savings and Industrial  Competitiveness Act, which is why we commonly call it Portman-Shaheen,  because it is shorter. 

  Our legislation has been voted on by this body before. Back in 2016,  it passed the U.S. Senate. It has also passed out of the Senate Energy  and Natural Resources Committee five separate times with bipartisan  votes. In 2016, the vote was 85 to 12. Again, it was part of a larger  package at that time. 

  There is a reason this legislation has received such broad,  bipartisan support over the years. It lowers energy bills, which is a  good thing. It reduces emissions, and it creates new jobs. It does it  all without putting any new mandates on the private sector. It provides  incentives but not mandates, and that is great news for the working  families and businesses, large and small, that I represent. 

  It accomplishes all this by improving energy efficiency in three key  sectors. One is buildings, commercial buildings and residential  buildings. The second is in the manufacturing sector, the industrial  sector, of our economy. Then the third is with regard to our U.S.  Government. 

  Residential and commercial buildings, by the way, account for,  roughly, 40 percent of the total U.S. energy consumption, which is why  it is so important we have these sections with regard to buildings. 

  With regard to our industry sector, manufacturers are excited about  this legislation because it makes them not just more efficient in terms  of energy, but it makes them more competitive globally. That is why the  Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers and  other groups are strongly supportive of the legislation, as are well  over 100 businesses. 

  The Federal Government's part of this bill is also important. Guess  what entity uses the most energy in this country--the Federal  Government. It is the No. 1 consumer of energy in the United States. We  think it is probably the No. 1 consumer in the world. This may not  surprise you, but it is not terribly efficient. Our Federal Government  sometimes preaches to the rest of us to be efficient, but our own  Federal Government is lacking in that. 

  So this legislation focuses on those three areas and makes a real  difference. It moves the needle, as they say. It makes smart  improvements to energy efficiency across these sectors. 

  A recent analysis of Portman-Shaheen found that, over the lifetime of  the legislation, the bill will save consumers $51 billion on their  energy bills. It will result in an energy savings that is equivalent to  the total energy use of all U.S. industry in 1 year, and it will reduce  the carbon dioxide emissions--these are CO2 emissions--by  the equivalent of taking nearly 4 million cars off the road every  single year until 2050. 

  As Senator Murkowski said very well earlier today, this is about  reducing emissions. For those who are concerned about climate change  and who want to reduce emissions, energy efficiency is a great way to  do it--and, by the way, by creating jobs not eliminating jobs. Previous  studies have shown that our legislation will also add more jobs to the  economy. As I say, 100,000 jobs is our estimate. 

  I must tell you that I am supportive of the package, and I am  supportive of what Senator Murkowski said tonight. My disappointment is  that the underlying legislation we are debating does not include two  provisions in the Portman-Shaheen legislation. Those two provisions are  two of the most important ones, for they result in the energy savings I  talked about, in the additional jobs I talked about, and in the savings  to the taxpayers I talked about.  

  The first one is what is known as the SAVE Act. Now, the SAVE Act  allows the energy savings of an energy-efficient home to be considered  when determining the loan amount that a home buyer is qualified for  when he goes to get a mortgage. In other words, it helps to immediately  offset the cost of a more energy-efficient home by recognizing the  reduced energy bill, which is often the second biggest expense a  homeowner will incur after the mortgage payment. 

  This bipartisan legislation was first authored by our friend and  former colleague Johnny Isakson, along with Senator Michael Bennet, of  Colorado. As a real estate person himself, Johnny championed this  legislation over many years, and I thank him for his efforts. It is in  our Portman-Shaheen bill. I was pleased to work with Senators Isakson  and Bennet and include it in Portman-Shaheen. I am sorry it is not part  of the energy bill tonight, but it is not the only important provision  that has missed the boat on this package. 

  Another important section of my energy-efficiency legislation that  has been left out of the energy bill is known as the building codes  section. This section focuses on providing best practices on how to  make homes more energy efficient. We know that one of the most  effective ways to ensure that a homeowner's energy bills are affordable  is to build a home that is more energy efficient to begin with. 

  It is important to note at the outset that the building codes we are  talking about tonight are and will remain under this legislation as  voluntary. You are going to hear that a lot tonight. There are no  mandates in this legislation of any kind for new homes. It is up to  States, local governments, and Tribes to adopt the building codes on  their own that they deem fit for their communities. 

  In fact, some States have building energy codes. Some States don't.  Some States adopt part of what is called the model code, which we will  talk about in a minute, and some States have no model code at all that  they are going to adopt. In my home State of Ohio, for example, we have  adopted parts of the 2009 model building energy code and parts of the  2012 model building energy code. So, instead of mandates or a heavy- handed government approach, this provision we are talking about is an  incentive-based, opt-in program that is open, transparent, and cost- effective. 

  It is not that the mandates haven't been tried before. Mandated  building energy codes and mandated energy savings were included as part  of the 2009 energy bill that passed out of the House of  Representatives. There was even legislation introduced today over in  the House that would impose mandates. Our legislation does not. It  takes a much more commonsense approach, in my view, and leaves it up to  the States to adopt which, if any, of the model building codes work  best for them. 

  Some of you might not know that these model building codes for  commercial and residential buildings are developed and updated not  through our government but through an independent organization outside  of the Federal Government. For residential buildings codes, it is  called the International Code Council, or the ICC. Every 3 years, this  group, the ICC, conducts a process to update the residential model  building energy code. Every 3 years, it does it. 

  During that process, many stakeholders, including industry, builders,  developers, State code officials, and the Department of Energy, can all  weigh in with proposals or amendments. Then they vote to approve the  inclusion of the proposals in the updated code. They all have a vote,  including home builders. 

  Today, the Department of Energy plays a role in the code development  process just like other stakeholders. It has general authorities to  offer and support proposals and to vote on the proposals. It has the  authority to set targets to reach a certain percentage of energy  savings during a code update. Since 1992, the DOE has had the authority  to provide technical assistance and funding for States, local  governments, and Tribes that want to update their building codes. 

  So that is the current practice. It is not mandatory. The DOE can set  targets and can provide technical assistance. However, there have been  concerns from some stakeholders that the DOE has not been transparent  enough or has not adequately considered the costs of proposals and  targets. That is why, in this legislation, in addition to codifying  much of what the DOE was already doing, our legislation establishes a  rulemaking process that requires, for the first time, the DOE to work  with States, Tribes, local governments, and other interested  stakeholders to set these energy savings targets in advance of the  model building code update. We require the DOE to do that. 

  The purpose of the target is to set an energy savings percentage  improvement from one model code to the next. It is intended to be a  benchmark for stakeholders to consider when proposing, supporting, and  voting on amendments, but it is not mandatory. 

  In response to stakeholders' concerns that the target might not be  cost effective--in other words, that DOE would establish a target that  wasn't cost effective for homebuilders, as an example--or that it  wasn't transparent and that what they were doing wasn't open, our bill  also requires DOE to publish its methodology and provide a ``return on  investment'' analysis, not previously required, and the estimated cost  and savings as a result of the target. 

  So we are forcing DOE to do much more than they do now--to be more  transparent, to look at the cost benefit here, and to come up with a  cost-effective analysis. 

  Then, at the end of the day, the target itself is nonbinding on the  model code process. DOE makes a determination on whether the target was  met, and then this group, the ICC, sends their options, which they can  choose to adopt in order to meet the target. They do not have to accept  the changes, nor does this model code have to meet the target. So it is  not mandatory even at that stage. They set a target, but it is not  mandatory for the ICC to adopt it. 

  It is also important to again note that the proposed model building  code at the end that is ultimately published by the ICC is not an  automatic mandate for new buildings. States are encouraged to take a  look at the new proposed code and to let DOE know that they have  considered the proposed code and determined whether to adopt it or not.  Again, some States adopt it, and some States don't. 

  So, as you can see, this whole process is one where the  recommendation is made, but it is not mandated. 

  Just as in the current law today, our bill authorizes DOE to provide  funding and technical assistance to States to incentivize them to  update their code. But, ultimately, the updated code and whether the  States want to consider the updated model code or not is completely  nonbinding and voluntary. 

  I have heard concerns that our legislation will make new homes  unaffordable. However, DOE's analysis found that, for example, if the  2015 code was fully adopted--so that was the 2015 code we talked about  earlier that Ohio has partly adopted--it would result in a 33-percent  reduction in energy use for that home and cost $2,787 per new home  compared to the 2006 code. So, remember, this is a recent model code,  2015. They do it every 3 years. If it had been fully adopted, it would  result in a 33-percent reduction in energy use for that family, and yet  only an additional cost of $2,787, compared to the previous code. 

  We also know that these upfront costs are typically financed entirely  by these energy savings through the life of the mortgage, which is  typically 30 years. So you know there is a little more upfront cost,  but a 33-percent reduction in energy use would more than finance that  over the time that the person owned the home. 

  So, ultimately, our legislation is going to ensure that energy  efficiency features of a home will continue to save homeowners money  throughout the life of the building. 

  This incentive-based approached to improving energy efficiency in new  buildings has bipartisan support from a broad group of stakeholders. In  particular, my colleagues on this side of the aisle support an  incentive-based approach rather than a mandated approach. 

  Our legislation has the support of the National Association of  Manufacturers, the American Chemistry Council, and the U.S. Chamber of  Commerce. It has the support of commercial and real estate developers,  like BOMA and the  Real Estate Roundtable. It has the support from efficiency advocates  and the environmental community, like the Alliance to Save Energy, the  ACEEE, NRDC, and the BlueGreen Alliance. 

  There is not a lot in Washington, DC, these days that has that broad  group of stakeholders--strange bedfellows, you might say--but this bill  does because what we do here makes sense. It doesn't take a heavy- handed government approach, but it takes an incentive-based approach,  not mandated but providing the information so States, localities, and  communities can make their own decision and can help to ensure that the  best practices out there in energy efficiency are known, and where  people want to use it, they can use it. 

  If my colleagues are serious about both protecting the environment  and growing the economy and increasing jobs, I believe this is the  right legislation for them and that the voluntary business code  language in the energy bill has to be included. 

  So I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help us with  regard to an amendment we plan to offer later in this process to ensure  that we do have the ability to both create jobs, improve the economy,  and improve the environment. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT