Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am also here to talk today about the  work that is being done to help my home State of Ohio to get through  this coronavirus. It is a crisis in so many ways. It is a healthcare  crisis, but it has also become an economic crisis and a family crisis.  It is affecting everybody in ways that are truly heartbreaking for me  to see in so many instances. 

  I have talked to people who have been unemployed for the first time  in their lives and have never had access to the unemployment insurance  office. They have been fortunate. And now they have to. 

  I have talked to people who started a small business and took a big  risk to do that. They have five or six employees--it is a family-owned  business--and they have been through the thick and thin over the years,  but this one has really knocked them out. They have no income coming  because they are in one of these businesses that by government order  were shut down and cannot continue to serve the customers. 

  I have talked to hospitals in a rural area of our State that cannot  continue to operate. They have about a week left of cash reserves.  Luckily, they are going to get some of this funding that Congress just  provided with regard to the phase 3.5, as we are calling it,  legislation of the CARES Act. But they are really hurting. They have  had to lay off more than half of their hospital staff. They can't do  elective surgery. They can't have the normal work they are used to  because people aren't coming in to see the doctor. They aren't coming  into the emergency room.  

  The good news is, in Ohio and other States around the country, we are  starting to open up and doing so safely. We are doing more testing and  that is all good. It has been a tough time. 

  Like so many Americans, I have been on the phone a lot. I have been  on the phone pretty much all day, every day, into the night. A lot of  what I have been doing is talking to constituents and talking to  stakeholders across the State and hearing their concerns and trying to  explain what we are doing here in Washington, how it would affect them  and their families, and getting their input as to what we should do,  but also I have been working with the White House, and HHS, FEMA, the  FDA, Treasury, SBA, the Bureau of Prisons, the U.S. Trade  Representative, State of Ohio, and others on corona-related matters to  be able to help Ohio companies and help Ohio individuals. We have had  some success in that. I am proud of that. In terms of constituents, we  held seven tele-townhall meetings in the last 6 weeks where we hear  directly from people, thousands of Ohioans. Again, there are a lot of  heartbreaking stories and also a lot of really inspiring stories about  people who stepped up and helped. 

  One guy lost his job and decided to go volunteer at a food pantry. He  wears the PPE, the mask and the gloves, and he delivers food to people  who have never had to worry about food security before because they  always had a job. Now, they don't have a job and are waiting to get  their unemployment insurance, and they can't put food on the table.  Some of them feel funny about going to a food pantry because they have  never done that before. He makes them feel more at home, he said, and  understanding and more welcomed. 

  I talked to people who are delivering groceries to their neighbors  who are seniors and who are more vulnerable. God bless them. I talked  to people who  are making homemade masks at home. I brought some with me on my trip to  Washington. They are doing it as volunteers, not asking for anything  other than, if you take this mask, you have to agree you are also going  to be helping your neighbor. 

  The frontline workers, the hospital workers, are putting their  healthcare on the line for us. They are risking their own healthcare  and the possibility of getting this virus to help all of us and to help  our grandparents and our parents. God bless them. 

  I love when the healthcare workers are being held up by everybody. I  think today is official Nurses Day. We should all be thanking our  healthcare professionals and, specifically today, our nurses for what  they do every day in every time period, but particularly during this  crisis, where they have been working really long hours and doing  everything they can to try to protect us. I appreciate the people who  are doing everything else on the frontlines right now, whether working  in a grocery store stacking shelves or whether you are driving a truck.  I drove my pickup truck from Ohio to Washington on Sunday to be here  for this week, and every time I went by a truck, I said thank you just  for being out there and delivering the food and delivering the  products. We thank those folks for what they are doing, all of them. 

  One thing I tried to do is to help in terms of explaining what is  going on in getting input. We talked to more than a dozen groups out  there. I talked to the Farm Bureau today in Ohio, but I also talked to  the hospitals, small business owners, food banks, the nonprofits, and  many others to hear how we can support them during this tough time. 

  This afternoon, we had a telephone call with some of the largest  businesses in Ohio, a group called the Ohio Business Roundtable. They  talked about some of the things they are doing to keep their employees  safe because some of them are essential businesses. I encouraged them,  as I always do, to get your best practices out to all your others  business associates. Let them know how we can reopen safely. We are  starting to open in Ohio. We want to know it is safe. The best advice  will not be from a piece of paper--as important as that guidance is  from the White House or the State of Ohio--it is going to be from other  businesses who found out things you can do, like stagger the lunch  break. That helps to spread people out. 

  These things might not be obvious, such as do the temperature testing  as people come in. Be sure that you are doing everything you can do to  explain to people what they can do if they feel like they are getting  sick, who they can go to and how they can be sure that they are not  infecting others. I think there is an opportunity here to reopen and do  it safely. 

  One reason we are able to reopen in Ohio safely is we have a lot more  testing now. Like many States, we didn't have enough testing until  recently. Now, we are getting it. We had 3,700 tests per day, 2 weeks  ago. Within 2 or 3 weeks from today, we will have 20,000 tests per day,  a 600 percent increase. We had to work at it because we were having  trouble getting some of the components for testing, particularly the  reagent. The State of Ohio, to its credit, with Governor DeWine,  reached an agreement with Thermo Fisher, a private sector company  taking the lead in providing us a guaranteed supply chain of this  reagent under their tests, which enables us to dramatically respond to  increasing our testing. 

  We are getting to a point where you can have a lot more drive-through  testing at Kroger and Walmart and some of our drug stores. We are  starting to get the testing much easier for people because you can  drive through. You don't have to get out of your car, and you feel  safer. 

  The saliva test, as opposed to a test where they take a swab deep  into your nasal cavities, is a lot less intrusive, and that is starting  to be used more. We are beginning to have enough testing where we can  more safely say: Look, we are going to reopen, but we are going to test  people a lot. If we find a problem, we are going to do the contact  tracing to figure out who that person has been with and quarantine  those people. That is less hard than quarantining everybody else.  

  For all of us, really, testing is where there is a problem. We will  get to a point where we can test people who are asymptomatic. Even if  you don't have symptoms, you could be a carrier. I think dramatically  increasing the testing is the key thing. This is a diagnostic test.  There are also the immunity tests coming up, which is also helpful, but  nothing replaces the diagnostic test which says whether you have it or  don't. 

  We also have seen good news in Ohio and around the country on these  antiviral medications. That is the reason we can reopen safely, too. If  someone does get coronavirus, they have a chance to take something like  Tamiflu, which you take for the common flu. Remdesivir is the most  recent one the FDA has approved, which has a record of being very  helpful. People want to know, if they get the virus, that they can take  something for it. That is helpful. 

  Finally, we are getting our hands around the PPE issue, the personal  protective equipment, the masks and gloves and the gowns. This evening,  after this talk, I am going to be working with an Ohio company that is  interested in dramatically expanding the gown production. That would be  great. We are working with the White House and others to try to ensure  that can happen. 

  We have a lot of great world-class businesses in Ohio. What I am  talking about tonight is an example of that. There are others, too, in  healthcare systems that have contributed to this coronavirus crisis all  over the country. I have been working the last 6 weeks with them,  making sure they have the opportunity to do that. 

  One of those key contributions from Ohio has been from a company  called Battelle. Battelle is a global research institution and happens  to be headquartered in Columbus, OH. They do awesome work all over the  world. They run some of our national labs for the Energy Department. We  worked with the Trump administration and with Ohio Governor Mike DeWine  to help them get approval for a really innovative technology where they  can take an N95 mask--one like this, except even better because it is  N95--and they can recycle that mask. They decontaminate it. 

  These masks can be recycled up to 20 times. Think about that, 20  times. It is groundbreaking because they have enough machines to spread  out around the country. They have 60 machines that they can recycle and  decontaminate between 4 and 5 million masks a day. I worked with FEMA,  HHS, and the White House to help Battelle secure a contract with the  Federal Government to be able to take their technology and machines and  spread them initially to hot spots around the country like New York,  Boston, Chicago, Detroit, and now other places. 

  I would tell people who might be listening that, if you are connected  with a healthcare entity, a hospital, a nursing home, EMS, if you are a  firefighter and you use these N95 masks, don't throw them away. When  you are done with them, put them aside in a separate bin for recycling  and get them picked up. We worked on a contract with the Federal  Government to help with the pick-up and delivery, which is also  available now. You can get them picked up and take them to Battelle.  Hopefully, they have a cleaning station near you, and for free, you get  a recycled mask back. The process takes about 8 hours. If you are close  to one, you can get it overnight. 

  We are not at full capacity on these machines. We should be. It is a  great idea. Why spend the money to get some overpriced mask from  China--because they are all overpriced now--when you can actually  recycle what you have? It is a lot less medical waste, too. If you are  interested in that, go to Battelle.org and learn more about it, or go  to our website Portman.senate.gov, to find out more about it. Find out  if there is a machine near you. Even if there is not, we can send them,  and we can help you connect with companies, including Cardinal Health  in Ohio, providing some of the logistics to get the masks back and  forth. 

  That is an example of some of the things we have been working on the  past 6 weeks to help with this effort. I want to, again, as I have done  before, commend the folks at Battelle for devoting their time and  energy to this  project. As soon as this coronavirus came up, they said to the  engineers: Forget what you are doing, go work on this. They have also  done a lot of testing with Ohio State, putting their folks against  that, and now, they are working on other interesting technology that  could be very helpful in detecting coronavirus. It is an example. 

  We had another company, Cardinal Health, that I mentioned, that are  helping in terms of the logistics. They did something else early on.  They came to me and said: We have 2.3 million protective gowns in  storage. We are not using them. They are the kind of gowns that can be  used as isolation gowns. They are very effective. They are not  qualified as surgical gowns, but they can be used as isolation gowns.  They were willing to donate them to the National Stockpile. We worked  with, again, FDA, HHS, and the White House to get through some of the  red tape because it is tough to get things approved at times with the  Federal Government. There are reasons for that. We want to be safe. We  got approval for those gowns, and bingo, like that, they started to go  out. They went to New York, they went to Detroit, they went to places  where are there are hot spots. They are in the National Stockpile. They  donated 2.3 million gowns. 

  One company that has been very helpful to so many Americans is GoJo.  It is a company that makes Purell. I see some up here on the desk.  Purell is made in Ohio, outside of Akron. We are very proud of Purell.  They have been going 24/7, producing all they can. It is tough to find  it in the grocery store because, as soon as the shipment comes in, they  take it and use it. It is particularly helpful now that they have  Purell beginning to reopen. 

  Reopening means doing things differently. It means wearing a mask  when you are in proximity with somebody else. It means using Purell and  washing your hands more often. It means being sure you are following  the rules to be able to stay safe. Purell will continue to be needed. 

  They had a problem because the Federal Government was assessing a 25- percent tariff on two critical items they had to have for the  dispensers. At least one item had a patent in China. China had the  patent on it. Things were coming in from China with a 25-percent  tariff. We were able to go to a U.S. Trade Representative. I commend  Bob Lighthizer, who is the Trade Rep, for working with us on this. 

  For this period of time, they took that 25 percent off. They were  having a tough time getting the supply and because it was increasing  the costs by 25 percent. We were able to do that. Now. They are able to  produce more of this Purell and more dispensers and do it less  expensively 

  By the way, this leads me to a comment on China. We need to pull back  some of what we make in China and make it here. It is a pretty simple  concept. It is harder to implement because our supply chains are global  and they are complex. Who would have thought that, on a GoJo dispenser  for Purell, there would be a Chinese patented product, but there is.  Whether it is gowns,--most of which are made in China--or masks or  other products like something essential that is in a hand sanitizer  dispenser, we have to pull those products back. 

  I think the way to do it isn't to beat up on China, but rather to  provide the incentive--the carrot--to American companies and other  companies and say, Make it here, make it in America. I think we can do  that as a group, Republicans and Democrats alike. 

  I think there is consensus now that we should do more to reshore, and  in some cases, shore for the first time, products that have been moved  overseas and particularly to China. We wouldn't have had to get that  special permission on the 25-percent tariff if it was made here. 

  We also worked with the FDA to get approval for a company called  Second Breath in Cleveland, OH. It is another great example. There are  so many in Ohio, but this is a company that didn't make ventilators at  all. It is a consortium of several manufacturing companies that work  together. But again, early on in this crisis, they said: We need  ventilators. We can do that. We are manufacturers. We are Ohioans. We  are inventors. 

  They went out and made these ventilators on their own that were then  tested at three different Ohio hospitals. The medical community loved  them. They are relatively inexpensive, relatively simple, and very  effective. 

  Again, the FDA had to go through its process. My job is not to say to  the FDA, You need to approve this. My job was to ask them to please  expedite this process so, if it can be approved, we can get this out to  people who are literally dying and need the ventilators. To the FDA's  credit, Dr. Jeffrey Shuren, in particular, worked with us and got that  product approved. 

  They already made a bunch of them. They weren't going to send them  out if they didn't get approval. They didn't care because they were  willing to take a loss, with the opportunity to save people. Now, those  ventilators have gone out to stockpiles and hospitals, including New  York, when they needed them all over the country. 

  It is an example of the kinds of things over the last 6 weeks we have  been able to do in Ohio. The result is companies in Ohio are now making  swabs, making masks, making face shields, making hand sanitizer. 

  Proctor and Gamble converted some of their perfume-making factory to  making hand sanitizer. It probably smells pretty good. I don't know if  it actually has a particular odor to it. If it comes from a perfume  factory, it might not just be effective, but smell pretty good, too.  Thanks to Proctor and Gamble and all these companies that are willing  to step up and do these things they have never done before and respond  to these crisis--that is what Americans do. We get knocked down; we  figure it out. We get back on our feet. 

  Ultimately, I am optimistic. Think about what has happened in the  last couple of weeks. There is substantially new testing. In my own  State of Ohio, again, a 600-percent increase of tests from 2 weeks to 3  weeks from now. Increasingly, new antiviral medication has been  approved. It is something people can rely on--more testing and  antiviral medication is critical. There are more PPEs. Finally, we are  figuring it out, like the recycling which we can do right here in  America. We can recycle our own masks. There are the gowns we are  trying to get produced more here in America right now. We are starting  to catch up on things that, frankly, we were pretty far behind in. 

  On the testing, I will tell you that, for the first few weeks of this  crisis, you couldn't get a test in most parts of Ohio unless you were  so severely ill that you had to be hospitalized. That was wrong. We  just weren't prepared as a country. 

  By the way, the last administration wouldn't have been any more  prepared, nor would the previous administration, which I served, have  been any more prepared. We were not expecting a pandemic like this. We  should have been, of course. There were some warnings. The country now  will be prepared. 

  One thing we are doing is we are adding to that stockpile with the  PPE, with the ventilators, and obviously with the antiviral medications  for this virus and the vaccine for this virus. My hope is that vaccine,  which the administration calls their process warp speed--and I  appreciate that they are working around the clock. There are some  scientists who have devoted their lives to this now. That is all they  are doing. 

  And God bless them, and there are a bunch of them. And, by the way,  some of these vaccines will not work. People will have spent hundreds  of millions of dollars--even billions of dollars--on stuff that is not  going to work. But kind of like those ventilators were made even though  they didn't know if they were going to get approval or not, we want to  have that virus vaccine ready. 

  If it does work and it gets approval, we want to have lots of doses  of it already made. So there is going to be some money spent, including  by the Federal taxpayer, but that is OK to ensure that we end up with  something that really can be effective. 

  On the testing, I will tell you that in my own hometown of  Cincinnati, OH, those first few weeks we really couldn't get tested  unless you were to be hospitalized. And we had an interesting issue  there, again, showing how Washington sometimes can make things a little  slower. The University of Cincinnati, which is our primary academic  medical center in southern Ohio, had ordered a testing machine back in  February. They ordered it because they knew this was coming, and they  wanted to get the best of the best. So it was a high-quality machine,  with high accuracy, and it could do 1,000 tests a day. By the way, at  the time, they were doing about 80 to 100 tests a day in their own  little lab, but they needed this equipment, and they had a contract for  it back in February. 

  Well, come March they kept hearing next week, next week, next week,  and they called me and I got involved. I got to the company and got to  the University of Cincinnati and said: What is the real problem here?  And they said: Well, we are being told by the Federal Government that  we can't deliver it to Cincinnati. It needs to go somewhere else. I  said: Well, they contracted for this back in February, and we are  desperate for testing. We may not be a hotspot right now, but we are  going to be unless we get some testing. 

  So, again, we broke through the redtape and broke through what was  some miscommunication. It turned out, with the help of the White House,  that we got the approval to get the diagnostic tests there that had  already been contracted for. It is called a cobas 6800 machine. It can  process more than 1,000 diagnostic tests per day, and it is working. It  is every day giving more people the sense of security that they know  whether they have this or not, and they know whether the person that  works in the store has it or not, and they know that we have more  access to testing. 

  Now, I am not saying we are getting there, but that would be key to  getting us back to business but also reopening in a way that we don't  have to stop if there is an outbreak because we will have the testing  to be able to really throw at it and then the contact tracing and be  able to ensure that we can stop the spread of the virus. 

  So those are some of the things that we have worked on. We have  worked with FEMA to unlock additional resources for Ohio, and that has  happened around the country. 

  USDA has now allowed the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services  to operate the Disaster Household Distribution Program. We appreciate  them. We worked with them on that so that we can officially get meals  to food banks and families in Ohio. 

  We worked with the Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure that  veterans could get an extension on their filing of claims and appeals  during this time period for veterans' compensation benefits and other  benefits during a time when the VA offices have been closed. 

  We helped stop the Federal Bureau of Prisons from sending more  prisoners to one of our hotspots. It is a really sad case, the Elkton  Federal prison in Ohio. We also helped them bring more healthcare to  the Elkton prison. Frankly, I am discouraged that they aren't doing  more testing there. I talk to them constantly, and they are providing  more testing, but not enough--not enough. I think it is inexcusable 

  I think, in a situation like a nursing home or a prison, we should be  focused on getting the testing in there. These are what they call  congregant living situations. In this case it is a low-security prison.  So it is more like dormitory-type style living, and, unfortunately, if  they were to test as much as they should, I believe they would find  out, as we found out in other State prisons in Ohio, that more than  half the prisoners there are carrying the virus, and you have got to  separate those people out from those who don't have it and do much more  treating and tracing. But we have made progress there, and we will  continue to. 

  The phase 3.5 rescue package we passed a few weeks ago does have  funding for the PPP program, which is for small businesses, to be able  to keep their employees and keep their doors open. It also has funding  for healthcare. But the piece that hasn't gotten much attention and may  be the most important aspect of the bill of all is $25 billion in the  bill for more testing. 

  Again, I am a broken record here on testing, but that money is so  important, and we are using it in Ohio right now. About $43 million has  come to Ohio recently, I am told, and that funding will be helpful not  just to ensure that we have testing, but do we have enough testing so  that we will get a sense of what is going on in terms of the healthcare  crisis, and then, when there is a hotspot, address it again immediately  and be able to stop the spread of the virus? It is so important to us  reopening and getting people back to work, back to their churches and  other places of worship, and back to school. 

  We need to get back to a normal life, and we can, and we will. We  will figure this out, but we do need the help of having the necessary  testing capacity, diagnostic testing, and then it is also helpful to  have the antibody test so you know whether you have developed an  immunity or not. But those are both needed. You can't do it just with  the antibody test. You have to also know through the diagnostic test  whether someone has the disease or not to be able to pull that person  out of a situation where he or she is with others and to find out whom  they have been in touch with and do the contact tracing, and, again,  quarantining those people, not quarantining everybody else. That is the  effective way to do it. 

  Congress has now passed four of these legislative measures in an  overwhelming, bipartisan fashion. It is a lot of money. About $3  trillion have gone out the door from Federal taxpayers. I hope we can  continue to be bipartisan. I hope we can work together to figure out  how to move forward. 

  In my view, moving forward means looking at what we have done  carefully. Let's not start to legislate again and spend more money  until we know how what we have already sent works. The money is just  being distributed now. In fact, most of our money in Ohio that goes to  the State and local governments has not been distributed yet. Let's get  that money out. 

  By the way, they need it. They need it badly. They need it to pay  police and fire and EMS. Our cities in Ohio are really hurting because  they depend so much on income taxes, on earnings taxes. Other cities in  America don't because they can't, but about four of the top five cities  in America that were most affected by the reduction in revenue from the  coronavirus are in Ohio--Columbus, Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Toledo. 

  So they have a real problem on their hands. I strongly urge the  Department of Treasury to loosen up their requirements to allow that  State and local funding to be used more flexibly, specifically for  payroll, for public safety. 

  Based on Monday's guidance that we just got a couple of days ago  here, they can now do that. That is just guidance. It is not  legislation. I would love in whatever we do going forward to get that  in legislation, to say: Let's provide flexibility to the States but  also to these municipalities. 

  I will tell you that in my home State of Ohio, again, at the  municipal level, we are really hurting. Budgets are being slashed  because the revenue is not coming in because it is based on the  economy. Most cities rely heavily on property tax. We don't. Property  tax has not been affected in the way that income tax has or sales tax. 

  So we do need to pay attention to this, and people say: Well, we  shouldn't send in more money to municipalities. Let's start with  flexibility. Let them use the money they have more effectively for what  they actually need. 

  I don't want a situation where you have a 30-percent or 40-percent  cut in police, which is what is happening in some of our  municipalities, to affect the public safety of our communities at a  time like this. Police officers need to be on the street doing their  jobs. God bless them. They are out there. We need them. 

  As for EMS personnel, if your grandmother needs to be rushed to the  hospital, you want the EMS to come. You don't want to have a 40-percent  cut in their services. So we do have to deal with this issue and be  sure to provide flexibility is the first step. 

  And let's codify that by statute and make sure it is clear, not just  guidance that doesn't seem to be consistent with the underlying law,  because the underlying law says it has to be directly related to the  COVID-19, and some of this is not. You need police officers on the  street whether you had COVID-19 or not. So let's be sure we codify that  and then let's see what is needed. 

  But I also think that in this next legislation we also have to be  sure that we are not just looking at what has already passed but  looking ahead. And  looking ahead means the ability to reopen, and that means stimulating  the economy and creating--whether it is tax relief or whether it is  smart investment in infrastructure. Let's say the projects that are  already on the books in my State and yours, projects that are already  shovel-ready because they are ready to go, they have gone through the  merit-based process in our States, but many of those projects will not  be able to be funded this year by our States. Why? Because their  revenues have collapsed, particularly their gas taxes have collapsed.  So the State match, which is based on the amount of gas you buy, has  gone down because people aren't driving nearly as much.  

  What if we picked up some of that at the Federal level? These are  good projects because they aren't bridges to nowhere. They have been  through the merit-based process, and they are ready to go. That is an  idea. Why? It is good jobs, one, which are needed right now, and good  benefits, but also it is economic benefit. Those dollars will come back  in terms of improved roads and bridges and ports and airports. 

  Rural broadband would really help right now. As people are  telelearning and teleworking more and more, they are finding out: Oh,  my gosh, there are big parts of our country that don't have broadband  access, can't get Wi-Fi, and if you can, it is way too slow. 

  Again, talking to the Farm Bureau today, you would think they would  be talking about the price of corn and soybeans, and they were, and the  huge issues we have right now in the beef industry and the pork  industry and poultry, but they were also talking about: I got my kids  at home and we can't do the homework because we can't get broadband in  a lot of parts of Ohio--probably in about a third of our State. Ohio is  not viewed as a State that has huge, sparsely populated rural areas,  but we have enough, and we have a real lack of access to broadband to  be able even to do schoolwork, much less to start a small business. 

  So this is another area where we can provide some help for that here,  and it would come back in terms of increased dollars from having more  economic development in some of these rural areas. So I think there are  some things we need to do there as well. 

  There has been a lot of discussion about this issue of liability  protection. Let me tell you my perspective on this. It is very simple.  This should not be a partisan issue. I mean, we should not want these  hospitals and these schools and these small businesses and anybody to  be able to be sued for something that was totally out of their control.  This is not something anybody should be blamed for, certainly in this  country. We know where it started, in Hubei Province, in Wuhan, China.  But as for the fact that this has come over here and people are  affected by it, let's not have a trial lawyer bonanza here because that  will result in people not getting back to work. It will result in more  costs for our universities. 

  I understand some of them are being sued right now because they have  students who are telelearning. Well, yes, it is not their fault. You  can't bring students together right now in the dormitories. It is not  safe. 

  I know there is, again, kind of a partisan nature to this. It  shouldn't be partisan at all. We should all want people to go back to  work, to be able to go back to school, to be able to access the  healthcare system. 

  I also think that for my colleagues on my side of the aisle who might  want to make this broader than the coronavirus, let's keep it to the  coronavirus, and I think that is what people intend. Let's keep it to  COVID-19, and let's provide the kind of protections--sensible  protections--that are necessary to be able to allow people to get back  to a normal life. 

  People say: Well, things are going to be so different now in America.  They will be different. We will be more cautious. You know, we will  probably, therefore, have a less drastic flu season too because we will  be more careful. 

  With this pandemic, you know, we don't know if it is going to come  back again like it did a couple of months ago. Will it come back again  in the fall or the winter like that, but we have to be prepared for  that. So life will not be exactly the same. There is no question about  it. There will be some things that will be different, too. There will  be more teleworking because it is has worked well. It is cost  effective, and it is efficient. There will be more telemedicine because  it has worked well. 

  I have talked to a number of doctors who were actually very pleased  with some of the things they have been able to do remotely. I hope we  will have a Congress that works more remotely so when we are on our  recesses, as we do every August, and as we do periodically, that we  could have remote hearings on a more regular basis because it is great  information. 

  But, ultimately, I think our country will get back on track. Again,  we, as Americans, when we get knocked down, we get back up on our feet,  and that is what we will do. And we will have again not just the  greatest economy on the face of the Earth, but we again will be that  beacon of hope and opportunities for the rest of the world. People will  again look at America and say: I want to be like that. And we will be  able to show that and how we get back on our feet and how we get back  to a more normal life, and, once again, the greatest country on the  face of this Earth will be able to once again be able to show the world  an ideal for everyone to aspire to.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT