Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, this week, the Congress continues to work  on a bipartisan basis to try to respond to this coronavirus pandemic.  We have heard that the House of Representatives, under Democratic  majority, has a new proposal. We have ideas on our side. We have  already passed four pieces of legislation that deal with the  coronavirus pandemic. The total spending is about $2.5 trillion that  has already been spent. 

  The Speaker of the House proposed a new piece of legislation this  week that I think the House will vote on Friday. That is another $3  trillion. It is actually more than the previous four combined. 

  The legislation that she is proposing has a lot of items that aren't  directly related to the COVID-19 crisis. They are, as some have said, a  wish list of priorities, and others have said in the media that it is  more of a messaging bill. We will see. 

  Among other things, it says, as an example, that they want to change  the current law, which says that you are limited in terms of how much  of a Federal tax deduction you can take for State and local taxes. That  is called the SALT issue. They want to repeal that. That cost, by the  way, is about $180 billion--something like that. It would result in  about 50 percent of the tax benefit going to the top 1 percent of  taxpayers. That doesn't sound like something that is going to be  impactful in terms of the coronavirus pandemic we face. 

  I can think of a lot of better ways to spend that money, including  more testing, including ensuring that small businesses can get back on  their feet, ensuring that our healthcare system is sound, and other  things. We are going to continue to work on that. 

  My hope is that, as we did with the previous four, we can figure out  a way to come together--Republicans, Democrats, House, and Senate--and  look at what we have already spent, $2.5 trillion, and see how it has  been spent, understand what some of the gaps might be and address those  gaps. 

  As we are working on this issue, this pandemic is continuing to wreak  havoc all over the country. It has been devastating, let's face it. We  now have 30 million--30 million--of our fellow Americans who have lost  their jobs and are looking for unemployment insurance. These are people  who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. They lost their jobs  because the pandemic infected the economy, and they don't have a place  to work. 

  I know friends of mine, people I have known for a long time, who have  never been unemployed and are unemployed now for the first time. They  are getting unemployment insurance for the first time. They want to go  back to work, but they don't have a job right now. That has been  devastating to them and to a lot of small businesses. I talked to  people who have poured their lives and their resources into these  businesses. A guy tells me, I have been doing this for 40 years. I  started with a couple of people and got to a few more and a few more.  And now, boom, my doors are closed. Think of the movie theaters and the  bowling alleys and the small restaurants, the hotels, anything to doing  with travel and tourism, and these businesses are in tough shape. So is  the beauty parlor and the nail salon and the barbershop. 

  This is testing our resolve in ways that we had never expected. I  guess that is part of the point, we had never expected it because we  weren't prepared for this kind of pandemic. 

  Congress, again, has tried to help with these four measures we  already passed. I think they have helped, particularly with a lot of  the small businesses, and our healthcare system has been helped.  Trillions of dollars--$2.5 trillion of taxpayer funds have gone out to  try to be a rescue package to help people weather this storm. 

  Again, I hope the next package can be effective, not just in  weathering the storm but also in getting the economy moving--more  stimulus, giving small businesses the tax relief to encourage them to  invest more and add more jobs, maybe some smart spending in terms of  infrastructure; things like rural broadband that will create more jobs  immediately but also bring us closer to having real access for people  in poor areas of our country to be able to do the small business  development, to do telehealth, to do telelearning through broadband.  There are some things I think we can do that will actually help to  stimulate more economic growth. 

  As we work to address these problems at home, let's not forget how we  got here. My colleague from Wyoming just talked about this, but there  is a clear consensus now about one thing, which is that this all  started in Wuhan, China, which is a huge city in China, Hubei Province,  and that information about this horrible virus was concealed by the  Chinese Communist Party. Systematically and very deliberately they kept  the rest of the world from knowing about it 

  By the way, they kept it from their own people too. To the point made  earlier, this is not about the Chinese people. This is about the  Chinese Government, meaning the Chinese Communist Party, deciding: Oh,  gosh. We have a problem here. Let's not tell anybody--which goes  against all the rules. If you are a country and you have a virus that  is spreading, your responsibility--particularly as a member of the  World Health Organization--is to tell your own people but also tell the  rest of the world so that you can contain that virus. They concealed  it, deliberately. They must be held accountable for that. 

  Think of the devastation they have caused, not just in our country  but around the world--the number of people who have died, the people  whose lives have been turned upside down, the economy that has been  destroyed by this. 

  This information, this critical information, having been withheld  from the Chinese people and from the world has had a devastating  impact. At the start of this year, in January, apparently the Chinese  Communist Party said: Don't worry. There is no human-to-human  transmission of this virus--no human-to-human transmission of this  virus. They knew otherwise. 

  By the way, 4 million cases worldwide tell us they knew otherwise--4  million cases. It all started in one place, in Wuhan, China. There are  now 4 million cases. 

  This is something that is serious, and we need to address it. We are  also told that the Chinese Communist Party allowed people to travel  from Hubei Province, from Wuhan city--not to other parts of China,  apparently, but to the rest of the world. 

  If they had cut off travel to places like Italy and the UK and the  United States, we would not be where we are now. Luckily, our  administration acted quickly to shut off immigration from China, from  those hotspots, and for American citizens and the green card holders,  they had to go into quarantine. That helped, but the virus was already  here. 

  Very disturbing to me is apparently some Chinese Communist Party  disinformation went out claiming that America was at fault somehow.  This was classic propaganda disinformation. It is adding insult to  injury. Right? Not only did they not do what they should have done, to  tell the world about this and to help us to be able to contain this  virus--and, by the way, the World Health Organization was there to help  them. We were there to help them. We offered to go in. They wouldn't  let the World Health Organization experts come in for well over a month  after they knew. Some say it was a few  months because they probably knew it the end of last year. They must  have, given the number of cases they had. They also kept the experts  out from the United States who could have been helpful. 

  The World Health Organization is an international body where you have  membership, and they have requirements where you are required to report  data. You are required to have them come in when you have a virus like  this. Of course, we didn't know it was a pandemic at the time, but we  had a virus here that was concerning. Instead, it appears the World  Health Organization, instead of being an early warning system for the  rest of us, all around the world, which is what they should be--a virus  starts, and they are the ones who go in and deal with it--instead of  being an early warning system, in a sense, they were apologists for  China. 

  That is why some of us have called for an investigation of the World  Health Organization. We have asked the United Nations to convene a  special panel, some of us, to be able to look into this issue so that  it is not just America. The rest of the world ought to be involved in  this as well. All of the members of the WHO ought to be concerned. I  believe they are, about the deference they showed to China, at a time  we needed them to be on the spot helping. 

  We now find ourselves forced to rely on the source of the virus,  China, for a lot of our PPE, personal protective equipment. Think of  the masks and the gloves and the gowns that our frontline healthcare  workers need and others who are now interfacing with customers and  working together as coworkers. We have to rely on China for this. In  order to safely treat the COVID-19 patients who are sick and because of  this virus that originated in China, we now have to rely on China for  this safety equipment. That is unfortunate, and that needs to change. 

  We need to produce more of this here from more reliable sources. We  are hearing reports about delays in shipments now. We are hearing about  poor quality products--all of this is combining to affect our ability  to be able to respond. 

  The virus has brought pain and suffering to our shores and to  countries all around the world. Again, if they had followed the rules,  if China had played by the rules--again, not the Chinese people who  were also kept in the dark but the Chinese Communist Party--if they had  followed the rules, we wouldn't be in the situation we are in. 

  By the way, none of this is news when it comes to China's behavior on  the international stage. Getting China to play by the rules has been a  constant theme of mine and others for a long time.  

  Fifteen years ago, I was a U.S. Trade Representative, and I brought  forward the first successful case against China in the World Trade  Organization because they weren't playing by the rules. I also wrote a  report entitled ``Top to Bottom Review of U.S.-China Economic  Relationship'' that made policy recommendations to improve the equity,  durability, and balance of our trade relationship with China. My No. 1  priority was China. 

  When I was there, I established, for the first time, a USTR  prosecutor just for China. One of the recommendations was supposed to  put a negotiator in China from the U.S. Trade Rep's office. It is there  now. 

  Here in the Senate, as the chair of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, I have now led three bipartisan investigations on  China, including the Chinese Communist Party's use of what is called  the Confucius Institute at our high schools, sometimes grade schools,  at our colleges and universities. 

  We learned more than 100 U.S. universities had allowed the Chinese  Government to operate these centers, which often come with  stipulations, requiring them to comply with Chinese law--Chinese law-- even when they are operating in the United States. We know some of  these Confucius Institutes have been used as platforms for economic  espionage. 

  By the way, since we published our report in February of 2019, a year  ago, more than 20 Confucius Institutes in the United States have closed  their doors. Why? Because people have looked into this and determined  this is not just a cultural exchange. This has other aspects to it; as  an example, not being able to teach the real history of China, as if  things like Tiananmen Square did not exist. That is not something we  should allow to happen in this country. That doesn't comply with our  standards here of honesty and intellectual standards that says you have  to teach the actual history, not what the Chinese Communist Party says  is the history. Our students shouldn't be subject to that. 

  These Confucius Institutes have also spent a lot of money in this  country. Schools have taken money and have not properly reported it.  That is what our report indicated. As a result, the Department of  Education is now cracking down on some of these schools to say you have  to, at a minimum, report the funding. 

  Our subcommittee is right now wrapping up its review of three Chinese  Government-owned telecom firms that the FCC, the Federal Communications  Commission, licensed to operate here 20 years ago. 

  We share concerns with the Justice Department regarding these  telecommunications companies complying with U.S. law enforcement  requests and whether these entities pose a national security risk by  being vulnerable to exploitation by the Chinese Government and the  Chinese Communist Party. 

  Last year, the FCC denied a license to China Mobile to operate in the  United States for these same reasons. That investigation is coming to a  head. We are going to have a report coming out soon. We will learn more  about this. But again, we have to be sure we are not naive; that we  understand what is going on when these Chinese telecommunications firms  are here in this country. 

  The third Permanent Subcommittee investigation involves another  instance where China has not been playing by the rules as it relates to  stealing U.S. research and technology, often paid for by U.S.  taxpayers. Before the coronavirus put so much of our country on hold,  we were preparing to introduce legislation that was a result of our  bipartisan report and our yearlong investigation. That report details  how China has used what is called talent recruitment programs, most  notably what is called the Thousand Talents Plan, to steal U.S.  taxpayer-funded research. It turns out this has been going on for a  long time. For 20 years, this has been going on. It has helped fuel the  rise of the Chinese military and the Chinese economy during those 20  years. 

  You might ask, how has this happened? Every year, Federal grantmaking  agencies, like the National Institutes of Health, the Department of  Energy's National Labs, or the National Science Foundation, give out  taxpayer dollars for research. By the way, it is about $150 billion a  year. It is a lot of money. 

  These are important research projects. This is a good thing for our  country. It leads to new breakthroughs in science and technology. It is  helping make the United States the world leader in innovation. Your tax  dollars coming to Washington, going to the Department of Energy, the  National Institutes of Health, and National Science Foundation, out to  researchers and colleges and universities and research institutes--$150  billion a year--have led to a lot of breakthroughs. 

  The open and collaborative nature of research that is done here in  the United States is one of the reasons we attract some of the best and  brightest scientists and researchers from all around the world to take  part in this research. Yet what we have learned--and through our  report, we prove--is that this system is very vulnerable. It is  vulnerable to theft by other countries, and that is exactly what is  happening in the case of China. 

  China has made it no secret that its goal is to surpass the United  States as the world leader in scientific research. One way it has been  doing that is by using secret contracts with researchers here in the  United States. Again, it is doing research that is funded by tax  dollars--medical research, scientific research, military research. The  Chinese Government has actually been paying these people to provide  information to the Chinese Government to take this research and pay for  it by U.S. tax dollars. It is wrong, and it needs to stop, and our  legislation is intended to do just that.  

  At one of our Senate hearings on the report, a State Department  witness said: ``The Chinese Communist Party has declared the Chinese  university system to be on the front line of military-civilian fusion  efforts for technology acquisition.'' 

  In other words, the Chinese Communist Party has decided this talent  recruitment program is going to be well funded. We are going to pay  American researchers to give us their stuff but then also to connect  them to the Chinese university system, which the Chinese Communist  Party is using as the way to get technology, to acquire technology.  Again, it is not a new problem. This has been going on for two decades,  but we have done little in this country to stop it because we have this  history of being so open and accessible with our research. 

  The FBI came to our hearing and acknowledged this. From the Federal  Bureau of Investigation, they said that ``it should have taken more  rapid and comprehensive action in the past'' to respond to these  Chinese talent recruitment programs. Yes, they should have. Yes, they  should have. 

  Fortunately, the FBI and the Department of Justice have now taken a  different approach. They have begun stepping up their efforts this year  with several recent high-profile arrests and having charges filed, but,  again, more laws and practices need to change to stop U.S. taxpayer- funded research from being stolen in this way to benefit our No. 1  global competitor, which is why we are introducing this legislation. 

  The legislation is called the Safeguarding American Innovation Act-- to protect American research and strengthen our national security. The  legislation makes five necessary reforms to address the flaws in our  current research enterprise and to stop intellectual property theft and  promote a more secure and transparent process that is consistent with  the recommendations we laid out in our report. 

  First, the report found numerous cases of U.S.-funded researchers who  failed to disclose foreign sources of compensation on their Federal  grant applications. This issue has been highlighted this year. You have  probably heard about it because you may remember that earlier this year  there was the shocking arrest of Dr. Charles Lieber, the chair of  Harvard University's Chemistry Department, who was being paid both by  Harvard and the Thousand Talents program by the Chinese Communist  Party, it turns out. 

  According to the FBI, without Harvard's knowledge--he didn't tell  Harvard--Dr. Lieber was being paid up to $50,000 a month in salary by  the Chinese, $150,000 annually for living expenses, and more than $1.5  million to establish and run a shadow lab in China. Interestingly, the  lab was in Wuhan, China. None of this was disclosed on his Federal  grant application from which he got U.S. taxpayer money. If it had been  disclosed, he wouldn't have gotten the money. That is just wrong. 

  The criminal complaint is based on his not telling the truth to the  Federal investigators, even though he was essentially defrauding  Harvard and defrauding the U.S. Government's funding sources, but that  is not a crime. Failing to disclose compensation from a foreign  government is not currently a crime. We make it a crime. That is part  of our legislation. The bill gives the Justice Department the ability  to hold Federal grant recipients accountable for hiding their financial  ties to foreign governments by failing to disclose them on Federal  grant applications. Transparency and honesty on grant applications is  critical to the integrity of the U.S. research enterprise and to  stopping this theft. That is in our legislation. 

  Second, despite there being more than $150 billion in taxpayer  funding going to these Federal research agencies every year, there is  no unified tracking process to determine where these funds go. The  National Science Foundation, for instance, doesn't have anyone who  handles grant oversight. Again, we have been too lax. That is why the  bill requires the Federal Office of Management and Budget, the OMB, to  streamline and coordinate grantmaking between the agencies to ensure  that the billions of taxpayer dollars going to research every year can  be accounted for every step of the way. Having this information is also  going to save time and money for our research institutions and our  universities. They will now know where the funding is, where it is  going, and how it is being used. 

  Third, the State Department is on the frontline here in vetting visa  applications for visiting scholars and visiting students, but it is not  permitted to deny visas to individuals who come from overseas who are  intent on stealing U.S. research. That is just wrong. Our research  enterprise in this country must remain open. We agree with that, for we  want to attract people from around the world, of course, but we have to  have commonsense safeguards to prevent bad actors from taking advantage  of our openness. The legislation does that. It authorizes the State  Department to deny visas to foreign researchers who seek to access  sensitive U.S. research when it is determined that doing so will pose a  threat to our economic or to our national security. 

  By the way, the State Department wants this authority. The career  officers who came and testified before us said we would like to have  this authority because we know we are letting people in who are coming  for one reason and one reason only, and that is to take U.S. research. 

  Fourth, our report detailed a systematic lack of knowledge at the  U.S. research institutions about the threat posed by the Thousand  Talents Plan and other forms of academic espionage. For example, we  found that the Thousand Talents program had recruited a member who  downloaded more than 30,000 files from a Department of Energy National  Lab. These are our top National Labs in the country--highly secretive.  There were 30,000 files that were downloaded without authorization, of  course, and that researcher took those files with him back to China.  Our bill requires that research institutions have safeguards in place  to prohibit the unauthorized access to sensitive research. They have to  tighten it up. 

  Finally, we found that nearly 70 percent of U.S. universities have  consistently failed to report substantial foreign gifts as required by  current law. Our bill ensures transparency by requiring universities  now to report any foreign gift of $50,000 or more and empowering the  Department of Education to fine universities. These are new fines to  universities that repeatedly fail to disclose these gifts. 

  Now, there are some in the university community who don't love our  legislation. I would just ask them: Given what has happened, given what  we know is happening in terms of the theft of U.S. research, are you  really going to stand in the way of legislation that just says you have  to report when you receive more than $50,000 from a foreign government?  Is that too much to ask? I don't think so 

  Right now, they are supposed to report gifts of a higher level, and  70 percent of them have failed to do so. So it is not too much to ask,  and I would hope that the university community will be supportive. Many  are, but some are apparently saying they are going to try to block this  legislation. 

  Don't do that. That would be wrong. 

  The failure to stop the coronavirus early on has highlighted how  China does not play by the rules, whether they be the World Health  Organization's rules or the trade rules we talked about earlier, and  now it is with regard to this issue that we are dealing with in terms  of taking U.S. research back to China in order to fuel China's military  and China's economy. 

  When this pandemic passes and our universities and research  institutions reopen their doors, I have no doubt that we will, once  again, continue to attract the best and the brightest. Why? Because our  research enterprise is the best. We are innovators, and we provide  funding for it, and we have such great opportunities here in this  country to do research. People like to come here, but we cannot sit  idly by as our top global competitor steals that research. The  Safeguarding American Innovation Act is an important step toward  protecting it for the safety and security of every American. 

  Now, more than ever, we have to adapt to the fact that China is not  going to play by the same set of rules as the rest of the world. It has  been 15 years since we put out a USTR report  stating that our relationship with China lacks ``equity, durability,''  and sustainability. 

  Right now, our No. 1 priority is solving the coronavirus crisis. We  have to do that. There is no question that it ought to be our focus.  Yet, in the context of this crisis, we also need to reevaluate how we  do business with China. We have to look at this with fresh eyes. My  hope is that this legislation we have talked about this evening will  help to allow us to reset the way we conduct our research so we can  continue to reward those who come to our shores to discover new  breakthroughs in science and technology while we keep China and other  nation-state competitors from stealing that research for their own  purposes. We can achieve that balance, and we must                             National Police Week  

  Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to our police officers all  around the country. The men and women in blue serve us every day in  Ohio and every State represented in this Chamber. This week is National  Police Week. In normal times, right now we would have tens of thousands  of officers here in town. They do a big parade every year. We have them  in our offices. We get to meet with them and thank them for their  service. We would be able to have the opportunity to hear their  stories--to hear some of the brave, brave stories of those who have  lost their lives over the past year. They do a wonderful presentation  down at the memorial to thank and pay tribute to those officers. 

  Yet, even during this coronavirus, I am pleased that, this Friday,  folks around the country will be showing their support anyway. They  can't come here in person, but people are going to be displaying blue  ribbons and blue lights on their homes. The service to our communities  that these police officers give us every day has been more valuable  during this crisis than it has ever been, and I thank those police  officers for going out every day and putting their health right now and  even their lives, as they always do, on the line for all of us. 

  As I said earlier, I want to be sure that our municipalities and our  counties have the ability to pay those police officers so as to keep  them out on the street. That is why we need the flexibility in the  Federal funding that is going out because the budgets of these  municipalities are constrained. Because of the bad economy--because of  the coronavirus--we have to be sure that police officers are taken care  of. 

  This week, National Police Week, is a time of pause, a time to think  about the sacrifices these heroes make every day in order to keep our  communities safe, which is what they do every single day. They take  dangerous criminals and weapons and drugs off of our streets. They  enforce the laws we write here in this body. We write a lot of laws  here. They are the ones who are in the trenches--on the frontlines-- enforcing them. Even their very presence helps to deter crime and keep  our communities safer. So we thank them for the risks they take for  themselves, and we thank their families for the sacrifices they make  for all of us. 

  This week is a time to think about the police officers in our country  who have died in the line of service over the last year. Again, this  would normally be done in person down at the memorial, but I want to  talk about the four brave individuals who have lost their lives in Ohio  since we last had a National Police Week, which was a year ago. 

  In January, Officer Dale James Woods, of the Colerain Police  Department in Southwest Ohio, was tragically struck and killed by a  vehicle while he was responding to a traffic stop. Officer Woods  devoted his entire life to public service. He served for 15 years in  the town's fire department--the Colerain Fire Department--and then 15  years as a police officer. He did everything that could be asked of an  officer. They tell me sometimes he would be staffing the dispatch  station. The next day, he would be tracking down a lost dog. The next  day, he would be out there helping a citizen with a complaint. He did  everything that was asked of him with unwavering professionalism and  the commitment that we all come to expect from our police officers. 

  Officer James Woods of the Colerain Police Department, thank you. 

  The same can be said for Clermont County Sheriff's Deputy William Lee  Brewer, Jr., who died in the line of duty in February of 2019 during a  standoff with a criminal. Deputy Bill Brewer was a 20-year veteran of  the force. He was a local guy, someone whom everyone in the community  knew and loved. He gave his life for that community--the ultimate  sacrifice an officer can make. I attended his funeral and had the  opportunity to meet a lot of his fellow officers and hear stories about  him. I also got a chance to meet his wonderful family. I can say he was  admired and respected by all. The turnout for that funeral was  unbelievable. 

  Last November, we lost Detective Jorge Del Rio, a decorated 30-year  veteran of the Dayton Police Department. Detective Del Rio had been  working with the DEA, the Drug Enforcement Agency, on a task force to  crack down on drugs coming into a community that had been ravaged by  the opioid crisis. This was during a time when Dayton was one of the  communities in the country that had the most opioid overdoses and all  of the crime related to that, and Jorge Del Rio was there to help. He  was shot twice in the face while serving a warrant in relation to an  investigation into drugs. From the crime scene, investigators recovered  cash, fentanyl--the deadliest of all the opioids--and marijuana, along  with weapons. Detective Del Rio fought bravely for his life, but in the  end, his wounds were too much to bear. 

  This is an issue that is very personal to me. I have spent a lot of  my time working on this drug crisis and trying to get Congress to pass  legislation to stop this addiction so that officers like Detective Del  Rio don't have to fight and die in fighting this scourge in our  communities. 

  I was honored to attend Detective Del Rio's visitation, where I  joined hundreds of grateful citizens in an arena. Again, the turnout  was unbelievable with fellow officers, DEA officers, and police  officers. Officers came from all over the region. When I spoke with  Kathy--his wife--and their family, I told them his sacrifice was not in  vain and that he would always be remembered as a hero of Dayton, OH. 

  Earlier this spring, we lost another hero, Springdale Police Officer  Kaia LaFay Grant. On March 21, Officer Grant was helping her fellow  officers chase down a suspect who was fleeing by car. During the  pursuit, the criminal deliberately rammed his vehicle into her cruiser,  which caused her to crash. Officer Grant's injuries, sadly, were fatal.  An 8-year veteran of the force, she was the first ever casualty of the  Springdale Police Department and the first female law enforcement  officer in the tristate area to die in the line of duty in more than  100 years. Officer Grant was only 33 years old. My thoughts are with  her family as they deal with this tragic loss. 

  Although these heroic officers were taken from us, their examples can  never be taken away and will not be. Ohioans will remember them as  models of bravery and service, as examples of fellow citizens who, on  behalf of all of the rest of us, have the habit of walking into danger  rather than running away from it. 

  In our Nation's history, more than 24,000 police officers have died  in the line of duty. Think about that--24,000. Serving as an officer is  a dangerous job, I know, but we have legislation that we think would  help save the lives of some of those officers who put themselves in  harm's way. 

  I was proud to join colleagues last year in sponsoring legislation  called the Back the Blue Act. It is very simple. It says, if you target  law enforcement officers, you are going to pay a very, very high price.  That is appropriate. We think Back the Blue Act, which would increase  penalties on those who would attempt to harm or kill a police officer,  is going to make a difference because it will send a very strong  message in helping to deter some of these crimes. Ultimately, I think  that it will make our heroes in blue safer and help to save lives. 

  Again, I urge my colleagues to join me in standing tall with our  police officers and thanking them this week for what they do every day  to protect us. Let's back the blue. Let's do everything we can to  ensure that our police officers know we are with them and that we are  at their side as they do their critical job every day to protect us.  

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT