Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am here on the floor to talk about how  Congress can do a better job in responding to the coronavirus pandemic  that has gripped our country. 

  I just thought that debate was great, something we just heard a  moment ago about what we should do going forward. 

  This crisis is unlike anything we have ever seen. I mean, it has  devastated so many families. It has turned our lives upside down. It  has put an enormous strain on our healthcare system; and our frontline  healthcare workers, our researchers, our first responders are working  around the clock to help patients and look for treatments. For the past  couple of months, every American has been asked to do his or her part  through social distancing, through doing smart things like wearing  masks, like being sure that we are doing all we can within our home,  within our workplace, and out in public to stop the spread of the  dangerous virus. 

  I think these have helped. I think these measures have made a  difference, and I think we are in a better place by most metrics on the  public health danger. I just saw the numbers from Ohio a moment ago  here, and we have fewer new positive cases today than we have had over  the past week or the past few weeks on average, and so we are beginning  to make progress, but it has come at an enormous cost to our economy,  and I would say even at an enormous cost to our culture and our  society. 

  Since the crisis began a couple of months ago, more than 36 million  Americans have lost their jobs or filed for unemployment. Some  estimates show that we could potentially hit a 25-percent unemployment  rate before this is over. I think we probably will. By the way, that  would match the worst of our country's unemployment that we have ever  seen, and that would be during the Great Depression. That is where we  are headed. 

  Some small businesses have had to close their doors; others are  teetering right on the brink of bankruptcy. Hospitals have been closed  for needed procedures like mammograms and cancer screenings. More are  being missed every day, and basic healthcare is at risk. So that is one  consequence that we don't always focus on, but our healthcare system  has had to respond to the coronavirus appropriately. 

  But there is a balance here, and the result has been we have had  other healthcare needs that have gone unmet. 

  Without that revenue, by the way, from surgeries--so-called elective  surgeries, although some aren't very elective, like they are necessary  surgeries for a back or a knee or something like that--many hospitals  now are in very deep financial trouble because that is how they make  most of their money. 

  Colleges and universities, of course, are losing revenue, and  children are out of school, which is not a good thing because our kids,  many of whom are not able to get the same help at home that they can  get at school are falling behind. 

  We have also got to acknowledge the impacts of isolation on people's  mental health, on substance abuse. I talked to an individual earlier  today who focuses a lot on human trafficking, an area I have worked a  lot in, and he is talking about the increase he has seen in domestic  violence and human trafficking and the calls that have increased, the  number of suicides. 

  This is all troubling. This kind of a crisis, therefore, requires  swift and decisive action to ensure that we have got the resources and  the help to be able to respond to both the healthcare crisis, which we  have to address on the coronavirus front, but also on the economic and  the broader societal issues we talked about here and how it impacts us  and the rest of our lives. It is a tough balance. 

  I think, for the most part, Congress and the Trump administration  have done that. They have responded swiftly and correctly with major  new legislation. We came together here in Congress, on a bipartisan  basis, to pass legislation already that has addressed the healthcare  crisis the virus has caused. We have also passed legislation that has  helped the economic crisis caused by government at all levels  effectively pumping the brakes on the economy. 

  The legislation that has been enacted, of course, isn't perfect. It  is thousands of pages, and it is now four different bills that have  been passed already. I think it was necessary for us to act quickly, in  a unified manner, and on a bipartisan basis to get stuff done around  here. By the way, that bipartisanship has been a welcome change because  that is not typical for this place. 

  So far, on each of the 4 pieces of legislation we passed to respond  to the challenges of this pandemic, an average of 500 of the 535  Members of both the House and Senate have voted in favor of passage.  That is how bipartisan it has been. Five hundred of the 535, on  average, have voted yes on these 4 pieces of legislation. 

  These are not small bills. Combined, the funds provided by these  first four rescue packages total about $2.8 trillion. That is $2.8  trillion--$2,800 billion. Phase 3 of the CARES Act alone--the most  recent one we passed--is about $2.2 trillion in resources. That is an  unprecedented amount of spending. It has never been done before. It has  certainly never been done in such a short period of time. 

  Now Congress is talking about a fifth rescue package. The fifth  rescue package that is being talked about--it has already passed the  House of Representatives. It is being talked about even though--and  this might surprise you--only about half of the $2.8 trillion in the  first four packages has actually been disbursed. Think about that. Only  about half of the money in the first four legislative projects that we  have undertaken here has actually gone out the door to the intended  recipients. Yet we are talking about another package. 

  For example, the Paycheck Protection Program to help small businesses  stay afloat still has about 25 percent of its original capacity that  hasn't gone out, about $160 billion. Well below half  of the funding--the $175 billion that Congress provided to hospitals  has yet to be sent out under the Provider Relief Fund. Less than half  of the healthcare dollars have even gone out the door. 

  Of the roughly $450 billion that the CARES Act gave to Treasury to  unlock the Federal Reserve lending facilities, less than $40 billion of  that has been operational. That is right--less than 10 percent of the  money designated to provide direct lending to businesses of all sizes  so they can stay in business and hire people has been sent out. 

  So even though about half the money from the CARES Act hasn't even  been spent--and we still don't have a good handle, of course, on how  the money that has been sent out is being spent--Democrats in the House  have gone ahead and passed a new rescue package. 

  In many respects, it is a wish list of Democratic priorities that has  been talked about here on the floor. Some are related to the  coronavirus, and some are not. It passed by a near-party line vote. I  think one Republican voted yes and more than a dozen Democrats--more  moderate Democrats--voted no. Again, this is a $3 trillion package-- $3,000 billion. That is more than the total spending of all four of the  previous coronavirus bills. So all four of the previous combined are  less than the spending that the House is recommending for the fifth  coronavirus bill. 

  It is actually also a lot more money than Congress would normally  appropriate in an entire fiscal year. It is about half of what we just  appropriated from the fiscal year we are in, in one bill--in one bill.  I am sorry; it is twice as much as Congress appropriated for the  current 12-month period we are in. So the appropriations for this  fiscal year, 2020, are less than half of what the House is now  proposing to spend in one bill. 

  I think, you know, we have to be very cautious, and we have to be  sure it is the right amount of money going out because it is a huge and  unprecedented spending package. Our annual deficit here in the Congress  is already projected to be over $1 trillion. We were already running a  large deficit. 

  By the way, it has only been at that level four times in the history  of our country. So the $1 trillion was already viewed by many of us,  including me, to be an unacceptably high number for our annual deficit.  Now the estimate is that this year's annual deficit will be between  $3.7 trillion and $4.2 trillion--mind-boggling. We have just never had  deficits like these before. Of course, that adds to the $23 trillion  national debt, which is already at record levels. 

  We are entering dangerous, unchartered waters here from a fiscal  point of view. Most economists agree that this increases the chance of  a fiscal and therefore a financial crisis that would follow. 

  Of course, we have to respond to this immediate crisis. Again, I  voted for the first four bills. I believe it was necessary to act and  act quickly, but I also believe there are real limits as to how much  financial risk we should take beyond the, again, $2.8 trillion we have  already spent in the first four bills. We have to be sure, at a  minimum, that every new dollar is spent as wisely as possible, so it is  as targeted as possible. 

  Even overlooking the massive $3 trillion price tag, by the way, the  House bill also focuses on some things that just seem unrelated to this  crisis. For example, the House spends $136 billion on repealing the cap  on the State and local tax deduction. There is a deduction, but it is  capped right now. 

  By the way, this $136 billion policy they have in their bill would  deliver half of its benefits--50 percent of its tax benefits to the top  1 percent of taxpayers. Tell me how that is related to the coronavirus.  To put that in some context, we can use that same amount of money--the  $136 billion--to provide almost 2 million more PPP loans to small  businesses that need it most: movie theaters, bowling alleys,  restaurants, bars. 

  There are also provisions that would force States to adopt broad  changes in their election laws regardless of whether they want to.  Election law has always been in the province of the States, but that is  in this legislation. 

  They also want to raise taxes on employers. Bad time to raise taxes.  We want employers to stay in business because they are the ones who  create the jobs. 

  They also want to help cannabis growers, which I think is  interesting. Cannabis is mentioned dozens of times in the legislation. 

  They also want $50 million, as an example, for environmental justice  grants. What does that have to do with the coronavirus 

  Once more of the existing funds are delivered--in other words, as I  said earlier, of the first four bills, only about half of it has even  gone to the intended recipients. Once more of these existing funds are  delivered and we know more about what is working, what is not working,  and where the needs are, I suspect more funds will be needed. They will  probably be needed for the healthcare side of this--for testing, as an  example--and that is probably money well spent. 

  There probably needs to be more flexibility, as the Senator from  Louisiana just talked about. I believe there does need to be more  flexibility. I also believe we need to find out, once the money goes to  the local communities, what their budgets look like. Do they need more  money to be able to continue to provide police protection,  firefighters' salaries, and EMS services? We don't know that yet. How  can we know it when the money hasn't even gone down yet? In Ohio, not  one penny is gone except for the amount that went directly to the  largest five counties and the one large city. But the part that went to  the State hasn't even gone down to the local communities, and that is  happening all over the country. 

  We need more information to be able to know how much of this new  spending is necessary. But again, even with all the new spending, this  new $3 trillion House bill does very little to do something else really  important in the next bill, which is help get the economy moving.  Again, it raises taxes on businesses. It does some other things that  have nothing to do with the coronavirus. What it doesn't do is it  doesn't provide the stimulus you would hope would be in the next bill  we are going to pass because that is what everybody is looking for  right now. How do you do something here in Washington to make it easier  to create jobs, make it easier to invest, make it easier for small  businesses to get back on their feet? 

  Much of what we did in the first four bills was really a rescue  package, and it was necessary. People had lost their jobs for no reason  that they could do anything about. It wasn't their fault--36 million  Americans. We had to do something to shore that up--the direct  payments, unemployment insurance, and other things. We had to help  small businesses with the PPP program to ensure they weren't going to  close their doors, some forever. 

  Those were more rescue packages to get us through the storm, to  weather the storm. Now we have to figure out how we do something to  actually get this economy moving. That ought to be the goal because  there is a limit to how much Federal tax dollars can be relied on to  subsidize the economy. The better way is to get the economy moving, get  revenues flowing again, and reopen, therefore, our hospitals and  schools. Hospitals can get more revenue if they can reopen and do more  procedures, and they can keep from either shutting their doors or  relying on the Federal taxpayer for more and more subsidies. Getting  back to work is critical, and we have to do it in a safe way, and we  can. 

  We have to use social distancing smart practices. We have to be sure  we have the testing. I agree with all that. But any new legislation  that Congress considers has to include measures that are going to help  get people back into the workforce safely and get this economy moving  again. I think that should include some tax incentives for investment  and jobs. I think it should include some targeted infrastructure  investments to create good jobs and also economic benefits that come  from the right kind of infrastructure. 

  I think one place to start is Federal highway projects. We need to  pass that bill around here. Also, there are a bunch of State highway  projects that would normally be funded by the State gas tax. Because we  aren't driving nearly as much, the State gas tax has plummeted. In the  State of Ohio, for instance, there are a lot of great  projects out there that have gone through all the process. They have  been vetted, and they have gone through a merit-based process. They are  ready to go. In other words, they are shovel-ready. Yet the State is  not going to have enough money to pay for them. 

  So rather than sending the money to the States, how about sending  some money directly to these infrastructure projects? Good jobs.  Economic benefits. The analysis is, in the right kind of infrastructure  investments, you spend a dollar and you get back more than a dollar in  terms of revenue from the economic benefit. That is the sort of thing I  think should be in this next package to help get the economy back on  its feet. 

  Right now, I am told by small businesses that one of the biggest  barriers to getting the economy going is the unemployment insurance  provisions that were passed as part of the CARES Act back in March.  This is what I am hearing from small business owners all around Ohio-- that the additional unemployment insurance benefits in the CARES Act,  which allow individuals at or below the average income to receive more  in unemployment than they could get at work, is a disincentive to work 

  Of course, again, we needed to act to make sure people who lost their  jobs through no fault of they own could get by while government at  every level effectively pumped the brakes on the economy to better  withstand the health crisis. In other words, people lost their jobs  because the government said: You can't go to work. 

  At the same time, it was not the best solution to provide a flat $600  increase in benefits to everybody, which is on top of the State  unemployment insurance benefits, and that is what we did. That was the  proposal here that was passed. That continues, by the way, until July  31. 

  Wage replacement for people making at or below the average income  level would have been a good and generous approach--in other words,  saying: If you make up to whatever the wage average is in your State-- $52,000 a year, $48,000 a year, or $58,000 a year--you get full wage  replacement. But that is not what this is. The $600 on top of the State  benefit, which is, on average, $360 probably, puts you up near $1,000 a  week. That is more than wage replacement for people who make less than  the average wage. 

  Regardless of how you feel about the $600-per-week Federal increase,  we are in a very different situation now than we were 2 months ago when  we passed it. Back then, remember, we were encouraging people to stay  home and not to go to work because that was the time period when we  were shutting things down and we were giving stay-at-home orders. So it  made much more sense to have an unemployment insurance system that  actually would encourage people to stay home. Now we are reopening all  around the country, and, small business people are telling me: I would  like to get started again, but I can't get the employees. 

  Some say: Well, you can go to that unemployment insurance office and  say ``I have a job,'' and then, under the State's rules, they have to  tell these people ``You are no longer under UI, and you have to go back  to work.'' That is true, but, one, the unemployment insurance systems  are overwhelmed. They tell me that really is not something they have  the capability of doing right now. They are overwhelmed. They have  never seen these kinds of numbers ever. 

  Secondly, a lot of employers don't want to do that, and I get it.  Their employees are making a lot more money, in some cases, on  unemployment insurance than they can in their place of business, and  they are just hesitant to tell them to come back and make less money. I  do think there is a role for us to help make that happen and do it in a  smart way. 

  Things are different in other respects too. Not only is the economy  starting to reopen around the country, but it is being done in a much  safer manner. Why? Because we have a lot more testing, and that is  good. 

  We need to do a lot more, by the way. Ohio has gone from about 3,700  tests per day a few weeks ago to over 10,000 tests a day now. Soon it  will be over 20,000 tests a day in a couple of weeks, they say. That is  good. 

  We also have more PPE, personal protective gear, and that is  important because if you reopen--say you run a factory. You want people  to have the protective gear they need to keep them safe. 

  Also, we finally have some anti-viral medications coming online,  thank goodness. Remdesivir is the first one approved by the FDA. It is  now in Ohio, my own State, and other States. People are using it. That  is great. That gives people more comfort in being able to go back to  work more safely. 

  It is time to start to transition from thinking about helping people  get by and helping to encourage them to stay home through unemployment  to thinking about how we can get people back into the workforce safely  so we can get this economy, our small businesses, our hospitals, our  colleges and universities, back on track. 

  We should also want to help people get back to work because that is  good for everybody. It is where most people get their healthcare--from  work, from their employer. We want to get them back to that. It is  where most people get their retirement, their 401(k). Not everybody  offers it, but if you have one, you are probably getting it from work. 

  It is good to get people back to work and connected with their  benefits. It is also good to get people returning to a safe workplace  because that is what most people want to do. They want to go back to  work. They don't want to stay on unemployment insurance. Yes, it pays  more for many Americans, but they would rather be at work. The dignity  and self-respect for work is real. It gives meaning to your life. 

  I think we need to take a hard look at this flat $600 increase in the  unemployment benefits and ask ourselves whether it is really in the  best interest of those workers, of our businesses. Is it really the  best system to have it in place when we are trying to get people to get  back to work? Again, this additional $600 benefit on top of the $360  average the States have means that unless you are making more than  $50,000--or in some States, $60,000 a year--it is more advantageous to  be on unemployment insurance than to go back to work. 

  A recent study by the American Action Forum and the University of  Chicago says that between 60 and 70 percent of individuals on  unemployment are making more than they did in their prior job--60 to 70  percent. Further, for about 20 percent of wage earners, they say, on  average, they are making double on unemployment insurance what they  made in the workforce. So they say that for the bottom 20 percent of  wage earners, on average, they are making double on unemployment  insurance. 

  Again, people needed the help. They needed direct payments, and they  needed the UI help. A lot of people lost their jobs and had no income  coming in just to put food on the table, pay the rent, and pay their  car payment. Some people used this UI, even though it was more than  they were making before, to help with healthcare. That is important.  But isn't the best thing to do is to get people back to work? 

  We need to continue to help people during this time who have lost  their jobs, no question. Not every business is ready to reopen, by the  way, and the employees who had to be let go by some businesses  certainly shouldn't be punished for that. 

  At the same time, we have to ask ourselves whether there is a way we  can combine that need with the need to actually get people back to work  as we reopen. I think there is. Specifically, I would propose that  instead of keeping in place the additional $600 of the Federal benefit  for people on unemployment between now and July 31, let's shift some of  those Federal dollars to a back-to-work bonus--a program where you let  people take some of that $600 with them to work. I propose $450 a week.  Others have different numbers, probably. They think that is too much,  or they think it is too little. I chose $450 per week because that  represents the amount that would be needed to make a person making the  average minimum wage better off in the workforce than on unemployment.  When you take the minimum wages around the country, on average, you  take $450 a week with you to work. That means that you would be making  a little bit more in the workforce than you would be on unemployment.  

  What is more, this return-to-work bonus would put additional cash in  the hands of individuals who lost their jobs due to the health crisis,  which would provide additional stimulus to the economy, which is  experiencing historic declines in consumer spending. This incentive for  people to get back into the workforce to get our economy running again  is exactly the kind of policy we should all want. Instead, I will tell  you that as for the $3 trillion House bill we talked about earlier, all  it does is to propose extending the $600 per month from the end of its  expiration at the end of July into the beginning of next year.  

  We talked earlier about how the next package--whatever it is--ought  to encourage the economy to get moving again, right? The House bill  doesn't do that in a lot of respects we talked about. But,  specifically, on unemployment insurance, what it says is, let's  continue this policy of making it harder for people to get back to  work. It will ensure that that 60 or 70 percent of the workforce that  the study showed are making more on unemployment insurance would be  better off staying on the unemployment rolls. 

  By the way, it is also another $300 billion of taxpayer spending in  this $3 trillion bill. I don't think it is going to move our country  forward. It is going to make it even harder to get back on track. 

  By the way, our back-to-work bonus also benefits taxpayers. So  instead of $300 billion in additional funding that is going to go into  the House bill for unemployment insurance, if we assume that States  would have trouble enforcing their UI laws, which we talked about  earlier, and that individuals would choose unemployment over returning  to work, even if 25 percent of those who were on unemployment insurance  today chose to take advantage of this $450 bonus--and I think a lot  will; I think a lot more than that will, but let's be conservative, and  let's say that just 25 percent take advantage of it--that will result  in tens of billions of dollars of savings to the taxpayer. 

  Think about it. For the State, they will not have the unemployment  insurance benefit that they are providing because the person will be at  work. That is good. And for the Federal Government, the $600 is reduced  to $450. So that enables savings to the taxpayer. It enables people to  get back to work. It allows our small businesses to be able to reopen. 

  It is a solution that I think Republicans and Democrats alike can get  behind. Let's continue to help the people who can't return to the  workplace through no fault of their own, but let's also remember that  the American people right now are looking to us here in Congress to  come together on a bipartisan basis to put in place policies that will  actually help move us forward in this crisis, get back to normalcy, get  back to work safely, and get our economy back on the historically  strong footing it had here only a few months ago. 

  Back in February, we had the 19th straight month of wage increases of  over 3 percent, most of which was going to lower income and middle- income workers. We had unemployment tied with the 50-year low.  Unemployment was low then. It is incredibly high now. 

  To get back to that, we have to put some more policies in place, and  I believe the back-to-work bonus is exactly that. It will not solve  everything, but it will help people get back into jobs, and it will  send a clear message that Congress is looking forward and providing a  positive path forward for workers, for small businesses, and for  taxpayers. 

  Thank you. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT