Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, I would like to take a few moments  today to talk about the current situation with regard to Iran. 

  First, the decision to take out Qasem Soleimani. Let's remember who  he was. He was leader of the Quds Force and the Islamic Revolutionary  Guard Corps--both of these groups, by the way, having been designated  as terrorist organizations. 

  He was responsible for providing the Shia militias in Iraq with  explosively formed penetrators. What does that mean? These were the  extremely deadly improvised explosive devices--so-called roadside  bombs--that were responsible for killing over 600 American soldiers and  injuring many more, at least a couple thousand. 

  Some of those maimed or killed were from my home State of Ohio. My  heart goes out to their families for their sacrifice. 

  I got a chance to see some of these brave Americans in visits to the  Landstuhl military hospital in Germany and the Walter Reed Hospital  here in Washington, DC. We must never forget their courage and the  sacrifices they and their families have made. 

  Over the past 2 months alone, Soleimani helped direct more than 11  attacks against our forces in Iraq. In fact, he was found recently to  be plotting more. When he was killed, he was plotting additional and  imminent attacks with the commander of the Shia militia--the same  commander who directed both the rocket strikes that killed the American  contractor and wounded four American service personnel in Erbil and the  demonstration and assault against the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. 

  Thankfully, that commander was taken off the battlefield as well. 

  For reasons I have outlined, the killing of Qasem Soleimani was both  legitimate and justified. His history of fomenting terror and murdering  innocents goes back decades, and the world is a better place without  him. 

  Some of my Democratic colleagues have been critical of the  President's actions against Iran, to include the killing of Soleimani.  Some argue that our actions have been unwarranted and belligerent. In  fact, given the facts, I believe President Trump has shown restraint in  the face of continued Iranian aggression over these past 18 months. 

  By authorizing the killing of the leader of terrorist organizations  that were actively plotting more violence against our brave men and  women, I believe President Trump reset the concept of deterrence and  fulfilled his duties as President. 

  As GEN David Petraeus said after the Soleimani action, ``This was a  significant effort to re-establish deterrence.'' I would call that  peace through strength. 

  Last evening's Iranian missile attacks against our forces and air  bases at Erbil and Al-Asad was a continuation of the reckless and  provocative approach. Thanks to the professionalism and capability of  our Armed Forces, despite over a dozen Iranian missiles aimed their  way, there were, fortunately, no American or allied troop or Iraqi  casualties--amazing--  and there was only minimal damage to our bases. For that, of course, we  are very thankful. 

  I listened to President Trump this morning, and I agree that the  maximum pressure campaign against Iran must continue, and it should  include additional sanctions. 

  There is a way forward for Iran to rejoin the international community  rather than continue to be a pariah and the top sponsor of state  terrorism in the world. President Trump has said on many occasions he  is willing to negotiate with Iran if they cease their belligerent  actions in the region and come to the table. 

  We do not desire war with Iran, but we cannot and will not stand idly  by as they continue to attack Americans, continue to kill our forces in  the Middle East. 

  I have been in meetings with top administration officials today and  yesterday, and I look forward to continued discussions on their  strategy moving forward. 

  I will continue to pray for the safety of our men and women in  uniform who are forward deployed, who put their lives in danger for all  of us and do so for the sake of peace and stability. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT