Government Transparency


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today there is a discussion about  transparency. I am going to talk about one that is maybe going to  surprise some people, but it is about the lack of transparency and  about $150 billion a year that is taxpayer money that is put into  research and development. It is money that we, as taxpayers, pay to  places like the National Institutes of Health. The National Institutes  of Health does great research. So the Federal dollars go in there to  try to develop cures--as an example, for diseases, but also for other  healthcare research. There is the National Science Foundation, which  does a lot of research on technology and research, and the Department  of Energy, which does a lot of the basic research on science in our  country. So I am going to focus on that funding today and a specific  problem we have right now. It is about ensuring the government remains  accountable to taxpayers. It is about ensuring that hard-working  American taxpayers know where their money is going, and it is about a  specific issue of that money going to research that is then taken by  other countries, particularly by China, and the need for us to address  that issue, in part, through transparency and, in part, through  actually some new criminal statutes to be able to ensure that there is  accountability. 

  Last fall, the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations did a study.  It was about a yearlong study. We looked at this issue of China's  talent recruitment programs and, more broadly, other countries, but,  specifically, what China has been doing to find researchers over here  in the United States whom they think are doing interesting work and  recruiting those people to be able to provide that research and  sometimes to have the person actually go to China to provide that  research. 

  The issue we focused on in our report was this theft of intellectual  property at research institutions and at our colleges and universities.  It was a shocking report. We issued it late last year. It showed, as  you probably know now from some of the press accounts that have arisen  since then, that, in fact, China was recruiting individuals who were  giving up their research that was taxpayer funded. 

  China has made no secret of its goal to surpass the United States to  be the world leader in scientific research, but that doesn't mean they  should use our research institutions here in America, paid for by us,  to accomplish that goal. These talent recruitment programs--most  notably, the Thousand Talents Program--recruits researchers at American  universities and American research institutions to do the same  research, usually at shadow labs in China, in order to just transfer  taxpayer-funded research back to China. 

  This is an issue that has been going on for two decades, we found  out, and  really kind of right under the nose of the FBI and others. The FBI  testified at our hearing and said they readily acknowledge that they  were asleep at the switch, essentially, that they had not been on top  of it, and they have only recently begun to focus on it. 

  We have seen the results of that, by the way. Little was done to stop  it, but, recently, there has been a lot of publicity. You probably know  about the recent arrest of Dr. Charles Lieber at Harvard University.  Dr. Lieber actually lied to Federal investigators about his  participation in the plan, and that is what they have charged him with. 

  Most recently, today, we heard about another one, Dr. James Lewis at  West Virginia University, who pleaded guilty to fraudulently requesting  time off to raise a newborn, when he was actually in China conducting  research as part of his agreement with this same group, the Thousand  Talents Plan. Now, this is a definite conflict of interest. 

  As an example, Professor Lieber is accused of accepting $50,000 a  month from the Chinese talent recruitment program and, also, $150,000  in funding just for his expenses--now, remember, he is already being  paid by Harvard--but also accepting $1.5 million to set up a shadow lab  in China. He did not tell his employer, Harvard, about this. Again, he  was not honest when talking to the Federal prosecutors, which is how he  came to be charged. So the fraud that he was committing was not the  charge because that is not a criminal offense. It needs to be one. 

  With regard to the guy from West Virginia who just pleaded guilty  yesterday, we don't know all the details yet there, but we know that  this, again, is research that was being done, we assume partly funded  by taxpayers, and this talent recruitment program was able to get that  research. 

  So this can lead, obviously, to a real problem because it is helping  to fuel not just the Chinese economy but also the Chinese military.  Some of Professor Lieber's research, apparently, was done for our  military, and, therefore, they got military research and, we assume,  military secrets as well. 

  So they provide a reputational risk to the universities we are  talking about, of course, and so many others around the country. But it  is also just unfair to taxpayers, because this is government funded for  the benefit of America, not to one of our stiffest global competitors.  

  So we are working with the Trump administration to ensure that we  know where that taxpayer money is going and making sure it is going to  benefit the United States of America. 

  Along with my counterpart on the subcommittee on the Democratic side  of the aisle, Tom Carper from Delaware, we plan to introduce bipartisan  legislation that uses the key findings in our subcommittee report to  ensure that our research enterprise is protected here in this country  and also to ensure that it continues to be open and transparent and  accountable but also secure. Our legislation does this in a few ways,  and a lot of it has to do with more transparency. 

  First, it creates a new cross-government council at the Office of  Management and Budget to coordinate and streamline the grant-making  process between Federal agencies so we know where the money is going  and how it is being used. 

  Right now, these agencies don't talk to each other, and we don't know  much about the grant-making process. We need to make that transparent.  Sunshine, I think, will be a very effective disinfectant here. 

  Second, the bill makes it illegal to not tell the truth on a grant  application. Apparently, that happens all the time now. We requested  some of these grant applications from the Thousand Talents Program. We  weren't able to get all the information we wanted, but we got enough to  know that most of these contracts, apparently, have the individuals  saying: OK, I will accept this money from the Chinese Government  through this program, but I will not tell my employer about it. On the  grant application, they have to say that they will not reveal it.  Obviously, that is defrauding the U.S. Government. 

  The third part of our legislation closes the loopholes exploited by  China and other countries and empowers the U.S. State Department to  deny visas to foreign researchers who seek to exploit the openness of  our U.S. research enterprise to steal intellectual property and  research from our universities and research institutions. 

  Now, this is something that the State Department has worked with us  on and has asked for. They are looking for additional authority from  us. When they know somebody is not here on a good-faith effort to do  research but, rather, to take our research, they want to be able to  act. 

  Fourth, it requires research institutions and universities to have  basic safeguards against unauthorized access to sensitive technology.  You would think that is already in place, but, apparently, it is not.  Also, it requires them to tell the State Department what technologies a  foreign researcher will have access to on campus, so, again, we can  start talking to each other, including folks at the State Department,  law enforcement folks, and people in our research institutions. 

  Fifth, it directs the U.S. Government to work with our critical  research partners--think of Japan or Australia or the UK--to protect  their research enterprises from Chinese theft as well. We are not  interested in having U.S. taxpayer dollars go to do research here on  which we then collaborate with a foreign government, an ally, and then  that research is taken back to China or other countries. So we want  more information about working with partners, as well, to protect that  important research. 

  And, finally, it requires colleges and universities to report any  gifts of $50,000 or more and empowers the Department of Education to  fine universities that repeatedly fail to disclose these gifts. Current  law requires reporting at the level of $250,000. So if you get $250,000  from a foreign entity, you are supposed to report it. In our study we  found, shockingly, that 70 percent of U.S. universities consistently  failed to do that. So the universities don't want to report the fact  that they are getting money from foreign governments, but we need to  know that. The taxpayers need to know that. 

  Lowering the threshold from $250,000 to $50,000 and increasing this  transparency, including adding the penalty, ensures that those schools  will report. In my view, that will lead to accountability and what we  are looking for, which is more information. 

  Beyond these provisions, we are all going to have to do more to  protect the U.S. research enterprise. My bill makes it clear that  research institutions receiving taxpayer dollars have to do a better  job giving the government just basic information about foreign  researchers they partner with. 

  By the way, academics tend to agree. On Monday, the President of the  American Council on Education in an op-ed agreed with our report's  recommendation that research institutions should establish a ``know  your collaborator'' culture--know whom you are collaborating with, know  what their background is. 

  Providing basic information about researchers and what they will have  access to on campus allows the State Department to properly vet foreign  researchers before issuing them a visa. Frankly, it is hard to believe  that universities aren't already required to tell the U.S. State  Department this information, but they aren't. 

  A few universities and academic groups have raised concerns about the  administrative burdens. We don't want to unnecessarily burden any  research institution, university, or college, but we do want the  transparency. 

  It is my hope that our research institutions will step up and do  their part as patriots to help us ensure that our taxpayer-funded  research does not fall into the wrong hands. Research universities need  to take a hard look at what is happening on their own campuses. This  threat is very real. If universities expect to continue to receive  billions in taxpayer research dollars, Congress has to ensure the  academic community is taking basic, commonsense steps to secure the  research. I believe our legislation is a balanced way to ensure that  will happen. 

  We talked earlier about the actions by college professors who have  now been in the media. They have been charged by the FBI and others.  One thing we do in this legislation, as well, is that we establish a  new criminal law with regard to defrauding a university or defrauding  the U.S. taxpayer.  

  Again, the reason these charges that we talked about earlier were  able to be brought is not because of the fraud that was committed but  because, in one case, someone lied about the reason they were looking  for leave, and, in the other case, someone lied to the FBI about  whether they were involved in the program or not. So these were perjury  issues, really, not in terms of the fraud. Our legislation also  tightens that up. 

  I think we all agree that the relationship we have with China is  complicated. There is some good, and there is some bad. In my view, it  is in both of our countries' interests to have a healthy relationship  and have an exchange of new ideas and have the ability to collaborate  where appropriate, but we cannot allow this continued theft of  taxpayer-funded research. 

  My hope is that this legislation will send a firm but fair signal to  China to change their behavior, respect our laws when it comes to  research, and see the wisdom of our research values here in the United  States of openness, transparency, reciprocity, integrity, and, most  importantly, merit-based competition. 

  I encourage my colleagues to take a look at that legislation. We hope  to introduce it the week after next, when we are back from recess. We  believe that this legislation will be incredibly important to ensure  that we can protect this research that taxpayer dollars are funding. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT