MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Wyoming, and I  think he has made it very clear what is at stake here. We are in a  crisis. Our economy is in a free fall. The people we represent and  families are suffering. The healthcare system is under tremendous  stress. 

  I spent the morning on the phone, talking to Ohioans and small  business owners, people who are out of a job and worried and nervous.  We all know somebody who has lost a job. We all know somebody who has  tested positive for this virus. Some of us, including me, know somebody  who has died from the coronavirus. 

  We need to pull together as Republicans and Democrats, as Americans,  and address this crisis. I got to listen this afternoon to colleagues  of mine on the other side of the aisle talk about the legislation that  is before us, and I have to tell you, it was like they were  talking about another bill, not the one that we actually are asking  Democrats to allow us to vote on. 

  The one we are asking them to allow us to vote on is the product of a  bipartisan process. The majority leader set up five different task  forces. Each task force is represented by Republicans and Democrats. I  was in one of them--two Republicans and two Democrats. We sat down, and  we hammered out details. We took Democratic ideas, and they are  represented in the legislation. 

  This process we have gone through--very different, by the way, from  what happened in the House with regard to the first bill. We got an  $8.3 billion healthcare bill. We also had a phase 2 bill, which is  about $200 billion, that provided free testing and health insurance and  healthcare and paid leave. 

  Now we have this bill that is $1.8 trillion--$1.8 trillion. That is  about as big as our entire domestic discretionary spending, which we  approve here every year. Yet Democrats are saying that it is not enough  money. 

  So the most charitable way to describe what the Democrats are asking  for now--although Senator Barrasso did a good job of laying out some of  the outrageous demands that have come up that have nothing to do with  coronavirus--but the most charitable way to say it is that they want  more money. They want more money for States. They want more money for  hospitals. They want more money for so many things. 

  Guess what. There is $1.8 trillion in this bill, including billions  of dollars--hundreds of billions of dollars--for those purposes. If we  find out in 3 weeks, in 6 weeks, or in 2 months we need to do more, we  will. But that is not an excuse for stopping the progress of this  legislation now when it is so badly needed. 

  One of the calls I got this morning was from a small business owner.  Do you know what he said to me? He said the same thing I am sure all of  my colleagues are hearing, which is this: I am watching; I am waiting;  I don't want to pull the trigger and let my employees go. I started  this business. I started it from scratch, and now I have to see the  prospect of these people, whom I know and love, losing their jobs. I am  waiting. I am waiting to see what you do today. 

  The country is waiting. The markets are waiting. People are hurting.  They are suffering, but they are waiting to see if we can get our act  together and actually come up with something that helps them. And do  you know what? This legislation does exactly what all of us, I thought,  wanted to do. 

  There are three things it does. One, it helps keep people at work. We  want people to stay with their employer, have a job, have their  healthcare, and have their retirement. Two, it helps workers who,  through no fault of their own, lose their jobs. This legislation does  that. And, three, let's get this healthcare crisis under control. Let's  slow the spread of the coronavirus. All three of those things are  precisely what is in this legislation. 

  Last night, I went through in detail and described every detail of  how it addresses that and where the bipartisan ideas came from. I won't  do that now because I see the majority leader on the floor, and I want  him to have an opportunity to speak. But I will tell you, those three  objectives are in this legislation--specifically laid out in this  legislation. 

  On the healthcare side, which is so important, we need more masks; we  need more gowns; we need more ventilators; we need more respirators;  and we need to have more testing and a system to track that. That is in  this legislation. There is over $4 billion to CDC to do exactly that.  We need to have some data, some metrics, some measurements to know how  we are doing and to be able to get out of this crisis because, until we  deal with the healthcare crisis, we will continue to have this failure  of our economic system because we are letting people down right now. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. I will yield. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, reclaiming my time, that is added to the  absolutely inaccurate descriptions I have heard from the other side as  to what is in this legislation. 

  In other words, they are blocking us from moving forward, creating  the procedural hurdles that the majority leader just talked about, but  also doing so by telling the American people, for instance, there is  not enough in here for small businesses. My gosh, this is an  unprecedented program for small businesses, something we have never  done before. We are telling businesses: If you are paying your  employees to stay there, you not only get a loan, you get a grant 

  They say there was not enough in here to help people who are falling  between the cracks. It is an unprecedented unemployment insurance  system that we are setting up here. 

  By the way, if you look at the unemployment insurance side, look at  it this way. What we are saying is that we want to increase by eight  times the cost of the national unemployment insurance system. That is  how I look at it. It is an additional $600 per week, per person. It is  a broader employment system because we are going to bring in people who  are self-employed, people who run the gig economy--something that we  should be doing as a matter of reform, perhaps, but in this case we  have to do it. These people are hurting too. This is unprecedented to  provide people who are low- and moderate-income Americans the ability  to have wage replacement through unemployment insurance. That has never  been done before. That is in this legislation. 

  This is a rescue package. It is to help people weather the storm. It  is to ensure that we have the ability to say to the people who are  calling us and saying ``Please help us'' that help is on the way. 

  Are we going to solve every problem in this one bill? No, although  $1.8 trillion goes a long way toward solving the problem. But we will  be back here again. We will be back here to ensure that we can fine- tune this legislation. And if we need to react to other challenges, we  have to do that because our constituents need it. This is a crisis. 

  But in the meantime, let's pass this legislation. It does help small  businesses and keep people at work. It does protect those workers who  lose their job through no fault of their own. It does take our  healthcare system, which is under such tremendous stress, and improve  it in every respect to deal with this coronavirus, to slow the spread  and ensure that we can tell the American people: Not only are you going  to be safer and healthier if this legislation passes, but guess what,  you have a fair chance of keeping your job and being able to take care  of your family. 

  With that, I yield to my colleague. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT