Opioid Epidemic


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, one area where this Senate and the  Congress, in general, along with the administration, have made  significant progress is combating the ongoing drug addiction crisis in  America that has affected so many families represented by all of us in  this Chamber. 

  In my home State of Ohio, we have been on the frontline of this  crisis for years. Opioids, in particular, have taken a heavy toll in  our communities. In fact, in 2017, our opioid overdose rate in Ohio was  almost three times the national average, with nearly a dozen Ohioans  dying from these dangerous drugs every single day, making it the No. 1  cause of death in Ohio, surpassing car accidents. 

  Since 2017, we have begun to make progress, finally, to be able to  turn the tide on opioids. In 2018, after a decade of increased overdose  deaths every year for the previous dozen years, we finally had a  reduction, a 22-percent reduction in overdose deaths. By the way, that  led the Nation in terms of the percent decrease. It is still way too  high--unacceptably high--but we are starting to make progress. 

  A lot of it goes back to what is being done here at the Federal  level, but also the State level and local level, to address this  problem. We have dramatically increased funding here for treatment for  recovery, including providing Narcan as a way to save people's lives.  It is a miracle drug that reverses the effects of an overdose. We have  done some things that are very important. More recently, we have sent  these resources through legislation that the President signed into law  just last year. There are resources also provided by the State opioid  response grants and also by our bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and  Recovery Act, or CARA, helping our first responders to be able  to use innovative and new approaches to ensure that individuals whose  overdoses are reversed go into treatment rather than just overdosing  again and again. 

  The good news is that at the end of the year, the spending bill that  Congress passed secured a record $658 million in funding for these  Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act grants, or CARA grants. I was  the author of that legislation, initially, along with Sheldon  Whitehouse on the other side of the aisle. We started off with closer  to $200 million. Now, we are at $658 million. Why? Because it is  working. 

  I have been back home, going from place to place, seeing how it  works. I have watched some of these first responders in action with  social workers and treatment providers who are going into people's  homes and getting people into treatment who previously were not. We  can't rest on our laurels because we have to do a lot more to address  all forms of addiction that are increasingly becoming a problem. 

  We have seen in Ohio and around the country that psychostimulants  have now come back with a vengeance. This would be crystal meth from  Mexico and cocaine. It is surging in communities across our State.  According to our deputy attorney general in Ohio, law enforcement  officials in 2018 tested double the amount of methamphetamine samples  as they had in 2017 and triple the amount from 2016. In other words,  crystal meth is growing. Higher and higher amounts of it are coming in  and more and more people are being affected by this. I heard this at  roundtable discussions around the State. 

  I was in Knox County last year, learning that the prosecutor's office  estimates that 80 to 90 percent of all drug incidents included crystal  meth. Opioids used to be their biggest problem in Knox County, as it  has been in all 80 counties in Ohio until recently. Now it is pure  crystal meth coming in from Mexico. 

  I am pleased that the spending bill at the end of last year that we  passed just last month changed the way in which our funding is  delivered in the fight against addiction. Specifically, included in  that is my Combating Meth and Cocaine Act. This is an important bill  that allows States the flexibility to use the roughly $1.5 billion in  grant funds allocated specifically to combat opioids. The 21st Century  Cures grants, now called the State response grants, can all be used for  the treatment and recovery services for new threats like crystal meth  and cocaine. 

  Giving our local communities that flexibility is incredibly  important. I have heard it constantly when I am back home. We have now  done that. We have been able to help even further to try to reverse the  effects, not just of the opioid crisis but of the drug crisis and all  forms of addiction. 

  We have made significant strides in ensuring that we can respond to  this ever-changing addiction crisis. I am proud we are able to do it.  As I said at the beginning of this speech, this is a pretty divisive  time in Washington, to say the least. No one can deny that. What I  hoped to show by highlighting these achievements over the past year is  that even in a highly partisan environment, it is possible to bring  people together to get things done and pass laws that make a  fundamental improvement to the lives of the people we represent. 

  While lots of time finding that common ground takes more work, it is  worth it. The extra effort goes a long way. Fortunately, we are coming  into this new session of Congress having already laid the groundwork  that we need to do to continue to fight this addiction crisis. 

  Critical right now to that fight is passing bipartisan legislation  that will help us to push back against a particular kind of opioid, the  synthetic opioid called fentanyl. Fentanyl came on the scene 5 or 6  years ago with a vengeance. Just as we were making progress on reducing  the use of heroin and prescription drugs, suddenly, this fentanyl  arrives. It is a synthetic opioid. It is 50 times more powerful on  average than heroin. It is now the No. 1 killer. It has been the last  few years. In States like mine, Ohio, when you look at the numbers over  the past few years, although we are making progress on other opioids,  we are not making progress on fentanyl. Why? Because it is being mixed  into all kinds of other drugs, including crystal meth, including  opioids, including all street drugs. The improvements we have seen are  significant, but fentanyl continues to be the No. 1 killer. 

  Fentanyl, unfortunately, knows no ZIP Code and is devastating  individuals and families all across the country. According to the most  recent data available from the Centers for Disease Control and  Prevention, there were 72,000 drug-related deaths in the United States  in 2017, and 40 percent of those deaths were involving fentanyl. That  data showed that the overdose deaths due to fentanyl had increased at a  rate of 88 percent per year, on average, since 2013. 

  It is a real threat to our States. In 2017 alone, we had a record  3,500 overdose deaths in Ohio that were attributable to fentanyl. Last  fall, our Narcotics and Gun Enforcement Task Force seized 45 pounds of  fentanyl in a single bust in Montgomery County, in Dayton, OH. There  was enough of the drug to kill the entire population of Ohio. 

  That is why the Drug Enforcement Agency made the right call in 2018  to make fentanyl-related substances illegal to possess, transport, or  manufacture. This means they have been scheduled. Thanks to that  designation, our law enforcement officials have been able to better  protect our communities by seizing and destroying large amounts of  these fentanyl-related substances, which are the analogs to fentanyl.  So that is good. 

  Unfortunately, due to Federal law, the DEA was only able to make  these dangerous substances illegal on a temporary basis. Think about  that. You have this deadly drug that is 50 times more powerful than  heroin. Back in 2018, we were able to finally make not just fentanyl  but all of its analogs--fentanyl-related substances--illegal. Law  enforcement was using that to begin to push back, and now we find it  was only temporary. Guess what. We are fast approaching the end of that  designation. Next month, on February 6, which is 3 weeks from this  Thursday, fentanyl-related substances will once again be legal, and it  will be much harder to keep vulnerable communities safe from these  deadly substances. We cannot let that happen. 

  I met earlier today with former Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, who is  now our Ambassador to China. For years, many of us have been pushing  China to do more to crack down on fentanyl because most of the fentanyl  that comes to this country and kills individuals in our communities  comes from China. Most of it has been coming through our mail system.  We have done a lot to stop that. We have passed the STOP Act, which  tightens up the post office's screening process, which has worked very  well over the last year. We have also provided more money under the  INTERDICT Act in order to provide better equipment not just to our  Postal Service but also to the private carriers like DHL and FedEx. 

  What has happened is, China has also done a better job of making  fentanyl illegal and scheduling the precursors and analogs to fentanyl,  and we have pushed them very hard on that. I have myself been to China  and have personally done that, and I know Ambassador Branstad has  pushed China hard on this. Finally, China has begun to start addressing  this rampant production in its country. 

  Terry Branstad told me today--and I agree with him--that the  credibility of the United States to continue to provide pressure to  China to do the right thing will be eroded dramatically if we don't  continue to schedule fentanyl. As we are asking China to do it, we  cannot let this designation lapse here. Obviously, what is most  important is that we not let it lapse because it is the wrong thing to  do and because it will affect all of our communities and all of our  families who have been affected by this dangerous drug. 

  We can't let it happen. That is why, last fall, Senator Joe Manchin  and I introduced a bill called FIGHT Fentanyl, which codifies the Drug  Enforcement Agency's precedent to permanently schedule fentanyl-related  substances. So forget these temporary designations that have caused  these issues; let's permanently schedule these fentanyl-related  substances. 

  It has very strong bipartisan support. In fact, as of a couple of  weeks ago,  every single U.S. State's and territory's attorney general has now  endorsed our bill. That is all 50 States and 6 territories. That  doesn't happen very often. This is a bipartisan group of law  enforcement officials who has said: We support this legislation, the  FIGHT Fentanyl Act, that we introduced last fall. I am confident we can  get it passed if it comes to the floor for a vote. There are other  approaches to it as well that are slightly different than ours. I  support those as well. 

  The point is, we need to pass legislation to ensure that February 6  doesn't come and go without our scheduling these fentanyl analogs. It  is a good example of the need to continue working across the aisle on  this issue. We have done a good job with it so far. As I have said,  even in these contentious times, we have to do it again, and we have to  do it soon. I am told that during impeachment, it is impossible or at  least very difficult to legislate on any other topic without having  unanimous consent. So we need to get this done before next week, before  we get the Articles of Impeachment and before the U.S. Senate begins  the impeachment trial. 

  I urge all of our colleagues to focus today on this issue. Join us in  this commonsense, lifesaving legislation. Let's work together. The  Committee on the Judiciary has been working on this, and others have  worked on this. We have legislation at the desk to be able to solve it.  I hope we can do it by unanimous consent, but we have to do it. This is  lifesaving legislation to keep fentanyl from spreading its poison even  further. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT