Portman Statement Following DOJ Indictment of Top Harvard Research Professor


U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) issued a statement today in response to the Department of Justice (DOJ) indictment of the chair of Harvard University's Chemistry and Chemical Biology Department for not disclosing his affiliation with the Chinese government's Thousand Talents Plan.  Portman, as chair of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, unveiled a bipartisan report last November that highlights concerns about China's Talent Recruitment Plans.  He issued the following statement: 

"Today's charges by the Department of Justice reflect the concerns highlighted in the bipartisan Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations report issued last year detailing China's ongoing efforts to recruit academics at U.S. universities and research institutions as a means of facilitating intellectual property theft.   

"The charges show the lengths that China will go for access to top-notch research here in the United States.  Under his Thousand Talents contract, China paid Dr. Lieber up to $50,000 a month in salary and $150,000 a year for living expenses.  Dr. Lieber was also awarded more than $1.5 million to run a shadow research lab in China and recruit others for his research team.  The court documents show that Dr. Lieber received $18 million in research grant funding from DOD and NIH and allege that he lied about his association with the Thousand Talents program. 

"I applaud the Justice Department and the FBI for taking proactive steps towards cracking down on China's talent recruitment programs, but we must do more to ensure that taxpayer-funded American research is not misappropriated to benefit our rivals like China. In the coming weeks, I intend to introduce bipartisan legislation to help protect the integrity of our world-class research enterprise and I look forward to working with my colleagues on these bipartisan legislative solutions." 

NOTE: Last November, Senator Portman, as chair of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, unveiled a bipartisan report titled Threats to the U.S. Research Enterprise: China's Talent Recruitment Plans.  The report documents how American taxpayers have been unwittingly funding the rise of China's economy and military over the last two decades while federal agencies have done little to stop it. Starting in the late 1990s through its "talent recruitment plans," China began recruiting U.S.-based scientists and researchers and incentivizing them to transfer U.S. taxpayer-funded intellectual property to China for China's own economic and military gain. 

During a follow-up hearing on November 18, 2019, Assistant Director of the Counterintelligence Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) John Brown confirmed that the FBI should have taken more rapid and comprehensive action in addressing China's strategic plan to acquire knowledge and intellectual property from researchers, scientists, and the U.S. private sector through their talent recruitment programs. On the Senate floor, Portman discussed the findings of the report and how the U.S. must do more to stop the theft of taxpayer-funded research and intellectual property.