Portman Highlights Legislative Accomplishments in 2019


U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) today unveiled an extensive list of legislative accomplishments for 2019, the first year of the 116th Congress, just as he did in the previous Congress.  In 2019, 21 of Portman's bills and three of his amendments were signed into law.  In total -- during his nine years in the Senate -- Portman has successfully enacted 172 of his legislative priorities into law, including 126 bills as well as 46 amendments.  He has introduced more than 400 bills; more than 300 of which have been bipartisan. A full document of his legislative victories in 2019 can be found here.  

"I'm proud of the accomplishments we made in 2019 to address the real challenges facing Ohioans," said Portman. "These legislative accomplishments support economic growth, job creation, and greater retirement security, support Ohio's military installations, bolster efforts to protect our environment, including our Great Lakes, combat the drug addiction epidemic, make health care more affordable and accessible, and increase cybersecurity. This year, I will continue to be an independent voice for Ohio fighting for common-sense solutions to benefit our state.  That includes working to pass my bipartisan JOBS Act, which will expand access to Pell Grants so Ohioans can afford shorter-term job training programs so that they have the skills necessary for the jobs available today. I'll work to pass my FIGHT Fentanyl Act, which will permanently criminalize fentanyl-related substances so that law enforcement can keep these dangerous synthetic opioids out of our communities. We must do more on retirement security, which is why I've introduced the Retirement Security & Savings Act. Finally, I'm working to ensure the Senate passes the new U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement, which will expand markets and level the playing field for Ohio workers, farmers, and small business owners. I'm confident that we can continue to make progress on these and other issues in 2020. My top priority will continue to be delivering results for Ohio."

NOTE: Following are some highlights of Portman accomplishments for 2019:

-Portman delivered on his promise to combat the ongoing drug crisis in the country by securing enactment of his Combating Meth & Cocaine Act to give states more flexibility to use federal opioid funding to address the resurgence of meth and cocaine. He also secured $658 million for Comprehensive Addiction & Recovery Act (CARA) grants to help expand education, treatment and recovery services to help combat addiction.  -He worked to create more jobs and economic opportunity for Ohioans, including those living in rural areas, by encouraging infrastructure and broadband development.  He worked to strengthen retirement security by spearheading passage of the SECURE Act in December, which includes reforms sponsored by Portman designed to help more Americans save for their retirement.-Portman has taken a leading role in the effort to pass the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, which passed the House in December and is poised to pass the Senate soon. He has fought to open markets for American farmers, workers and manufacturers, and highlighted how the trade pact will benefit Ohio.-He has also worked to ensure the safety and security of all Americans by strengthening the military installations throughout Ohio -- like Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Youngstown Air Force Reserve Station, and the Joint Systems Manufacturing Center in Lima -- to create jobs and opportunity for Ohio's servicemembers. In addition, as co-founder and co-chair of the Senate Artificial Intelligence Caucus, Senator Portman has worked in a bipartisan manner on several key measures to set high-quality standards around emerging technology, including cybersecurity and artificial intelligence. Portman is now helping lead federal efforts to promote the responsible use of artificial intelligence both inside and outside the federal government.-Portman has long made clear that there is no place in our society or our country for hatred or religious intolerance of any kind. With mounting threats made against the Jewish community in the United States and Jewish Community Centers in Ohio, Portman came out strong in defense of religious tolerance and stood in solidarity with the Jewish community. In 2019, the House and Senate passed Portman's bipartisan legislation -- the Protecting Faith-Based and Nonprofit Organizations From Terrorism Act. The bill authorizes the Department of Homeland Security's Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP), which provides grants to nonprofits and faith-based organizations to help secure their facilities against a potential terrorist attack for five years. Portman was successful in his efforts to fund the NSGP at $90 million in the final FY 2020 funding bill.-Last year, Portman continued his work to ensure that all Ohioans can succeed in life by removing barriers that would have impeded Habitat for Humanity's work to provide affordable housing to low-income families, helping those with a criminal record from becoming productive members of society, and working to reduce homelessness by helping to prevent avoidable evictions.-Portman continues to be a leader in the bipartisan effort to protect our Great Lakes and the environment.  Whether it is promoting energy efficiency legislation, promoting recycling, protecting our national parks, or improving the health of Lake Erie and Great Lakes, Portman continues to deliver results for Ohio.