Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, I am here to talk about the pain,  frustration, and anger that many Americans are feeling this morning. In  the midst of an unprecedented healthcare and economic crisis that is  disproportionately affecting our minority communities, we have seen  protests spring up across the country in response to egregious examples  of injustice and violence against African Americans. 

  Just in the past few weeks, there have been graphic videos of Ahmaud  Arbery gunned down while jogging on a street in Georgia; a White woman  in Central Park calling 9-1-1 to falsely accuse an African-American man  of threatening her; and George Floyd pleading for his life as a White  officer pressed his knee onto his neck for nearly 9 minutes in  Minnesota, killing him. 

  Joining many others, I have made it clear that what happened to these  Americans is outrageous and unacceptable. It was very hard to watch  that video of George Floyd, a man whose family described him as a  ``gentle giant,'' literally begging for his life. ``I can't breathe,''  he said. ``Don't kill me,'' he pleaded. Those were his final words.  This simply cannot be allowed to continue in America. By the way, no  one I know in law enforcement believes this behavior should be allowed  either. 

  Each of these acts and other acts of injustice against Black  Americans is deeply troubling in its own right. The combination of  these injustices right now, in the midst of concerns about the  disproportionate impact of the coronavirus on communities of color, has  created a firestorm. 

  Right now, many feel overwhelmed by the sadness, anger, and  helplessness. Our hearts are with the families of George Floyd, Ahmaud  Arbery, and every American who has experienced injustices in the  shadows, away from the cameras, outside of the news headlines, in their  daily lives. 

  It is good that Federal, State, and local investigations are underway  in the Floyd and Arbery cases and that murder charges have been filed.  We must all demand that justice be served fully and thoroughly. We are  a nation of laws, and we must work to uphold those laws to protect  everyone. But my fear is, like so many other times in our Nation's  history, what will happen is that these killings will fade from the  public's consciousness and we will move silently back to the status  quo. We can't allow that to happen this time. It is past time for us to  have a robust and inclusive national dialogue on racial inequities and  some difficult but necessary conversations about how we move forward as  a country. 

  Over the past couple of days, I have spoken with the mayors of  Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Columbus--our three biggest cities in Ohio,  all three of which have had peaceful protests and destructive rioting.  I commend each of them for their support of citizens demonstrating  peacefully and for what they have done to try to stop the violence. We  talked about cultivating hope for a better world. 

  I will continue to try to use this podium here in the Senate to  foster unity and discussions with my colleagues, my constituents, and  leaders across Ohio. We need to work together to find solutions that  promote strong families and communities that treat each other with  respect and dignity. 

  I believe one place to start is by holding up those police  departments around the country that have made substantial reforms in  training and accountability and improved relationships with communities  of color, all the while ensuring better public safety for their  citizens. 

  In my home town of Cincinnati, in the wake of similar racial  injustice protests in 2001, I worked alongside local officials to  develop a better relationship of shared respect between the Black  community and our police officers. It is called the Collaborative  Agreement. It is not a perfect system, and it has been tested, but it  has also proved to be a valuable tool to ensure continuous and open  dialogue between the African-American community and the police force.  The data is there. There has been a measurable drop in Cincinnati in  cases both where police officers used excessive force and where  officers themselves were injured. 

  The Federal Government provided support for this program. A lot of  the  support came in terms of the computer systems and the data and the  transparency and accountability. There is more work to be done, so the  Federal role should continue in Cincinnati, but this may be a model for  other cities to follow as well. 

  As we look at what actions this body should take, I have been  encouraged by some of the good ideas brought forward by some of my  colleagues. My colleague from South Carolina, Senator Tim Scott, is  introducing a bill that would encourage greater reporting of fatalities  that occur while individuals are under arrest or in police custody.  When we know more about what is happening and emerging trends, I  believe we will be better able to address the right public policy  approach 

  Now would also be a good time, in my view, to establish a national  commission on race, as was done in 1967 by President Johnson in  response to the civil unrest of that era. Perhaps the honorary cochairs  of such a commission could be people of standing, like former  Presidents Obama and Bush, both of whom have spoken eloquently about  racism as a stain on our national character. It would not be a  commission to restate the problem but to focus on solutions and send a  strong moral message that America must live up to the ideal that God  created all of us as equal. 

  Sadly, there are those who are trying to take advantage of the pain  and suffering by instigating acts of violence aimed at the police,  looting, vandalizing, and setting fires, usually in the very  communities that are suffering so much. It pains me to see the  disrespect that has been shown by some, including to some of our small  business owners and their employees in these communities, who are  watching something be destroyed that they have spent their lifetime  building. It pains me to see the disrespect being shown to some of the  officers who are doing their job in a professional manner. It heartens  me to see some of the peaceful demonstrators trying to stop these  destructive acts. 

  Violence is not the answer. It will only serve to further divide our  already polarized country. George Floyd's younger brother, Terrence,  said yesterday:  

       It's OK to be angry, but channel your anger to do something       positive or make a change another way because we've been down       this road already. The anger, damaging your hometown, is not       the way he'd want.  

  We cannot dismiss the anger and frustration that have driven so many  to the streets for peaceful protests these past few days. The anger on  display is real. It is raw. And it deserves to be heard and respected.  This is something we must all learn from, and we mustn't thwart the  rights of those who are demonstrating peacefully. But the answer is not  violence. The answer is to insist that justice be served. The answer is  to listen to those who have felt the sting of racism. The answer is to  acknowledge when racial disparities and inequities occur, and the  answer is to work together to address these longstanding injustices  going forward. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT