Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Education Relating to Borrower Defense Institutional Accountability--


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, my colleague from Ohio just spoke about  Nathaniel R. Jones, who was a circuit judge with the Sixth Circuit  Court of Appeals in Cincinnati and had a distinguished career as a  judge but a long, distinguished career as a true champion of civil  rights going back to the 1960s and was also general counsel of the  NAACP when landmark cases were decided. I also happened to have had the  privilege of getting to know him over the years and considered him a  dear friend. 

  We have a resolution that passed the Senate last month with regard to  Judge Jones, and I am pleased to join my colleague Sherrod Brown today  in paying tribute again to Nathaniel R. Jones. That resolution is now  in the Congressional Record and therefore the agent for all of us to be  able to understand the importance of the work he did and for future  generations to understand the importance of the march to freedom that  he represented.                              Great American Outdoors Act  

  Madam President, I am also here on the floor today to highlight the  introduction of landmark new legislation called the Great American  Outdoors Act. It is to ensure that some of our country's greatest  resources and our greatest treasures, including our national parks, are  taken care of for generations to come. 

  I am proud to help lead the introduction of this bill along with my  colleagues Senator Gardner, Senator Manchin, Senator Daines, Senator  Warner, Senator Alexander, and Senator King. I also want to thank  President Trump and his administration, first for President Trump's  support of the Restore Our Parks Act, which is part of this  legislation, over the past few years but also for their support of this  broader legislation, the Great American Outdoors Act. 

  In the spirit of President Teddy Roosevelt over 100 years ago,  Federal land management agencies like the National Park Service, the  U.S. Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and others have  worked to designate and preserve some of the most beautiful and  historic parks of our country. Those lands, of course, include those we  all know of as our national parks--Yosemite, Yellowstone, some of the  great ones, Glacier--but also more modest sites like the boyhood home  of President Taft in my home State of Ohio. 

  In all, the National Park Service and its system include more than 84  million acres of parks and historical sites that now attract 330  million visitors annually. Actually, that is a record. More people are  going to the parks than ever. That is great. The concern is, when they  get to the parks, sometimes the parks aren't working for them because  of the huge infrastructure needs and the deferred maintenance problems. 

  We have eight of these national parks in Ohio, including Cuyahoga  Valley National Park, which is our largest single park and actually is  the 13th most visited national park in the country. It is a great park.  Whether it is for biking, hiking, fishing, or kayaking, I am one of  those 2.7 million visitors to Cuyahoga Valley National Park and Ohio's  national parks every year. I want to be sure these public lands are  preserved so more Americans can visit these incredible sites into the  future. 

  Going back to my days as the Director of the Office of Management and  Budget in the George W. Bush administration--going back about a dozen  years--I have taken the lead on figuring out ways to help protect our  national park sites throughout the country. At that time, we proposed-- in the Bush administration--a centennial bill. We were coming up on the  100th anniversary of our national parks, and the notion was to get more  public-private partnerships involved in the parks. President Bush and  his Secretary of the Interior at the time were very supportive of this  effort, as was the Office of Management and Budget. 

  After my time in the Bush administration, I was a member of the  Centennial Commission on the National Parks, and here in the Senate, I  am the author of what is called the National Park Service Centennial  Act, which was signed into law in 2016, on the 100th anniversary, to  establish the Centennial Challenge Fund for the national parks. 

  By the way, that Centennial Challenge Fund has done pretty well--$113  million has been appropriated, but it has been leveraged by an  additional $147 million from the private sector. So it has worked  exactly as we intended it to--in fact, even better; it has been even  more than a one-to-one match--the notion being, you put a challenge  fund out there and say, if you care about the parks, the Federal  taxpayer will put in some money, and you hope the private sector will  also match it, and it has been more than matched. 

  We also established the centennial endowment at what is called the  National Parks Foundation. This endowment is intended to fund projects  to address things like deferred maintenance at our parks. Separately,  that centennial endowment has now $31.5 million in it.  

  We know there is more work to do, though, to protect our national  lands to ensure they are going to be there to enjoy for the future. The  Great American Outdoors Act will help us in moving forward with this  mission through two main initiatives. 

  First, it will permanently fund what is known as the Land and Water  Conservation Fund through a provision offered by Senators Gardner and  Manchin--a $900 million initiative. The Land and Water Conservation  Fund provides resources to State and local governments, as well as the  Federal Government, to acquire land and water so that they can be  protected. Often this is your city park back home, so sometimes it is  neighborhood land. Sometimes it is land that connects to a national  park or a national forest. Sometimes there is a checkerboard pattern of  private ownership and public ownership, and it helps to connect those  together to preserve some of our existing public lands. 

  In any case, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has been successful  over the years. Since its creation in 1965, over $330 million in LCF  funding has gone to protecting land in Ohio, as an example, and  ensuring recreational access to those lands. 

  The second part of this legislation is that, along with the LWCF, the  Great American Outdoors Act includes our bipartisan Parks Act. It is  called the Restore Our Parks Act. I authored this along with Senator  Warner, Senator King, and Senator Alexander. 

  As I said, the parks and public lands are some of our greatest  treasures in this country. The problem is that, over time, we have  allowed this maintenance backlog to build up, meaning that a lot of the  buildings and infrastructure, the roads, the bridges, and the water  systems are deteriorating to the point that a lot of them are  completely unusable. 

  Again, it is great that a lot of folks are going to the parks now,  but when they get there, sometimes the trail is closed, the bathroom is  not working, and the visitor center has a leak in the roof and can't be  used. So it is time for us to put some funding into these deferred  maintenance expenses. Some would call them, perhaps, capital expenses. 

  Why has this happened? Well, because although every year we  appropriate funding for the parks, the funding is for the operations of  the park--for the nature programs, for the rangers, for just the day- to-day activities--not for these infrastructure or capital expenses or  what we call deferred maintenance. 

  I have seen this firsthand in Ohio, where there is more than a $100  million backlog in long-delayed maintenance projects at our eight  national park sites. Last fall I was at the Cuyahoga Valley National  Park. I go there frequently. It is a great park, but it badly needs  more than $15 million in repairs--renovations for shelters, for parking  lots, for a bridge that is dangerous to cross, for railroad tracks.  There is a scenic railroad that runs through the Cuyahoga Valley  National Park, but the railroad track is in such bad repair that it is  dangerous--or will be soon--to go on that scenic railway. Trails have  been falling apart because of erosion, and they don't have enough money  to do it. 

  Let me give an example. The Cuyahoga Valley National Park has about  an $11 million budget every year. So the taxpayers of America come to  us here in Congress and say: Let's fund our parks. We fund the parks  for daily operations, and $11 million goes to Cuyahoga Valley National  Park--again, the 13th most visited national park. It is a great park.  There are a lot of visitors. It is sort of a suburban and in some  places almost an urban park as well as a rural park. It is exactly what  we need more of. A lot of kids access it--a lot of schoolkids. Well,  the deferred maintenance is over $50 million, so at $11 million a year,  how do you pay for that deferred maintenance? That has been the  challenge. 

  Elsewhere in the State, I have toured Perry's Victory and  International Peace Memorial, which is on the shores of Lake Erie. This  is at Put-in-Bay, so if you know Put-in-Bay--a famous spot for  recreation, but the historic part of it is Perry's Victory Monument. It  was established under those who fought in the Battle of Lake Erie in  the War of 1812, as well as to celebrate the long-lasting peace between  Britain, Canada, and the United States. So it is an important  historical marker. 

  There I saw some of the $48 million in long-delayed maintenance needs  at the  site, which includes millions in needed repairs to fix a concrete  seawall that is literally crumbling. The high-water level of Lake Erie  has been part of the problem. Part of the problem is that it is just  old, and it is crumbling. There are sinkholes around it. You are not  allowed to go near the seawall or therefore near the lake. The visitor  center needs significant updates and needs to be made ADA accessible.  The Americans with Disabilities Act requires that they make it  accessible, and they don't have the funds to do that. 

  In that case, there is a $48 million price tag to do the maintenance  repairs, and their annual budget is minuscule because it is a small  park. It is a monument with a small visitor center. Yet they have this  huge expense. 

  I have also been to the Hopewell Culture National Historical Park in  Chillicothe to see millennia-old burial mounds from the original Native  Americans who were there and earthworks from the area's pre-Columbian  inhabitants. Again, I also saw there about $3.5 million in unmet  maintenance needs, including needed repairs to the exterior of the  visitor center and its trail system. 

  Parks have a lot of issues that over time have built up, and that is  a huge problem for us. In a way, it is kind of like being a homeowner:  If you allow the deferred maintenance to build up, if you don't take  care of the roof, what happens? Your drywall gets wet, and you have  mold in the drywall, and then the floor starts to buckle. But for being  able to fix that roof, you have all kinds of other problems. That is  what has been happening in our parks. The costs just keep mounting. The  total backlog at the national parks is now believed to be over $12  billion. 

  By the way, we require the parks to keep these lists: What are your  most urgent needs, and what are the broad needs you have in terms of  deferred maintenance? So we have good data on this one, and we know it  is over $12 billion. 

  It is a compounding problem. If you don't fix it, it gets worse and  worse and worse, which only increases the cost to taxpayers. The longer  we wait to address these maintenance needs--not fixing the hole in the  roof creates a lot of other costs for taxpayers. 

  I like this legislation because essentially it is saying: These are  debts unpaid. This is work that should have been done previously. So  let's find a funding source that is appropriate to that. I think the  funding source we found is the right one, which is the on- and offshore  oil and gas revenues. Instead of going into the U.S. Government, some  of these are going to be diverted to our national parks to pay for  expenses that have been there for years that we should have paid for  earlier but just don't have the method and the ability to pay for those  kinds of capital expenses or those kinds of deferred maintenance  projects in the annual budget. 

  So that is why we need to address this problem, and it is a problem  that is growing. We don't want it to get worse. Again, it comes at a  time when visitation is pretty good. From 2006 to 2017, annual  visitation increased by more than 58 million people. Again, over 330  million people visited the parks last year. That has also put, I  believe, more pressure on the parks and on this deferred maintenance we  talked about. 

  The challenges of keeping up with it have stretched our land  management agencies thin--not just the parks but the Forest Service,  our fish and wildlife refuges, our other Department of Interior land.  We have more issues now because so many of these lands have been using  bandaids to kind of get through it, and that doesn't deal with the  underlying issues, so the costs are mounting. 

  We initially introduced this commonsense solution to just deal with  the parks, which, again, have reached over $12 billion. Since then, I  am pleased to say we have worked with our colleagues on the other side  of the Capitol, who included these other lands, and also with the  administration to include funding for other land management agencies  that also have deferred maintenance issues--again, the Forest Service,  the BLM over at the Department of Interior, the fish and wildlife  refuges, and some of the Bureau of Indian Affairs lands. 

  To address this, the legislation before us creates what is called the  Legacy Restoration Fund, which will provide $1.9 billion per year for 5  years--it is a 5-year program--from unobligated on- and offshore energy  revenue. So these are royalties from that energy, which is actually  increasing as we do more exploration. So it is a total over 5 years-- $1.9 billion a year--of $9.5 billion to be divided across the National  Park Service, which gets the bulk of it, but also the Forest Service,  wildlife refuge, Bureau of Land Management, and Bureau of Indian  Affairs. 

  It addresses only the priority needs because that is not enough to  take care of all the needs. But the way the parks have analyzed this,  they have priority needs of about $6.5 billion, as an example, out of  the $12 billion, and all of those needs can be met with this funding.  It is not all that is needed. We know we will have to go back at this  again. But it is a very important bill--to do this for these 5 years to  ensure that we can indeed have these treasures continue to be places  where visitors can come from around the world, from around the country,  from the Cleveland city schools right next to the Cuyahoga Valley  National Park, and enjoy the majesty of our public lands. 

  I want to thank my colleagues again--Senators Gardner, Manchin, and  Daines--for their support in helping to put this final package  together. I want to thank our Restore Our Parks Act colleagues who have  been at this a long time--4 or 5 years--Senator Warner, myself, and  also Senator Alexander and Senator King. 

  Finally, I would like to once again thank President Trump for his  strong support of the Restore Our Parks Act over the past few years and  now of this new product that has come together. He understands the need  to protect the natural beauty of our public lands. I spoke to him about  it today. 

  To me, the Great American Outdoors Act is the next step in carrying  out Teddy Roosevelt's legacy, Teddy Roosevelt's mission of protecting  the environment for future generations. 

  I look forward to the ability to debate this on the floor of the U.S.  Senate week after next and to then pass it with a strong bipartisan  vote and send it to the President for his signature to ensure that this  landmark legislation, this historic legislation, can be enacted into  law. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT