Remote Voting


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, I appreciate my colleague from South  Dakota giving me a minute to respond to the comments of the Senator  from Illinois about remote voting. I appreciate his joining me today on  a bipartisan resolution to say that, during times of emergency and  crisis, the U.S. Senate would be able to vote remotely in a secure  manner. I think it is time for us to turn to this. 

  I actually supported such legislation back in the House when I was  there almost two decades ago. At the time, we didn't have, frankly, the  electronic communications we have today to be able to safely vote  remotely; now we do. We have the ability to do it in a secure way, in  an encrypted way--a way that would protect the fundamental right to  vote. I think it is important that we move forward with this. 

  It is something that would be up to the majority leader and the  minority leader to jointly agree upon. Once they agreed upon that,  there would be 30 days. After 30 days, Congress would have the vote-- the Senate would have the vote to continue it. 

  I think--not just because of COVID-19, where we have an obvious  problem right now but the threat of terrorism, bioterrorism--these  sorts of issues, unfortunately, are part of our 21st century life. We  have to be aware of the fact that this is possible. 

  It is important to me and I think all my colleagues that article I be  heard; that the legislative branch be heard; that we have the ability  to convene for the continuity of government and not allow what we would  normally do, which is perhaps to shift over to article II--to the  executive branch--or not to be addressed at all. 

  I thank my colleague from South Dakota. I thank Senator Durbin from  Illinois for working with me on this project. My hope is we can see a  change in our Senate rules coming out of this process so that we can  have the ability to do our constitutional duties regardless of what is  happening with regard to the National Capital or the crisis we are  currently facing with COVID-19. 

  I yield back my time. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT