Senate Legislative Agenda


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, it is good to be back in session. After 6  weeks away from this place, it is good that we are all together working  on some very important things. 

  In the past 6 weeks, since we haven't been here in session working  together, a lot has changed. America has been overtaken, really, not  just by the coronavirus but by the economic damage it has caused. 

  More than 30 million Americans have now filed for unemployment, and  most believe we are approaching the highest unemployment we have had in  this country since the Great Depression. It is a concern and  particularly troubling because, if you think about it, just a few  months ago, back in February, we hit a 50-year low in terms of  unemployment in this country. So we have gone from a strong and growing  economy to one where many people are out of work and many businesses  have been shuttered. Some of these businesses tell me they may have  shuttered permanently. I hope not, but it has been a tough time. At the  same time, churches and schools have been closed. 

  Some States have begun to reopen their economies, which is fantastic,  but a majority of Americans are still living by very strict social  distancing guidelines. 

  I hear constantly from Ohioans about how much this has upended their  lives. Sometimes small business owners will tell me a heartbreaking  story of how they spent 30 or 40 years building a business, and now  they have seen it devastated. They are in a situation where they have  no cash flow and can't keep the business open. 

  At the same time, a lot of Americans have been teleworking. They have  still been working, but they haven't been going to the office or going  to the factory. They have been working from home and figuring it out. 

  Just like everything else, here in the Senate, we have been affected  by this pandemic. As I said, we have been shut down for 6 weeks. This  started back in March. One of our colleagues actually came down with  the virus, but it was really on the advice of health officials and  public health experts that we decided not to reconvene. It was probably  the safe thing to do at the time. 

  Again, it is good we are back now. We are back now with the  recommendation of the attending physician and other top medical  experts. We have been wearing our masks dutifully and when appropriate.  We have been keeping our social distance. 

  My desk is actually over there, but there was another Senator over  there, so they put me here, which is good. We have been doing this  successfully this week, and that is great because we need to be here  representing the voice of the American people. 

  However, I will tell you, during these 6 weeks when we weren't  convening, there was a lot of work to be done too. Yet Congress was  unable to do it. Why? Because, unlike probably the majority of the  people whom I represent, we don't telework. We work, yes. We were home  working hard. But we weren't involved in debates here. We weren't  involved in hearings. We weren't involved in debates on the floor. We  weren't involved in voting. 

  During that time period of 6 weeks, by the way, over half a trillion  was appropriated. In other words, this body chose to spend over half a  trillion dollars--that used to be a lot of money--of taxpayers' money  without people being here to weigh in, to vote, to have amendments, or  to have debate. And that legislation had to be done because it had to  do with helping small businesses in particular but also healthcare  providers around the country and getting more testing, which was very  important. But wouldn't it have been good had Congress been able to  weigh in? But we couldn't. Why? We don't have the ability to remotely  vote, much less engage in debate or much less have hearings. 

  I think we should be able to do that. I think we should be able to  meet and discuss things even when we can't physically be here in the  Capitol.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT