Thousand Talents Plan


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, last week I came to the floor of the  Senate to talk about how the tragic spread of the coronavirus around  the world underscored the need for us to focus on the persistent  challenge of China not playing by the rules. 

  In the case of coronavirus, that was about China not telling the  World Health Organization, not telling other countries, and not telling  their own people what was happening in terms of the coronavirus and not  taking steps to stop international travel early on. That wasn't playing  by the WHO rules--the World Health Organization rules--and the result  has been devastation. It has meant the spread of the virus. So much of  that devastation we  have seen around the globe, in my view, could have been avoided had  they played by the rules. 

  Unfortunately, not playing by the rules applies to China in many  other areas too. We have talked a lot about trade on the floor of the  Senate, to be sure that there is a level playing field between China  and the United States and making sure they play by the international  trading rules. But here is another one where China and the Chinese  Communist Party have not played by the rules, and that is with regard  to obtaining our intellectual property, our innovation, and our  research. 

  In the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which I chair, we  found not playing by the rules to be the case when we conducted a  bipartisan, yearlong investigation into how China has used so-called  talent recruitment programs--most notably its Thousand Talents Plan--to  steal U.S. taxpayer-funded research to help fuel the rise to both the  Chinese military and the Chinese economy over the past 20 years. It has  been going on for two decades. 

  You might ask, how has this happened? How could this be possible?  This is how it happens. Every year, Federal grant-making agencies, like  the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Energy and their  National Labs, the National Science Foundation, and others, give out  more than $150 billion in U.S. taxpayer funds for research. That is  quite a bit of money. 

  For the most part, this system works well. American taxpayers send  the money to these Federal grant-making agencies here in Washington,  which then give it out to the best researchers and the best research  labs in the country. It has resulted in important new breakthroughs in  science, technology, healthcare, energy, military equipment, and more. 

  The NSF helped fund the creation of the internet. The NIH has funded  research into very successful and innovative treatments for cancer and  other diseases. So there is a lot of good stuff coming out of these  research dollars. It has made America really the leader in the world on  innovation and new ideas. 

  For the most part, this Federal research funding has enjoyed broad  bipartisan support here in the Congress. But guess what. It has also  attracted interest from researchers around the world who want the  chance to take a part in this cutting-edge research. That is good, too,  as long as they play by the rules. 

  What we have learned and we proved through our report is that this  system is very vulnerable to theft by other countries. That is exactly  what has happened in the case of China. 

  China has made no secret that its goal is to surpass the United  States as the world leader in scientific research. They have seen an  opportunity to get ahead by exploiting this system of taxpayer-funded  grants and the open and collaborative research enterprise that we have  in this country. They have taken advantage of that. 

  Specifically, the Chinese Government has systematically targeted the  most promising U.S. researchers. So they find out somebody is doing  some research on something interesting to them, and they systematically  target that person. They have been paying these grant recipients to  take their research--remember, research paid for by U.S. taxpayer  dollars--and apply what they have learned here in labs over in China at  Chinese universities affiliated with the Chinese Communist Party. 

  The research they are taking over to China isn't just going toward  academic purposes. That wouldn't be right, either, because our taxpayer  dollars are going in to fund this research. They are then leapfrogging  us by getting that research. But it is not just for academic purposes.  Often, the research ends up going directly into things like advancing  China's military, which has made great strides in the last two decades,  advancing its technological growth, its economy, its manufacturing  processes, and so on. 

  A State Department witness at one of our Senate hearings on our  report said this: ``The Chinese Communist Party has declared the  Chinese university system to be on the front line of military-civilian  fusion efforts for technology acquisition.'' So there is a clear link  here between the research going to these Chinese university labs and  that same research being used to allow China to effectively leapfrog us  in terms of their military improvements and their economic growth. 

  Part of the reason it has gone on so long, frankly, is because we  have been asleep at the switch. We haven't been focused on this. We do  have an open, collaborative research system in this country, and we  haven't been effective at cracking down on this intellectual property  theft. That is starting to change, and I am appreciative of that. 

  It started to change, frankly, in the wake of our subcommittee  investigation. The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations hearings  also helped. Our report also helped. During one of our hearings, the  FBI actually acknowledged what has been happening. This is what the FBI  said: ``With our present-day knowledge of the threat from Chinese  talent plans, we wish we had taken more rapid and comprehensive action  in the past, and the time to make up for that is now.'' I appreciate  the candor. I appreciate the fact that the FBI was willing to say: Now  that we have learned all of this, we should have been acting on this a  long time ago. We are going to do it now and make up for lost time.  

  They have been much more aggressive. Since our hearing and detailed  report last November, we have seen a number of high-profile arrests of  academics in this country who have consistently hidden their  participation in China's Thousand Talents program and have taken  research over to China. 

  You may remember hearing about this issue earlier this week when a  Harvard professor named Dr. Charles Lieber, who was the chair of  Harvard University's chemistry department, was accused of secretly  taking money from China and sharing his U.S. taxpayer-funded research  with the Chinese Government. It was really a shocking example of this. 

  But he is not the only case. In March, we received news of another  arrest of a professor who used to work at West Virginia University who  participated in Thousand Talents. In this case, the Justice Department  found that he had convinced his employer--a U.S. public university--to  give him paid parental leave funded by American taxpayers while he went  to China to work at a university there to continue his work on  specializing molecular reactions used in coal conversion technologies.  This is from West Virginia University. 

  These two cases would be bad enough on their own, but since the start  of this month, we have actually had three more cases announced by the  Department of Justice and the FBI in relation to this Thousand Talents  program. I commend the DOJ and the FBI for their work to continue to  crack down on this program and to go after these problems, but they  need better tools to do it. 

  About 2 weeks ago, a former Emory University professor pled guilty to  falsifying his tax returns to conceal his work for the Chinese  Government. The professor worked simultaneously and secretly for 6  years for both Emory University and overseas for Chinese universities  affiliated with the Communist Party of China, conducting similar  research projects at both institutions. Despite this clear conflict of  interest, he failed to report any of his at least $500,000 in foreign  income on his Federal tax returns. 

  That very same day, a professor at the University of Arkansas was  arrested on charges of wire fraud for allegedly failing to disclose his  ties to the Chinese Government, despite being required to do so as a  grant recipient of money from NASA--NASA. 

  Just this past week, we found out that this problem had reached my  home State of Ohio when the Department of Justice announced the arrest  of a researcher previously affiliated with the world-renowned Cleveland  Clinic. This researcher had received more than $3.6 million in  taxpayer-funded grants from the National Institutions of Health--again,  taxpayer dollars. To secure that grant, he is accused of lying to hide  the fact that he was given a deanship at the university in Wuhan,  China. 

  He is also accused of lying about his Chinese Government-funded  research directly overlapping with his NIH-funded research. According  to the criminal complaint, he received $3 million in funding from China  to run a shadow lab in Wuhan to replicate his Cleveland Clinic  research, along with free travel and free lodging funded by the Chinese  Government. It says he even admitted  that he hand-carried samples of biological material from Cleveland, OH,  to Wuhan. Those samples are still stored, by the way, in China. 

  It also states that he did not disclose that one of his Chinese  grants required that he be in Wuhan for 10 months of the year at the  same time he was also employed full time at the Cleveland Clinic,  again, working on NIH-funded research. 

  I commend the Cleveland Clinic for working with the FBI and the U.S.  Attorney's Office to ensure that we were able to stop this from  happening. 

  As a Thousand Talents member, the criminal complaint also alleges  that this individual recruited around 40 to 50 other U.S.-based  researchers for his Chinese university by hosting events at Harvard and  other schools in the United States. 

  This is a big deal, and it needs to stop. I commend the Assistant  Attorney General for National Security, John Demers, for his work on  this and other cases and also U.S. Attorney Justin Herdman of the  Northern District of Ohio, FBI Special Agent in Charge Eric Smith, and  all the members of their team for their work on this Cleveland Clinic  case. 

  Again, these cases are all positive steps in the right direction, but  the problem, as you might notice, is that none of these criminal  charges and arrests were actually based on participating in a Thousand  Talents program or even hiding that from the U.S. Government research  institutions or universities. The criminal charges and arrests were all  for other crimes, like perjury, wire fraud, and tax evasion. That is  because, amazingly, failing to disclose on a grant application to  receive U.S.-taxpayer funds that you are receiving compensation--clear  conflict of interest--from a foreign government and giving them your  research is not currently a crime. That needs to change. 

  One example: The Emory University professor, according to the law,  only committed tax fraud, while the Arkansas professor only committed  wire fraud. The fact that these are technically only financial crimes  show that we are still just nibbling around the edges of this problem.  It is time for us to get at the underlying flaw in our research  enterprise of talent programs enticing researchers here in the United  States to steal for other countries. We are going to need targeted  legislation that will take direct action against this practice, and  that is exactly what we have done. 

  Along with a group of colleagues, including Democrat Tom Carper, the  ranking member of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, we are  introducing the Safeguarding American Innovation Act, which is going to  build on the recommendations made in our PSI report and address some of  these root causes of the ongoing IP theft that is currently going on. 

  First and foremost, our bill is going to help the Department of  Justice go after the Thousand Talents participants by allowing DOJ to  hold Federal grant recipients accountable for failing to disclose their  foreign ties on Federal grant applications. This isn't just about more  arrests, either. We should all agree that transparency and honesty in  grant applications are critical to the integrity of U.S. research, and  this provision will help to promote those principles. 

  Our bill makes other important changes, as well, based on the  recommendations in our report. It requires the Office of Management and  Budget, or OMB, to streamline and coordinate grant-making between these  Federal agencies, so there is needed accountability and transparency  when it comes to tracking the billions of dollars of taxpayer funds in  grant money that is being distributed. 

  We have worked closely with NSF, NIH, Department of Energy, and  others on this important piece of legislation. They agree it is  important. It allows the State Department to deny visas to foreign  researchers who are seeking to access sensitive U.S. research when  there is a threat to our economic or our national security. This may  surprise you, but they can't do that now. Career Foreign Service  officers and employees of the State Department have begged us for that  authority. 

  Our bill also requires research institutions to have safeguards in  place to prohibit unauthorized access to sensitive research because we  found that to be a serious problem. And our bill ensures transparency  by requiring universities to report any foreign gift of $50,000 or  more, and it empowers the Department of Education to fine universities  that repeatedly fail to disclose these gifts. 

  Right now, our No. 1 priority is and should be solving the  coronavirus crisis. I get that. By the way, the FBI sent a notice  around last week to universities and research institutions saying:  Watch out because there are actually Chinese hackers trying to get your  research on coronavirus. It just happened last week. 

  I have to tell you that in the context of this crisis, we have to  reevaluate how we do business with China. We have to look at this with  fresh eyes and realize that in many areas China has not been playing by  the same set of rules as the rest of the world. 

  We talked about that earlier, with regard to trade and with regard to  reporting on the coronavirus. I think in a fair and straightforward  manner, we have to lead in insisting that there be a level playing  field, whether it is the WHO or whether it is transparency with  coronavirus or trade policy or how research is acquired. 

  My hope is that our PSI report and the legislation we are introducing  will let us reset the way we conduct our research. Our goal should be  to continue to reward those who come to our shores and discover new  breakthroughs in science and technology. We want that. We are very  proud of the fact that we are the most innovative country in the world  and we are known for our research enterprise. We want to continue that,  but we want to do it in a smart way. We want to be sure that we are  keeping China and other nations and competitors from stealing that  research for its own purposes. I know we can achieve that balance. Our  legislation does that. 

  I look forward to getting support from both sides of the aisle  because this is a problem we should all be concerned about. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT