Wasteful Spending


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am here to join my colleagues in  speaking on the floor in advance of government Sunshine Week, but  before I do that, let me commend my colleague from Oklahoma for his  comments about the need for more transparency in government and  particularly our grantmaking process. 

  We have made some progress on that--most recently, the DATA Act. His  predecessor in Congress, Tom Coburn, worked on this issue, and we came  up with legislation when I was on the other side of Pennsylvania Avenue  at the Office of Management and Budget to put all grants and contracts  online, which was a start. But the DATA Act takes that to the next  level to make sure there is uniformity in government. 

  We still have difficulty with some agencies getting information out  there, but he is absolutely right. It would make a difference because  if people know how the money is being spent, it is much more likely to  be spent wisely, all the way down to the ZIP Code in terms of where  grants are going and what kind of Federal taxpayer dollars are being  spent in our communities and whether it is being spent well. 

  Government shutdowns, of course--I couldn't agree more with my  colleague--have not worked to help make our government more  efficient. In fact, we always spend more after the fact.  

  Think about it. People were furloughed, and, then, when they went  back to work, they got backpay. Well, it would have been much better  had they been there to provide the services to the taxpayers. 

  You also just have a lot of dislocation that is unfair and people who  have to go to work who are essential employees. Think of our TSA  employees--for those of you who travel in airports--not getting paid. A  lot of them had car payments or house payments they couldn't make  during the last government shutdown. It is just unfair. So we have to  get at that. 

  We have legislation that actually two-thirds of the Members of this  side of the aisle have supported. Yet we have not been able to make  that bipartisan. So I appreciate the fact that my colleague from  Oklahoma has a bipartisan approach to that. We have tried for four or  five Congresses now to pass legislation that simply says that at the  end of the fiscal year, if you haven't completed all the bills, then  the government continues to operate, but 1 percent of spending is cut  every 120 days, and every 90 days thereafter to give the Appropriations  Committees here the incentive to get to work and to get the budget  bills done. That, I think, would work. 

  It used to be a bipartisan approach. It is not now. So I am  interested in looking at other options, including what the Senator from  Oklahoma was talking about in terms of providing more pressure on us  here to get our work done because these shutdowns clearly haven't  worked to help make the government more efficient. They have just had  the opposite impact.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT