Censured but Not Silenced


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695806/censured-but-not-silenced


Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr.  Green) for yielding to me.

Today the Republican House majority brought to the floor a resolution  honoring the life and legacy of Charlie Kirk.

Charlie Kirk's assassination was a horrific and vile attack. It was  an incident of political violence, and condemning the depravity of  Kirk's brutal murder is a straightforward matter. It is one that is  especially important to help stabilize an increasingly unsafe and  volatile political environment where everyday people feel more at risk.

We can deeply disagree and come together as a country to denounce the  horror of this killing, and it is not a license for the abuse of power  and whitewashing of American history.

Today's resolution only underscores the majority's recklessness by  choosing to offer this condemnation and honoring on a purely partisan  basis, instead of uniting Congress in this tragedy with one of the many  bipartisan options to condemn political violence in Kirk's murder as we  did with the late Melissa Hortman. Instead, the majority proceeded with  a resolution that brings great pain to the millions of Americans who  endured segregation, Jim Crow, and the legacy of bigotry today.

We should be clear about who Charlie Kirk was. He was a man who  believed that the Civil Rights Act that granted Black Americans the  right to vote was a mistake, who after the violent attack on Paul  Pelosi claimed that ``some amazing patriot'' should bail out his brutal  assailant, and accused Jews of controlling ``not just the colleges, it  is the nonprofits, it is the movies, it is Hollywood, it is all of  it.''

His rhetoric and beliefs were ignorant, uneducated, and sought to  disenfranchise millions of Americans, far from the ``working tirelessly  to promote unity'' asserted by the majority in this resolution.

It is equally important that Congress does unite to reject the  government's attempt to weaponize this moment into an all-out assault  on free speech across the country all in the name of Charlie Kirk.

President Trump and the FCC are now cynically threatening to shut  down ABC and any outlets that gives airtime to the administration's  political critics.

This is a disgusting attack on the American people and the very First  Amendment rights that define us as a country. It is also the ABC  corporation's responsibility to refuse to embolden and participate in  this corruption and escalation of censorship.

We continue to pray for Mr. Kirk's family and loved ones in the wake  of this terrible act. I am thinking especially of his children and his  wife whose grief cannot be measured.