Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693223/providing-for-consideration-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ. Mr. Speaker, President Trump issued some  statements throughout this process saying, urging, and insisting that  this bill does not cut Medicaid.

He has also said some things. He says he doesn't think I am too much  of a smart person. I will tell you one thing. It doesn't take a smart  person to know if you are being lied to.

President Trump, you are either being lied to or you are lying to the  American people because this bill represents, in the text of this bill,  the largest and greatest loss of healthcare in American history.

Seventeen million Americans will lose their healthcare with this  bill, not undocumented people, not the disgusting term ``illegal,'' but  17 million Americans will have their healthcare cut from this bill.

On this point of tax on tips, as one of the only people in this body  who has lived off of tips, I want to tell you a little bit about the  scam of that text, a little bit of the fine print there.

The cap on that is $25,000, while you are jacking up taxes on people  who make less than $50,000 across the United States, while taking away  their SNAP, while taking away their Medicaid, and while kicking them  off of the ACA and their healthcare extensions.

If you are at home and living off tips, you do the math. Is that  worth it to you? Losing all your healthcare, not being able to feed  your babies, and not being able to put a diaper on their bottom in  exchange for what?

This bill is a deal with the devil. It explodes our national debt. It  militarizes our entire economy. It strips away healthcare and basic  dignity from the American people. For what? To give Elon Musk a tax  break, and billionaires, the greedy, taking our Nation.

We cannot stand for it, and we will not support it. You should be  ashamed.