Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698844/crime-victims-fund-stabilization-act-of-2025


Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 909, the  Crime Victims Fund Stabilization Act. I thank Congresswoman Ann Wagner  for her leadership on this legislation because it reflects a principle  this body has long shared: When the justice system holds wrongdoers  accountable, those resources should help rebuild the lives of the  innocent victims of the wrongdoers.

Congress created the Crime Victims Fund through the Victims of Crime  Act  of 1984 to support victims of violent crimes through counseling,  advocacy, and recovery services.

Importantly, this fund is financed by fines and penalties paid for by  those convicted of Federal crimes. It is not taxpayer dollars. That  structure reflects that simple, but powerful, idea that accountability  should serve justice.

Today, however, that promise is under strain. According to the Office  for Victims of Crime, the Crime Victims Fund ended fiscal year 2024  with a balance of just $1.2 billion, a 90 percent decline since 2017.  As a result, victim assistance programs nationwide face a $600 million  funding shortfall. For organizations serving survivors of domestic  violence, child abuse, and sexual assault, including programs across  northeast Texas, where I represent, this means fewer services and, in  some cases, the risk of shutting the doors of organizations who are  helping to bring restoration and healing to victims and families.

H.R. 909 reflects a straightforward principle: The justice system can  both punish lawbreakers and support victims. There are no new taxes, no  new spending, and no cost to the taxpayer, only a responsible use of  fines collected in judicial proceedings to ensure victims are on a  pathway to healing. The bill temporarily redirects unobligated funds  collected under the False Claims Act into the Crime Victims Fund  through 2029. Over the past 2 years alone, False Claims Act settlements  have totaled nearly $5 billion, and after defrauded agencies and  whistleblowers are made whole, remaining funds currently sit unused.

This legislation is bipartisan because the need is bipartisan.  Victims of crime are not defined by geography or by party, and neither  should our response. H.R. 909 provides stability, preserves the  original intent of the Crime Victims Fund, and ensures that those  harmed by crime continue to receive the support they deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to strongly support this  commonsense legislation.

I, again, thank Representative Wagner for her years of leadership and  dedicated work to make this a reality and for all those on both sides  of the aisle who are ardently supporting this bill.