No Dollars to Uyghur Forced Labor Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690655/no-dollars-to-uyghur-forced-labor-act


Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the No  Dollars to Uyghur Forced Labor Act.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this critical  legislation that would prohibit United States State Department  contracts with companies tied to forced labor in the Xinjiang region of  China.

Our bill would ensure that U.S. funds are not used to finance  projects in partnership with companies or organizations that import  products mined or manufactured in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region  of the People's Republic of China.

Many basic goods that we consider to be part of our everyday lives as  Americans are produced in Xinjiang, including textiles, bricks, cotton,  and polysilicon.

As home to the majority of China's cotton, coal, and natural gas  reserves, and representing one-sixth of China's land mass, the Xinjiang  region is central to China's economy.

It is considered to be the core hub for China's Belt and Road  Initiative, which is China's primary tool to exert economic influence  across the globe.

China's economy relies in large part on Xinjiang, yet behind its  industries lie a horrifying reality: mass detention, forced labor, and  brutal oppression of the people who live there.

The CCP is oppressing the Uyghur people and other ethnic minorities  by detaining them in what they call reeducation centers for forced  labor in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region of China.

Slavery in any form is morally repugnant. America, known on the  international stage as a beacon of freedom and liberty, must not be  complicit in the Chinese Communist Party's genocide and oppression of  the Uyghur people.

The United States must push back on China not only in our words but  through our actions. Failing to do so enables the CCP to grow in  strength and exert its malign influence over the world. It is past time  we enforce accountability against our greatest adversary. The U.S. must  act decisively against the companies that profit from these abuses and  take a firm stand against totalitarian regimes.

The CCP asserts its control over the Uyghur people through threats,  intimidation, confinement, and physical and emotional abuse. Failing to  confront China empowers gross human rights abuses and allows for the  spread of such atrocities to be determined by the CCP.

Our legislation will ensure that our State Department plays no part  in the forced slave labor of the Uyghur people. America must continue  to lead with strength and morality on the world stage and refuse to  fund these brutal tactics and cruelty.

Passing this critical legislation is the first step. I urge my  colleagues to vote ``yes.''