Catalina Foothills High School Boys' Swim Team Wins D2 State Championship


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699071/catalina-foothills-high-school-boys-swim-team-wins-d2-state-championship


Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Catalina  Foothills High School boys' swim team for winning the D2 State  championship.

The Falcons finished with a total score of 386, with senior Connor  Daggett winning gold.

The team finished first in three races: the 200-meter medley, with  Nicholas Dinsmore, Mathew Murray, Ariston Elsesser, and Connor Daggett  finishing with a time of 1:39.891; the 50-meter freestyle with Connor  Daggett finishing with a time of 21:42; and the 200-meter freestyle  relay, with Nicholas Dinsmore, Aidan Kastner, Ariston Elsesser, and  Connor Daggett finishing with a time of 1:30.831.

In addition to finishing first in multiple races, the Falcons also  placed in the top five for several others.

To Coach Ed Walter, the whole team, and everyone who made this win  possible: Congratulations. Their hard work has made their school and  our community extremely proud.

Falcons, enjoy your victory. You earned it. Congratulations again.           Tanque Verde Boys' Swim Team Wins D3 State Championship

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Tanque  Verde High School boys' swim team for winning the D3 State  championship.

The Hawks finished with a total score of 257, placing first in the  200-meter freestyle relay and in the top five for multiple other  events, including the 200-meter medley relay and 400 freestyle relay.

The team's time of 1:31.81 on the 200-meter freestyle won them first  place, with a team made up of Jackson Eftekhar, Grayson The, Wade  Olsson, and Zachary Duerkop.

To Coach Porter Olstad, the whole team, and everyone who made this  win possible: Congratulations. Their hard work has made their school  and our community extremely proud.

Hawks, enjoy your victory. You have earned it. Here is to another  successful season and many, many more.

Cienega High School's Marching Band Wins Championship Title

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Cienega High  School's marching band on winning the Arizona Marching Band Southern  Regional Championship.

The Bobcats broke the program's record for the highest score in a  regular season show. They also brought home the highest score in music  performance, visual performance, general effect, and percussion  performance.

I also congratulate them on coming in as State silver medalists at  the Arizona Marching Band Association's State championship. Through the  long hours of hard work and dedication, the Bobcats achieved this  outstanding accomplishment.

To Director Reed Bailey, each member of the band, and all parents and  staff who made this win possible: Congratulations. They have made their  school and our community very proud.

Bobcats, enjoy this victory. You earned it. Congratulations on yet  another successful season.