Congratulating Salpointe Catholic High School's Girls' Flag Football Team


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697431/congratulating-salpointe-catholic-high-schools-girls-flag-football-team


Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Salpointe  Catholic High School's girls' flag football team for winning the 4A  State championship in its first season.

On November 22, the Lancers took home the State title in a fierce  match against Mesa Eastmark. Even a 2-hour weather delay couldn't stop  the Lancers from taking down the number two ranked Eastmark 17-0,  winning them the 4A title in the first year of the girls' flag football  program. In an impressive season, they finished 16-1.

Freshman quarterback Isla Collins, who is a youth national team  player for the United States, led her team with two rushing touchdowns,  scoring her first at the end of the first quarter and adding her second  touchdown in the middle of the fourth quarter. Additionally, junior  Andie Tkalcevic added a 21-yard field goal, extending the Lancers'  lead.

To Coach Barrie Pedersen, the entire team, and everyone who played a  part in this successful first season, I congratulate you. There are  undoubtedly many, many more to come ahead. They have made their school  and our community incredibly proud.

Lancers, enjoy this victory. You earned it. Congratulations once  again.           Congratulating Ironwood Ridge Girls' Cross Country Team

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Ironwood  Ridge girls' cross country team for winning the 2025 Division 2 State  title. This is the fourth time that the Nighthawks have taken home a  State championship title.

Senior Sorella Natale was the D-2 runner up, with a finishing time of  19:23.4, securing the Nighthawks' win. Additionally, sophomore Sophia  Simmons finished in 9th place, with a time of 20:05.5. Sophomore Kylie  Lederhos finished in 10th place, with a time of 20:08.9.

Congratulations to coaches Michael Smith and Bob Jones, the whole  team, and everyone who made this win possible. They have made their  school and our community very, very proud.

Nighthawks, enjoy this victory. You have earned it.

Congratulating Salpointe Catholic High School Girls' Volleyball Team

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Salpointe  Catholic High School's girls' volleyball team for winning the 4A State  championship for the first time in 5 years.

The number one ranked Lancers took home the 4A conference State title  against the number three ranked American Leadership Academy-Queen  Creek, with a score of 3-1. After a struggle to maintain the lead, they  prevailed in the end, including an impressive 6-0 run in the fourth  set.

Senior Kate Mobley earned the tournament's MVP title, with a powerful  performance of 11 kills, 22 digs, 25 receptions, and 5 solo blocks.

On their way to the top, the team took down the number 16 Sahuarita,  as well as other teams around the region and across the State.

This thrilling victory marks Salpointe's fourth State championship  win and caps off an amazing season in which Salpointe Catholic went 24- 2 overall.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Coach Keith Rubio, the team, and everyone  who played a part in this successful season. There are undoubtedly many  more wins ahead. They have made their school and community incredibly  proud. The Lancers should enjoy this victory. Once again, they have  earned it, and I congratulate them.                          Congratulating NJROTC Cadets

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 28  NJROTC cadets from Cienega High School, Andrada High School, Empire  High School, and Mica Mountain High School who competed at the Area 20  Stars and Stripes field meet in El Paso, Texas, under the leadership of  Commander Micah Brewer.

These cadets did an amazing job and brought home a number of  impressive awards. They placed number one overall, as well, for  personal inspection, physical fitness team, armed drill team  regulation, and unarmed drill team exhibition. They placed second for  unarmed drill team regulation and color guard. They placed third for  academic team and armed drill team exhibition.

Additionally, Madelyn Michael won the individual award for most sit- ups for girls, completing a total of 178.

Mr. Speaker, to these 28 cadets and all who took part in this special  competition, I congratulate them. They have worked hard and made their  schools and our community extremely proud. I congratulate them once  again on all their wins. They are all well-earned.