Congratulating Morenci High School Boys' Wrestling Team


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700411/congratulating-morenci-high-school-boys-wrestling-team


Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Morenci  High School boys' wrestling team on winning the Division IV wrestling  title for the 2025-2026 season.

The Morenci Wildcats totaled 214.5 points to win the Division IV  title and were led by three teammates who each placed first overall in  their weight classes.

Jacob Goodwin won the 159-pound championship with a total of four  victories, with a total of three pins, as well.

Emerson Montes won the 152-pound title and secured a major decision  in the championship match.

Caden Woodall won the 167-pound championship, with two pins during  his run for that championship.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Coach Casey Woodall, the whole team, and  everyone who made this win possible. Their hard work has made their  school and community very proud. The Wildcats should enjoy this  victory. They earned it. Here is to another successful season and many  more to come.      Sahuarita High School Boys' Wrestling Win Division III State Title

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  Sahuarita High School Boys' Wrestling Team on winning the Division III  wrestling title for the fifth consecutive season.

The Mustangs are only the fifth program in Arizona Interscholastic  Association history to reach this milestone. The team won the State  title with a total of 239 points, 92 points ahead of the runners-up.

In addition, the Mustangs had five team members who took first place  in their individual weight classes. Sophomore Marcus Killgore and  senior Sebastian Serrano each won their individual weight class  championship, earning both of them their second straight State titles.  Additionally, senior James Buck and juniors Nathaniel Gallardo and  Sergio Macias also won the title in their individual weight classes.

This win also marks the seventh consecutive year that the Mustangs  have finished as State champions or as runner-up.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Coach Paul Vasquez, the whole team, and  everyone who made this win possible. Their hard work has made their  school and community very proud. The Mustangs should enjoy their  victory. They have earned this one. Here is to another successful  season and many more to come.