Jc Flag Football Championship


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691925/jc-flag-football-championship


Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with the unique opportunity  to say congratulations to the fifth and sixth grade Team Army flag  football team for winning the Northwest Tucson Under the Lights spring  championship, a team that I had the pleasure and the privilege of  coaching.

The spring season was our third undefeated season in a row and the  second championship in the last three seasons. With this spring season  championship, we have qualified to compete in the national tournament  in Florida this July.

I absolutely love coaching, and I don't think there is anything  better than that. I have been coaching most of these boys since they  were in second grade, and it has been amazing seeing them grow up,  compete together, and support each other like teammates always should.

My players--Kenny Ciscomani, Augie Axen, Mateo Brandt, Cooper  Brayant, Braeydn Darby, Isaiah Davis, Bas Guthrie, Preston Harshberger,  Warrick Mendoza, Dominic Olivito, and Cor Pinneo--throughout the entire  year, and this season's playoffs in particular, played with grit,  determination, and passion. In spite of being down by several  possessions at different points, they kept their composure and executed  the game plan perfectly against tough opposition. I congratulate the  boys. They earned this victory. I am so proud to display the trophy  right here in my office in Washington, D.C.

I thank the coaches who often had to take over due to my hectic  schedule. We would not be here without them.

I thank the families and fans who came to cheer us on for being with  us throughout it all. They were truly an indispensable part of our  remarkable season.

The team should enjoy this championship. They earned it.

Now, on to nationals representing Arizona. Let's go get it.                 Congratulating Jane Strain on Her Retirement

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate my dear  friend and Army veteran Jane Strain on a well-deserved retirement as a  trustee of Cochise College's governing board after an incredible 27  years.

Since even before being elected, I have been lucky to have Jane as a  resource, and I have come to deeply respect her role as a community  leader, a tireless advocate for our veterans, and a devoted volunteer.

A fighter and leader by example, Jane's work on behalf of our  veterans is well known across Arizona, which is why I jumped at the  opportunity to ask her to be a part of my veteran advisory council.

Jane's powerful voice, grounded by personal experience and genuine  desire to help those who served, has been an invaluable resource for me  and has greatly informed my efforts working to support the nearly  80,000 veterans in my district that they call home.

Jane's exceptional record reaches beyond our veterans. It also  focuses on education and empowering our youth to reach their potential.

As a trustee of Cochise College's governing board, Jane has been  instrumental in shaping Cochise College into the innovative institution  it is today.

While Jane's retirement marks the end of an extraordinary chapter, I  have no doubt that she will continue to do amazing work and will enjoy  this new chapter being closer to her children and grandchildren.

On behalf of a grateful community, I thank Jane so much for her  service. I look forward to hearing about Jane's next adventure and all  the amazing things she will still be doing and be able to achieve.             Congratulating Salpointe Men's Baseball Championship

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to say congratulations to  the Salpointe men's baseball team for their remarkable achievement in  winning the 4A State championship.

In a thrilling match, they defeated Flagstaff by a score of 8 runs to  0, truly an incredible performance by all the players.

This victory earned Head Coach Danny Preble his second State  championship since 2017.

I thank and congratulate Coach Preble, his staff, the players,  parents, fans, and everyone who played a part in this special season.  They made their school and community incredibly proud.

Once again, I congratulate them. Go Lancers. This is their victory.  They earned it, so enjoy.