Providing for Consideration of H.R. Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Affordable Housing Over Mandating Efficiency Standards Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698633/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-saving-homeowners-from-overregulation-with-exceptional-rinsing-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-affordable-housing-over-mandating-efficiency-standards-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this  bipartisan conference agreement covering the Commerce, Justice, and  Science; Energy and Water; and the Interior and Environment  appropriations bills.

This package shows that when Congress works together, we can deliver  full-year funding that meets the needs of our communities. This package  makes smart, responsible investments in public safety, energy  reliability, our public lands and, for those of us in the West, water  conservation and infrastructure.

As the only member of the Arizona delegation in both the Senate and  the House serving on the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to  make sure this bill delivers real results back home in Arizona's Sixth  Congressional District. That includes specific Community Project  Funding requests developed directly with local leaders who know their  communities best and targeted at the issues that matter to our  communities the most.

This bill supports, for example, community safety vehicle fleet  modernization so that Tucson's first responders have reliable vehicles  when every second counts in their line of work. It also includes  funding for the Sahuarita Police Department radio replacement, so  officers can communicate clearly and safely in the field.

As the Colorado River continues to face a worsening drought, water  security is more important than ever. This package helps fund water  reclamation facility upgrades in Tombstone that will improve efficiency  and replace aging infrastructure.

It supports the multi-municipality sewer treatment project that  modernizes systems and protects public health across multiple  communities in Graham County.

It also invests in source water system improvements at Marana  Regional Airport and the Pioneer Well PFAS Treatment Project to help  ensure safe and reliable water for families and businesses. These are  practical, locally requested projects that are transparent,  accountable, and focused on results.

Mr. Speaker, this conference agreement reflects a responsible use of  taxpayer dollars while strengthening public safety, water security, and  critical infrastructure. I am proud of the work we have accomplished,  and I strongly urge my colleagues to support this package.