Sulphur Springs Valley Electric Cooperative Wins Nreca


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701320/sulphur-springs-valley-electric-cooperative-wins-nreca


Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Sulphur  Springs Valley Electric Cooperative in southern Arizona for receiving  the 2026 Electric Cooperative Purpose Award from the National Rural  Electric Cooperative Association.

Electric cooperatives are unique. They are owned by the people they  serve. Every customer is a member-owner. Every member has a voice.  Decisions are made locally by neighbors who understand their  communities' economic realities. This creates accountability,  transparency, and a relentless focus on safety, reliability, and  affordability.

In 2022, when global fuel prices surged, families and small  businesses across Cochise County felt the impact. Energy costs rose  sharply, pressuring household and business budgets. SSVEC's board and  leadership team needed to protect the very members who own the  cooperative while maintaining long-term stability, and that is exactly  what they did.

They responded with ingenuity and resolve, launching direct  communication with members, working with its cooperative partner AEPCO  to establish a fuel hedging program, and directing 100 percent of its  annual operating margin to buy down more than $8 million in member fuel  bank debt. That action delivered immediate bill relief.

Behind the decision were employees who stayed focused on service to  their members during a period of uncertainty. Now, SSVEC is stronger  and better positioned to manage future volatility. Families and  businesses in southern Arizona saw how local ownership translates into  local solutions.

I congratulate the board of directors, the employees, and the member- owners of Sulphur Springs Valley Electric Cooperative. I thank them for  their commitment to protecting affordability and serving rural Arizona.           Salpointe High School Girls' Soccer Wins 4A State Title

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the  Salpointe High School girls' soccer team on winning the 2026 4A State  Championship title.

The Lady Lancers were led by Coach Jessica Rushton, a Tucson native  who graduated from Salpointe in 2008. Rushton continues her coaching  career at Salpointe following time spent at Pusch Ridge Christian  Academy.

Despite the loss of their beloved and longtime coach, Kelly Pierce,  only a few months before the start of the season, the team gave all  they had under the leadership of Coach Rushton and earned yet another  State championship title.

After an intense game, Salpointe defeated Mesa High School with a  score of 5-4. Senior keeper Ani Jimenez was named the 4A championship  MVP after an amazing save that sealed the Lancers' victory.

I congratulate Coach Rushton, the whole team, and everyone who made  this win possible. Their hard work has made their school and our entire  community very proud.

The Lancers should enjoy their victory. They have earned it. Here is  to another successful season and to many, many more to come.    Three Members of Cienega High School Wrestling Win State Championship

Mr. CISCOMANI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Cienega  High School wrestling team and its three 2026 State champions.

For the first time in Cienega history, the Bobcats have three State  wrestling champions.

Daesiah Varner became Cienega's first-ever three-time State champion.  Varner made history by becoming the first wrestler in the school's  program to finish an entire season undefeated, going 36-0 and finishing  her run with the State championship.

The other two champions, AJ Berryhill and Luke Ferguson, beat the  record for the most wins in a season with a total of 50.

This championship caps off an amazing season of growth and commitment  for the entire team, where each student worked day in and day out to  improve their skills and strength.

I congratulate Coach Cole Hickey, the whole team, and everyone who  made this win possible. Their hard work has made their school and our  entire community very proud.

The bobcats should enjoy their victory. They have earned it. Here is  to another successful season and to many, many more.