-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698541/9999


You know, January 6 was my first day on the job here in the U.S.  Senate. Come to think of it, that was the first day of the year and the  start of a huge disaster the next 4 years. I sat right over there.  Again, it was my first time on the Senate floor.

One of the first things I heard from my Democratic colleagues, after  we returned to the floor that same night, after being taken and hidden  out for a few hours, was that this was the worst disaster and was even  worse than Pearl Harbor. By the way, that was a real attack that killed  2,403 Americans.

And I thought at that time: Are you kidding me? What are we talking  about here?

Then almost immediately afterwards, those same Democrats that said  this about Pearl Harbor, they came after all of us Republicans and said  this January 6 attack was racist. And, you know, I didn't understand  that--being the first day here, I went, Wait a minute. I mean, I  thought we are all in this together. They know dang well this wasn't a  racist attack, but it was just something that they wanted to use, but  they never miss an opportunity to paint somebody a racist, you know,  when it comes to the Democrats.

So January 6 had nothing to do with racism. Let's be clear what  happened that day. Democrats and the Deep State hate Donald Trump so  much that they helped orchestrate a coup against our government. It has  been looked at, vilified; and the information that we found today is  just amazing. And it first started with the tampering of the 2020  Presidential election results to oust President Trump and to install a  different type of government. As a result, great American patriots  gathered in Washington to peacefully--peacefully--protest the illegal  tampering of the election of 2020.

When the leader of the Democratic Party at that time, Nancy Pelosi,  and the Deep State learned of Trump supporters coming to Washington,  DC--which, by the way, was hundreds of thousands of people--they  started and got an idea. Now, again, this has all been proven. They  decided to infiltrate the crowd with antifa and intelligence community  members who would stir up trouble. The FBI has confirmed that there  were 274 FBI agents in plain clothes in the Capitol here that day.

Then they set up Capitol Police by failing and refusing President  Trump's offer to bring in National Guard as backup. They turned it  down.

I interact with Capitol Hill police here every day. They are brave  men and women who work tirelessly to help keep us all safe. But they  were set up to fail by the Democrats that day. And then, of course,  Democrats placed all the blame on President Trump and the Republicans  for everything that happened that day and afterwards. They had the  majority.

Nancy Pelosi spearheaded the true insurrection that day. This has all  been proven true, and she even admitted responsibility for the massive  security failures of that day. But the Democrats' plan to destroy  President Trump and his supporters, it didn't end on that January 6,  2021. For the next 4 years--next 4 years--Joe Biden and the Democrats  did everything they could do--everything--to arrest, harass, bankrupt,  deplatform, and kill President Trump--not to mention the hundreds of  innocent patriotic Americans who sat behind bars for the past 5 years  over this made up witch hunt. That is one of the most embarrassing  things I have seen since I have been here.

Thankfully, most of them now have been released. You know,  conveniently, the Biden DOJ neglected to investigate members of the  intelligence community for their treasonous involvement in the events  of January 6. That was very convenient. As a matter of fact, they never  brought the guy in who was in charge of Capitol Hill police for an  interview. They never wanted to talk to him. He was in charge of the  Capitol Hill police--because he knew the truth.

Still today, Democrats are trying to rewrite the true events of that  history. They keep mentioning all of these Capitol Police who  supposedly died on January 6. Now, don't get me wrong. We have brave  people that work in this building. But this was made up, and it  continued to be made up. The only person who died on January 6 was  Ashli Babbitt, an unarmed Air Force veteran who was shot that day in  this building.

Recently, Senate Democrats attempted--think about this--attempted to  strip Ashli Babbitt of her military funeral honors. Now, why would they  do that? Ashli Babbitt was wrongfully killed on January 6, 2021. The  Federal Government admitted it, and they paid money to her family as  part of a legal settlement. Interesting. But Democrats, they don't care  about the truth.

Today is a reminder that radical Democrats and the Deep State, they  don't like our country the way we run it too much, and they will do  whatever it takes to try to make the Republican Party and President  Trump look bad. Unfortunately, for them, the American people aren't  buying it. Mr. President, 77 million people came to the rescue of our  country a year ago in November--77 million people. And that is why  President Trump is back in the White House, and thank God he is.

So, no, we don't need a resolution condemning the attack on the  Capitol on January 6. In fact, the only thing we should be doing is  condemning Nancy Pelosi's role in setting up the government  orchestration and orchestrated the hoax of January 6.