Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700459/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, I have come to the floor several times  over the past few months to sound the alarm about the serious threats  that radical Islam poses to the United States of America. You know,  unfortunately, we are seeing that play out in real time now with what  is happening over in Iran.

You know, as I have discussed many times, radical Islam is not a  religion. It is a death cult, and it is a political ideology that  encourages Muslims to kill all infidels. In simple terms, that means  Americans and Christians. So it shouldn't be a surprise that Iran  launched a 47-year war against the United States almost immediately  after being taken over by radical Islam in February of 1979.

Just 9 months after the Iranian Revolution, which put the radical  Islamists in charge, a group of Iranians stormed the U.S. Embassy in  Tehran and took 66 American hostages. Sometimes, we forget.

A few years later, in 1983, Iran helped orchestrate the deadly Beirut  bombing of the U.S. Marine barracks, which killed 241 American  servicemembers--241. How soon we forget.

In October 2000, Iran's proxies bombed the USS Cole off the coast of  Yemen.

In 2012, Iran conducted a series of cyber attacks on critical  American infrastructure, seeking to take us down digitally.

In 2016, they seized two American ships and held 10 U.S. Navy sailors  hostage for 16 hours.

Since 2023, Iran and its proxies have attacked--have attacked--U.S.  forces 180 times across the world, not to mention they have done all of  this while chanting ``Death to America.'' How nice.

Clearly, these radical Islamic terrorists have one goal in mind: to  wipe out the United States America, to wipe us off the face of the  Earth. To accomplish this goal, they have been working feverishly to  develop a nuclear weapon to gain more strength and more power.

Thanks to Barack Obama entering the Iran nuclear deal in 2015,  sending them pallets of cash, they were almost successful. This so- called deal basically allowed Iran to build a nuclear stockpile, to  which the United States for years turned a blind eye.

The deal remained in place until 2018, when President Trump withdrew  and imposed maximum-pressure sanctions on Iran. You know, the pressure  worked, as Iran's economy was plunged into a deep recession during  President Trump's 4 years in office. But luckily for them, Joe Biden  got into the White House in 2021, and what did he do? He immediately  reentered Obama's broken nuclear deal with Iran, empowering Iran to  once again build a nuclear arsenal.

They were well on their way to achieving that goal of nuclear power,  but Iran's luck ran out when President Trump got back into office last  year. He pulled the United States out of that nuclear deal, and a few  months later, President Trump gave an order for Operation Midnight  Hammer, which was one of the most impressive missions in U.S. military  history. This flawlessly executed operation destroyed the nuclear  capabilities Iran had been building under Joe Biden.

Unfortunately, Iran's nuclear ambitions didn't end there. Iran's  former leader, the deranged Ayatollah, was doing everything he could to  get their nuclear program back together.

These terrorists cannot be trusted. They want to see every single  freedom-loving American dead--pretty plain and simple--and they would  like the use of a nuclear weapon to do that. That is the reason they  were working for that.

So, as Secretary of War Pete Hegseth said, we didn't start this war,  but we  are damn sure going to finish it. And thank goodness somebody has  stepped up to the plate.

Thanks to President Trump and Secretary Hegseth, on Saturday morning,  U.S. military forces began Operation Epic Fury, a targeted mission to  wipe out Iranian leadership and obliterate the country's offensive  ballistic missile and nuclear weapons capabilities.

Unlike the forever wars in the past 50 years, Operation Epic Fury's  goals, by President of the United States Donald Trump, are clearly laid  out: Destroy the Iranian regime's missiles and their launchers,  annihilate their navy, prevent their terrorist proxies from  destabilizing the world, and ensure Iran can never--never--obtain a  nuclear weapon.

You know, we tried diplomacy, but as the old saying goes, you can't  negotiate with terrorists. They wanted nothing to do with it, but  President Trump and his group tried. That is what these people are-- terrorists--motivated by their radical Islamic beliefs.

If you don't believe me, let's look directly into the Quran. In 2:98  of the Quran, it says: Allah is the enemy of all non-Muslims.

Pretty simple.

In 8:12 of the Quran, it says: Allah will instill fear in the heart  of those who disbelieve, therefore strike them upon the necks.

If you wondered where radical Muslims got the idea of beheading  people, which we saw many times over the years, now you know.

Or take Quran 8:39, which says: Fight non-Muslims until the faith of  Allah is fully established.

Those are not my words. This is all clearly written in the book of  Quran.

Now do you see why I say that radical Islam is not a religion but is  a death cult? They have a plan.

There has been a lot of talk over the past few days about what  ``America First'' means, and that is OK. In this country, you have the  right to debate and even to disagree with your government. That is what  this country is all about. But despite the fact that President Trump  has been the leader of the free world for the majority of the last  decade, the mainstream media and leftists still don't seem to  understand it.

So let's spell it out for you: MAGA isn't about isolationism. It is  the big stick that punishes the people who chant ``Death to America.''

``America First'' is about having a military so strong and so  effective that your enemies go into hiding.

In case you haven't noticed, you haven't heard a peep out of Russia  or China since President Trump took out the Iranian terrorists this  past Saturday. In fact, China's oil imports have been crippled since  President Trump took out the Venezuelan dictator and now the radical  Islamic Iranian regime. President Trump now has put our enemies on  notice. Mess around and find out.

To the left screaming ``endless wars,'' no, it isn't. We have been  fighting this war since 1979. Now, it is time to end it. Americans have  been regularly killed by these radical terrorists since 1979. This  operation isn't about nation-building. It is about protecting U.S.  citizens by making sure these terrorists don't get their hands on a  nuclear weapon.

I am proud of our military, which has valiantly executed the mission  so far. This has been the most lethal and successful air campaign in  history. This is a highly complex mission. President Trump says he  expects to potentially go a few more weeks, hopefully minimizing any  more American casualties along the way.

I join every American in mourning the losses of the six American  servicemembers who have been killed so far. These men and women are  patriots who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country and for our  safety. We join their families and friends in mourning their losses,  and we pray for the safe return of all of our brave warriors overseas.

But for those of us who are in the homeland, we must stay vigilant  because the truth is that the threat of radical Islam isn't confined to  the Middle East any longer. Under Joe Biden, thousands of radical  Islamic terrorists illegally entered our country. We have no idea how  many terrorists are here. We have no idea where they are at. It is  scary, but it is true.

Just this past weekend, a 53-year-old naturalized American citizen-- born in Africa--entered a bar in Austin, TX, and senselessly murdered  3--3--innocent Americans and injured 14 others. To no one's surprise,  the terrorist was wearing a sweatshirt that read ``Property of Allah,''  along with a T-shirt underneath with an Iranian flag printed on it. Law  enforcement also found a Quran in the terrorist's vehicle.

If we don't do something about the terrorists who are here, this may  just be the first in a string of attacks carried out by Muslim  terrorist cells in the next few months.

You don't have to look far to see the rising influence that Islam is  having in the United States. More than 5 million Muslims live here  today, and they are influencing our culture and even our laws. We are  blessed that the freedom of worship is a constitutionally guaranteed  right in this country, and it should be. If you want to come here  legally, peacefully practice your religion, and blend into our society  by adopting the treasured American values of life, liberty, and the  pursuit of happiness, you are welcome to do so. That is what this  country is all about. But if you believe that Sharia law supersedes  American law, our Constitution, and that it is righteous to kill  Americans, you should be deported--pronto.

Sharia law is anti-American and has no place in a free society. Yet,  we are seeing U.S. towns and cities starting to enforce elements of  Sharia law itself. Towns in Minnesota, Michigan, and New Jersey now  allow daily Islamic calls to prayer to be blasted on speakers in public  places. Now, that is not even allowed in Muslim countries--they can't  do that--but we allow that to happen in our country.

The iconic Times Square in New York has been taken over daily by  Islamic calls to prayer--and don't even get me started on this Islamic  mayor in New York City. He took his oath of office with one hand on-- what?--the Quran. I wonder if he agrees with the Quran statements I  listed earlier. I wonder if he believes that. He was recently seen  praying with Muslim police officers, which is fine. Before we realize  it, Mamdani will be enacting Sharia law in America's premier city and  not the U.S. Constitution. It is coming. Additionally, Mamdani recently  visited a New York City mosque which has ties to the Iranian regime. To  make matters worse, the mayor's friend, who runs a mosque, openly prays  for the killing of infidels. And who is that? That is you.

But it isn't just New York. A city in Michigan recently legalized the  barbaric live slaughter of animals for Muslim holidays. This is not a  Third World country, folks. We do not sacrifice animals in the streets  of the United States of America, but I guess our Western values go out  the window when it comes to appeasing the Islamic death cult.

Over the weekend, not far from our Nation's Capital, a mosque held a  memorial service for the late Ayatollah, who was taken out just the  past week by President Trump. They had a memorial service for him. The  mosque's social media post described the Iranian dictator as a martyr  and ``our leader.'' These are people right down the street. Yes, this  is the very same terrorist who was responsible for murdering tens of  thousands of his own people just last month. He was working every  single day to form a worldwide caliphate where Sharia law would be the  constitution and global terrorism--or jihad--would be its foreign  policy, and you have to have Islamists on American soil calling him a  hero. It is absolutely sickening.

For some reason, our colleagues the Democrats in this body are siding  with these people. I don't understand that. I mean, they have nothing  to do with America. We even have some elected officials in this body  who worship Sharia law, and they need to be stopped. If these people  love these Third World countries they are from so much, especially  those people in the House, please feel free to move.

A mosque in Dearborn, MI, also held a vigil for the evil Iranian  dictator, calling him the ``great leader of our time.'' But they didn't  stop there. These idiots also claimed that America was built by devil  worshipers, referred to the Statue of Liberty as ``Lucifer'', and said  they want their children to grow up in a culture of jihad--killing all  Christian Americans.

These people seem to be completely ignorant about the Founders of our  country. So here is a little about the history of America: We weren't  built by devil worshipers. In fact, America was founded by Christians  who believed in one true God. That is why our motto is ``In God We  Trust.'' It is on our currency. Our God is full of forgiveness and  mercy. Jesus, his son, taught us to turn the other cheek and love our  neighbor as ourselves.

Allah, on the other hand, shows no mercy. In fact, he encourages  murder, violence, and the torturing of women. This is why I say that  radical Islam is fundamentally incompatible with American Christian  values. In America, women are allowed to dress, go to school, work, and  marry whomever they like. Iran used to be like this, too, before they  were taken over by radical Islamists in 1979.

This is them post-1979.

Sadly, under the sick leadership of these terrorists, women are  treated like dogs. Did you hear that? Women are treated like dogs. They  are forced to cover every part of their bodies--of their skin--except  for their eyes. They aren't allowed to leave home unless they are with  a male escort. They aren't allowed to get an education or work a job,  and they are forced sometimes to marry as young as 6 years old.  Pedophilia and inbreeding are rampant, and women are lucky if they are  allowed to drive.

Hell, we have a U.S. Congresswoman from one of these Third World  Muslim countries who is married to her brother.

Where are all my Democrat colleagues who claim to be feminists? They  should be outraged by Islam's treatment of women.

We cannot allow this sort of poisonous ideology to fester. Under Joe  Biden, 10 to 20 million people came here illegally. Many of these  people came from radical Islamic countries and brought their sick  ideology with them.

If you live in the United States and practice Sharia law, you should  be deported immediately. We have no choice, folks, if we want to keep  this country. Don't let the door hit you on the ass on the way out, is  what I say. If you chant ``Death to America,'' we do not want you here.

We are stupid if we just sit on our hands while terrorist cells work  to pull off their next attack and say that this is a one-time deal. It  is not.

Thanks to our Democrat colleagues who just like the way this country  is going and love power, the Department of Homeland Security now is  shut down. That is really smart. This is not the time to be playing  politics. This is an urgent national security crisis. Every single one  of my Senate colleagues put their hand on the Bible in this room and  swore an oath when they joined this body. We swore to defend the  Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and  domestic.

Well, I have news for you. The enemies are inside the gates. They are  here. It is past time that we reopened the Department of Homeland  Security and deported every single terrorist who is living in this  country--and there are thousands.

If we don't take a stand now, our way of life, our Christian values,  our freedoms, and our national identity are gone. It is going to be  over. There is only room for one law in this country, and that is the  Constitution of the United States of America. For too long, people have  tiptoed around this issue--afraid to hurt someone's feelings or to make  people uncomfortable. But the time for being politically correct is  over.

So the question is: Will we continue to turn a blind eye to the  radical Islamic cult, or will we stand up before more Americans are  killed?

Now is the time to act. If we don't, we will lose our country as we  all know it. We are already starting to see it happen. This isn't a  Republican or a Democrat issue. This is an American issue. I wish more  of my Republican and Democrat colleagues would join me in denouncing  radical Islam before it is too late, but it seems like we are living in  an age in which people are too scared to stand up for what is right.  Weak leaders have allowed the Islamic cult to destroy Europe.

Folks, we are going to be next.

Thank God for President Trump, who actually has the courage to take  out these radical terrorists. Let's get in, complete the mission, and  get out. God bless our President, God bless our troops, and God bless  the United States of America.