Immigration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697927/immigration


Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, I came to the floor earlier this year  to warn of the imminent threat that Islam poses to our great country.  Unfortunately, that threat turned into reality just a few weeks ago  when a deranged jihadist shot two of our National Guardsmen just steps  from the White House. Just before Thanksgiving, SPC Sarah Backstrom and  SSG Andrew Wolfe were on patrol near the White House when they were  attacked by Biden-imported Afghan Islamists. A 29-year-old jihadist  radically, viciously attacked them, killing Specialist Backstrom and  leaving Staff Sergeant Wolfe in critical condition.

He is still fighting for his life today. Our prayers go out to him  and his family.

So let's make it very clear. The Afghan terrorist attacked these two  soldiers because that is what Islam teaches. The Quran says to kill all  infidels. That means all people who don't believe in Islam.

So let's not mince words about this. Islamists want every single  American, and especially Christian Americans, they want them dead.

In 2021, Joe Biden orchestrated the botched Afghan withdrawal, which  was one of the most embarrassing days in our country's history.  Thirteen American soldiers lost their lives as a direct result of the  Biden disastrous, misinformed leadership, not to mention he empowered  the Taliban, who came crawling out of the hills, to take back control  of Afghanistan.

To make matters worse, Joe Biden then allowed more than 190,000--let  me repeat that--190,000 unvetted Afghans into this country, no  questions asked, not to mention the more than 7 billion in equipment  that was left behind for the Taliban, which, by the way, now has been  showing up all over the world after it has been sold.

These potential terrorists are now living amongst us, residing in our  neighborhoods, going to our kids' schools, and mooching off our  taxpayer benefits.

That withdrawal was an embarrassment and a stain on our country.

The 29-year-old, deranged terrorist who shot two National Guardsmen  in DC was working with the CIA in Afghanistan and was part of an elite  unit that was supposed to be helping fight our Nation's enemies.  Clearly, this person was deranged and should never have been allowed to  work with our intelligence Agencies or to come to the United States  where he viciously attacked two American guardsmen while chanting  ``Allahu Akbar.''

Make no mistake, this is part of the deep state's globalist agenda  that aims to destroy this country through mass Islamic migration.

Where is the outrage from the people in this Chamber? I haven't heard  it. If we don't do something to stop this Islamic takeover of our  country, we will soon be called the ``United Caliphate of America.''

If the previous administration prioritized protecting American  citizens instead of inviting terrorists to our country, Sarah Backstrom  may still be alive today.

Thanks to President Trump, a travel ban has been placed on Afghans,  along with people from 18 other Third World countries, including  Somalia. And I have got a message to the immigrants from these Islamist  countries: If you hate this country, refuse to go by our laws, and  chant ``Death to America,'' it is time to go home.

There are a lot of good people that come from Middle Eastern  countries and go by our laws and assimilate with our culture, but if  you come here otherwise, it is time to go home.

The Trump administration is also prioritizing the deportation of  Afghans who are already here illegally. You know, I am 100 percent  behind President Trump's effort to get rid of all Islamists who hate  our country, as I just previously said, take advantage of the system  when they come here. Don't defraud our government. Don't come here to  try to destroy us. Assimilate with the Americans in this country to  make our country better. We should be welcoming immigrants who are  willing to assimilate with our culture and to contribute to our  society. That is what we want. Being in this country is a privilege,  not a right. If you are an immigrant coming to this country, you need  to leave your old way of life and the traditions behind and come here  and work with us.

Unfortunately, many of the Islamists who are here are not doing that.  They are doing whatever they can to turn our country into the Third  World hell hole that they came from.

We are different. We want a great country, not a Third World country.  These foreigners don't understand what this country stands for. This  country owes you nothing but an opportunity to succeed. It doesn't owe  you a handout.

Islamist immigrants come to this country with a sense of entitlement,  and that is what this country is not about. We will give you a hand but  not everything. They believe the American people owe them something,  and we don't owe anybody anything. They take advantage of our system.

If this is your attitude, we don't want you here. We want you to help  this country become better.

The Somali population in Minnesota, as we have been watching on the  news for the last few days, is an example of a group that thinks they  are entitled to take anything they want from the American people and  force Americans to bow to their will.

Somali immigrants in Minnesota were recently caught stealing more  than 1 billion and counting from American taxpayers--stealing. They  pretended to use the money to feed children or help people with autism,  but really they were stealing. They were stealing the money and sending  it to terrorists in Somalia--all proven.

This is very evil, and it is straight from the pit of Hell.  Terrorists are driving around in Toyota Land Cruisers in Somalia,  bought and paid for by the American taxpayers.

FOX News recently reported that members of Minnesota's Democratic  Representative Ilhan Omar's inner circle--people working for her--were  personally profiting from this fraud. Omar held at least one event at  one of the restaurants named in the massive fraud scheme. One of  Congresswoman Omar's staffers has already been convicted for his role  in the fraud. It runs very deep. All of this has taken place inside of  Omar's congressional district, and she is doing everything she can to  defend these Somali criminals.

These people were empowered by woke and clueless so-called Governor  Tim Walz, whose government handed the funds to these Somalia criminals  and turned a blind eye.

For example, one of the scams run by the Somalia nonprofit disguised  itself as a housing assistance program. Sounds great. The initial  budget for this program was $2.6 million. However, the annual budget  quickly increased to over $100 million due to fake billing and fraud.  Whose money is that? The American taxpayers'.

There were red flags all over the place. Tim Walz had every  opportunity to see this, investigate, and stop this fraud and  corruption. Instead, he looked the other way. That makes him complicit.  He should go to jail for this. Anybody else would.

Now he is trying to deflect by calling those who are angry about the  Somali fraud racist. Sure they do. That is the word they always use.  This has nothing to do with racism. Some illegal immigrants stole more  than $1 billion, and counting, from the American taxpayers--again,  proven. That should make every single American's blood boil.

Democrats invite terrorists from all over the world into this  country. They let them steal our benefits, enjoy our schools, overrun  our hospitals, vote in our elections, and then steal our tax dollars to  send back to their home countries to fund terrorism.

By the way, I have seen all of these woke Democrats, like Omar,  calling Somalia a wonderful place. If it is such a wonderful place, why  doesn't she move back? If Somalia is all that, why is the terrorist  group al-Shabaab murdering civilians by the masses, and why is the  capital of Somalia considered to be one of the most dangerous capitals  in the world due to frequent terrorist bombings, targeted killings, and  ambushes? That sounds like a place no one would ever want to visit or  live.

Predictably, Somalis often flee their country, and woke Democrats  welcomed these often-unvetted individuals with open arms to the United  States through illegal programs. But they make no attempt to adapt to  our way and our American lives. Instead, they try to turn whatever  American city they are hiding out in into Somalia 2.0.

Thankfully, the Trump administration is working around the clock to  reverse the evil open borders agenda that was allowed to thrive under  Joe Biden's administration.

Look, despite what the woke media will tell you, President Trump is  not anti-immigration. President Trump is incentivizing and welcoming  immigrants into the country who are going to come here to contribute  and assimilate and love our country like we do. That is what we are all  about. If that is not you--if they don't want to do that--again, we  don't want you here.

The Trump administration has worked tirelessly this year to arrest  and deport millions of illegals brought into the country by the Biden  administration. Patriotic Americans are thankful for the work of DHS  and ICE and what they are doing to clean up our streets.

If we don't take this threat seriously, more terrorist attacks will  take place, and more stories of third world Islamists defrauding our  country and using our tax dollars to fund terrorism against the United  States will become commonplace.

DNI Tulsi Gabbard released a report not long ago about the imminent  threat of terrorism that is facing our country. It is here. The recent  terrorist attack in DC may just be the beginning of Islamic plans to  destroy this country. The 29-year-old psychopath who did this should be  hung in the streets.

We need to send a message to every terrorist hiding out in this  country just waiting to attack: We are not going to put up with this  nonsense. You will be punished to the fullest extent of the law if you  commit violence against American citizens.

It is time to wake up, and it is time for all Americans to speak up.  This is not a Democrat or Republican issue; this is an American issue.  That is why I raised hell when I heard that the Islamic Academy of  Alabama was looking to build a bigger campus in Hoover, AL, just last  week. I looked at their website. They openly admit that they teach the  Quran. The Quran teaches that it is righteous to kill anyone who is not  a Muslim. Think about that.

The media has called me a racist for calling this out. Radical Islam  isn't a race; it is a political ideology, and it is a cult. No, I am  not a racist, and I clearly--people back in Alabama agree with me. I  was proud to see hundreds of Alabamians show up to protest at the  zoning meeting where the building proposal was being considered.

I was asked about it, and I said the only place this Islamic Academy  should be moving to is out of Alabama and out of our country. We don't  want that talk. Come here and assimilate with our laws; go by our laws,  nobody else's.

As a result, this Islamic school withdrew their proposal.

This is an example of what it is going to take to defeat this  poisonous ideology. This is an example of what we do not want to deal  with. It is going to take all of us red-blooded Americans coming  together and saying enough is enough.

Europe has lost the war of immigration. It is no longer recognizable.  For a lot of countries in Europe, mass immigration of Islamists has  ruined their way of life. They turned a blind eye, like we are at the  moment, and are going to have to fight in the streets to get their  countries back.

It is coming. That is exactly what is going to happen in this country  in a few short years if we don't act now to save our country and our  way of life.

I achieved the highest honor of my life this year, receiving the  title of ``grandfather'' to Rosie Grace, my first granddaughter. I want  her to grow up in the same America that I had the opportunity and  privilege to grow up in. If we don't stand up now, our grandchildren's  future is going to be lost forever. We have to draw a line in the sand:  You are either an American who loves this country or you are not.

It is the job of the DOJ, the DHS, and the FBI to arrest these  people, these terrorists, these radical terrorists, and either put them  in jail or send them home. Now is the time. We do not need to let the  clock run out on us. Let's not be Europe. Next year may be too late.