Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services Relating to ``Patient Protection and Affordable Care


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698981/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-centers-for-medicare-medicaid-services-relating-to-patient-protection-and-affordable-care


Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, for months, I have been raising the  alarm over radical Islam infiltrating the greatest country on the face  of the Earth, the United States of America.

Some Americans see what is happening in Europe, and they think, would  that ever happen in our country? The reality is, yes. It is happening  right now, right before our very eyes. The enemy is now inside the  gates.

There are plenty of Muslims that come here, love this country,  assimilate into American culture, and they have a duty to join in the  fight and speak out against the mainstream media and elected officials  who are empowering radical Islam to take a foothold in the United  States of America.

Governor Kathy Hochul of New York welcomed in the new year by  declaring January as Muslim American Heritage Month. To red-blooded  American patriots' dismay, Hochul directed State landmarks, including  the iconic skyline of New York City, to be lit in the color Islamic  green.

What makes the situation even worse is that One World Trade Center  was also lit up in Islamic green, as you see here--the exact location  where Islamic terrorists flew planes into the Twin Towers on September  11, 2001, killing thousands of innocent Americans. You know, this was a  slap in the face of the families of the nearly 3,000 victims who were  murdered and the thousands injured on that very, very tragic day.

I never thought I would see something like this in my lifetime. But  for years, the radical left, the globalists, and the deep state have  colluded to destroy this country and have found a way to flood our  communities with third-world Muslims whose only goal is not to  assimilate but to destroy the West and create a worldwide caliphate. If  you don't understand what that looks like, just take a look at Europe.

Under Barack Obama and Joe Biden, our Federal Government imported  millions of foreigners who hate America, enabling them to live on  welfare and forcing American taxpayers to pay the bills.

New York City's recent mayoral election reveals how easily a Muslim  communist can come to power in our Nation's most iconic city. You know,  foreign-born, communist mayor Zohran Mamdani polled 62 percent of  support from foreign-born voters in New York. They weren't born in the  State of New York. They weren't born in our country. Sixty-two percent  of them supported him. Only 30 percent of American-born voters voted  for him.

Under Joe Biden, millions of illegal aliens, including terrorists,  murders, and rapists, were planted there to completely destroy the  freedom-loving voter base, all on purpose. As a result, a foreign-born,  Muslim communist who hates the greatest Nation on Earth and wants to  change it is now in power.

During his inaugural ceremony, commie Mamdani used two Qurans for his  swearing-in ceremony, not the Bible. He used a book that advocates for  the killing of all who don't believe in Islam or refuse to follow  Islamic teachings. He was also sworn in at an abandoned subway--a  subway station symbolizing what New York City will soon look like when  freedom-loving Americans flee for their lives and Sharia law becomes  the rule of law in the five boroughs in New York City.

New York City, the symbol of liberty and freedom in the new world, is  now turning into the same oppressive hellhole freedom-loving immigrants  have fled from for centuries. They have been running from it. But now  we are changing into that same situation.

The deep state hasn't wasted any time in 2026 to accelerate its  globalist agenda to destroy this country. And if we don't do something  to stop this Islamic takeover of our country, we will soon be called  the United Caliphate of America. That means Christians, Jews, and  anyone else who doesn't convert to Islam will be prosecuted and  persecuted. It will be acceptable for young girls and women to be  raped, and Islamic terrorism and violence will become the norm.

Thankfully, President Trump and his administration are working day  and night to save this country through mass deportation, revoking  immigrant visas, and implementing travel bans on majority-Muslim  countries that support the radical Islam crowds who chant ``Death to  America.''

We continue to see more evidence come out of Muslim third world  foreigners defrauding American people of their hard-earned tax dollars.  Thanks to independent journalist Nick Shirley, more and more fraud from  Somali immigrants in Minnesota who are pretending to use the money to  feed children or help people with autism is being exposed every day  now.

In a recent hearing in the House Committee on Oversight and Reform,  testimony from a Minnesota State representative claimed that U.S.  attorney Joe Thompson estimates that the total amount of criminal fraud  to this point, after 5 years, has reached $9 billion. That is billion  with a ``b.''

Minnesota's attorney general said this weekend on CNN in an interview  that, you know, the fraud estimation is not a serious thing and that is  just political theater.

That is expensive political theater.

A statement like that is not only an insult to many, many  Minnesotans, but it is also a slap in the face to the hard-working  taxpayers of this country. What is taking place in Minnesota is pure  evil, and it is straight from the pit of Hell.

It is impressive to me that a 23-year-old independent journalist did  more to serve the American people with investigative reporting than the  so-called experts in the legacy media. Where are they?

The fake news is complicit with the radical Islamic takeover of the  United States, and they are in on the scam on the American taxpayers.

Thanks to Nick Shirley's efforts, more fraud is being exposed in  other States.

FOX News recently reported that Somalia's Permanent Representative to  the United Nations, now serving as President of the U.N. Security  Council, is linked to an Ohio home healthcare agency that has  previously been punished for its ties to massive fraud.

There are other reports surfacing about Somalia's Minister of Foreign  Affairs running a healthcare company in Toledo, OH, who has a business  partner that works for a Somali money transfer service which has been  accused of financing Islamic terrorism.

You can't make this up. It goes on and on. So here is more. For  months, a new publication in the State of Maine known as the Maine Wire  reported on a similar event taking place in Lewiston, ME, also known  today as Little Mogadishu. Gateway Community Services, founded by a  Somalian refugee, received $28.8 million in MaineCare payments between  2019 and 2024--$28 million. Last year, a whistleblower came forward  alleging that the organization systematically defrauded the  MaineCare Program for the last 5 years. Thanks to the hard work of the  Trump administration, funding has stopped, and the organization is  under severe investigation.

As more of this comes to light, a couple facts are becoming more and  more apparent. No. 1, third world foreigners from predominantly Muslim  countries are coming here and stealing American tax dollars while they  spew anti-American rhetoric. No. 2, Democratic elected officials seem  to be complicit in helping foreigners who hate this country steal from  their own constituents, their own people who vote for them.

The enemies of our country are robbing American citizens in broad  daylight, while the cost-of-living standards in our country skyrocket  higher than they should be, and healthcare premiums go up year after  year. That should make every single American's blood boil.

But Democrats have invited terrorists from countries that hate us.  They steal our benefits. They enjoy our schools, overrun our hospitals,  vote in our elections, and then steal our tax dollars and send them  back to the country they came from, where they can fund terrorism.

Thankfully, we have a President who loves this country and is going  to change it. President Trump and his administration are working around  the clock to halt immigration and to stop fraudulent schemes that were  allowed to take place under Joe Biden.

Patriotic Americans are thankful for the work of DHS and ICE and what  they are doing to clean up our streets--at a cost. DHS and ICE agents  have been targeted by radicals because they are enforcing the law--what  a thought. And I will continue to support law enforcement until every  single illegal is out of this country and comes here the right way.

If you are going to interfere in law enforcement's ability to do  their jobs, folks, in any way, don't be surprised if you are arrested  and thrown into jail--and you should be.

Thanks to investigative reporters like Nick Shirley and folks at the  Maine Wire, we are slowly turning the tide on fraud and corruption.  Deep state and the fake news media and third-world Islamists are  eroding our country from within.

We need to wake up. American citizens need to recognize what is going  on and say: Enough is enough.

As long as I am alive, I will fight to ensure that my granddaughter  Rosie Grace can grow up in the same country that I and a lot of people  had the chance to grow up in--the greatest country on the face of the  Earth. And what I am telling people across this country and what should  have happened in Europe years ago: Folks, wake up. They are here. The  enemy is inside the gate. We are in bad trouble. And if we don't stop  it, we will lose this country that has been built for 250 years.