-9999


Mr. GOLDMAN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Mr. Jeffrey  L. DeWitt on his retirement from the Fort Worth Fire Department after  37 years of dedication and service to the City of Fort Worth. Founded  152 years ago, the Fort Worth Fire Department is a nationally  recognized agency with a rich history of serving and protecting the  13th-largest city in the nation.

Born and raised in Upstate New York, Mr. DeWitt moved to Texas as  quickly as he could. He became one of the first paid firefighters with  the Keller Fire Department in the early 1980s. He joined the Fort Worth  Fire Department on May 6, 1988, as a full-time commissioned firefighter  in Class 41. Over his career, he served in four stations, including the  historic Downtown Station 1, where he was assigned on December 12,  1997. The following year, he was promoted to Engineer at Station 1.  During this time, he had the honor of driving ``The Big One,'' the  largest engine at the Fort Worth Fire Department for 13 years--a fact  his young daughters proudly shared, saying, ``Dad drives the big truck  downtown.''

In addition to his many years with the Fort Worth Fire Department, he  has spent nearly two decades instructing classes at the Fire Academy at  Tarrant County College. As an instructor for both new recruits and  continuing certification courses for commissioned firefighters, his  positive impact extends to other fire departments across the State of  Texas.

Now, as he retires from Station 35 in the critical Fort Worth  Alliance Airport Corridor, Mr. DeWitt holds the distinction of being  the department's senior-most engineer and a certified Aircraft Rescue  and Fire Fighting (ARFF) firefighter.

Mr. DeWitt truly exemplifies the mission of the Fort Worth Fire  Department. Throughout  his many years of service, he has worked tirelessly to protect others  before himself. He will undoubtedly continue to embrace the spirit of a  dedicated first responder and an engaged member of our Fort Worth  community. I know he is looking forward to well-earned time with his  family and first grandchild.

On behalf of the 12th Congressional District of Texas, it is an honor  to recognize Mr. Jeffrey L. DeWitt's service to the Fort Worth Fire  Department and his impact on keeping our community safe for the past 37  years. I wish him and his family the very best as they celebrate his  retirement.