Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702090/reliable-federal-infrastructure-act


Mr. GOLDMAN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, let me first express my  condolences to the Scott family on the passing of our colleague,  Congressman   David Scott.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Reliable Federal  Infrastructure Act, led by my colleague Representative Langworthy.

Nearly 20 years ago, Congress passed the Energy Independence and  Security Act, which required Federal facilities to phase out fossil  fuels with the goal of eliminating all onsite fossil fuel-generated  energy by 2030.

Over the years, those requirements were nowhere close to being met.

Ignoring these mandates, the Biden administration expanded the scope  of this law and doubled down on the 2030 deadline to remove all natural  gas from Federal facilities. That deadline is now just 4 years away.  Any attempt to meet these ridiculous requirements will lead to serious  consequences.

The Federal facilities subject to these green energy mandates are  fundamental to our energy safety, security, and our economy. Military  bases, hospitals, computing centers, national laboratories, and  courthouses are among the critical facilities that would be put at risk  of unreliable power.

A report from the Department of Energy acknowledges that a full  transition to green energy sources would be extraordinarily expensive  and unworkable. The Government Accountability Office has also warned  that imposing these mandates on military intelligence centers could not  only threaten reliable power but also compromise our national security.

These extreme green energy mandates would be costly, impractical, and  dangerous. Without the Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act to repeal  them, we are looking at higher energy costs passed on to taxpayers,  unreliable power for critical systems, and a serious threat to military  readiness.

Don't just take my word for it. Energy companies from my home State  of Texas have provided valuable insight and testimony into how  unreliable energy would harm our Federal facilities.

ONE Gas, a natural gas utility operating in my congressional  district, supports the Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act. They  understand that natural gas is essential to providing reliable and  resilient power to our most critical infrastructure. Additionally, the  American Gas Association, which represents many incredible Texas-based  energy companies, also supports this legislation. The association has  made clear that natural gas remains the most dependable energy resource  available.

Especially during emergencies and power outages, reliable natural gas  is critical to keeping Federal facilities online. Removing that  dependable energy source is shortsighted and puts these facilities at  unnecessary risk.

When our national security is on the line, we cannot simply hope that  the wind blows and the Sun shines. We need reliable, secure, and  affordable energy for our most critical facilities.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the Reliable  Federal Infrastructure Act.