Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, the Constitution is at the foundation of  our Republic's success, and we each strive not to lose sight of our  promise to defend it. 

  The Constitution established a vehicle of impeachment that has  occupied both Houses of our Congress these many days. We have labored  to faithfully execute our responsibilities to it. We have arrived at  different judgments, but I hope we respect each other's good faith. 

  The allegations made in the Articles of Impeachment are very serious.  As a Senator juror, I swore an oath before God to exercise impartial  justice. I am profoundly religious. My faith is at the heart of who I  am. I take an oath before God as enormously consequential. 

  I knew from the outset that being tasked with judging the President-- the leader of my own party--would be the most difficult decision I have  ever faced. I was not wrong. 

  The House managers presented evidence supporting their case, and the  White House counsel disputed that case. 

  In addition, the President's team presented three defenses: first,  that there could be no impeachment without a statutory crime; second,  that the Bidens' conduct justified the President's actions; and third,  that the judgment of the President's actions should be left to the  voters. Let me first address those three defenses. 

  The historic meaning of the words ``high crimes and misdemeanors,''  the writings of the Founders, and my own reasoned judgment convinced me  that a President can indeed commit acts against the public trust that  are so egregious that, while they are not statutory crimes, they would  demand removal from office. 

  To maintain that the lack of a codified and comprehensive list of all  the outrageous acts that a President might conceivably commit renders  Congress powerless to remove such a President defies reason. 

  The President's counsel also notes that Vice President Biden appeared  to have a conflict of interest when he undertook an effort to remove  the Ukrainian prosecutor general. If he knew of the exorbitant  compensation his son was receiving from a company actually under  investigation, the Vice President should have recused himself. While  ignoring a conflict of interest is not a crime, it is surely very  wrong. 

  With regard to Hunter Biden, taking excessive advantage of his  father's name is unsavory but also not a crime. 

  Given that in neither the case of the father nor the son was any  evidence presented by the President's counsel that a crime had been  committed, the President's insistence that they be investigated by the  Ukrainians is hard to explain other than as a political pursuit. There  is no question in my mind that were their names not Biden, the  President would never have done what he did. 

  The defense argues that the Senate should leave the impeachment  decision to the voters. While that logic is appealing to our democratic  instincts, it is inconsistent with the Constitution's requirement that  the Senate, not the voters, try the President. Hamilton explained that  the Founders' decision to invest Senators with this obligation rather  than leave it to the voters was intended to minimize to the extent  possible the partisan sentiments of the public at large. So the verdict  is ours to render under our Constitution. The people will judge us for  how well and faithfully we fulfill our duty. 

  The grave question the Constitution tasks Senators to answer is  whether the President committed an act so extreme and egregious that it  rises to the level of a high crime and misdemeanor. Yes, he did. The  President asked a foreign government to investigate his political  rival. The President withheld vital military funds from that government  to press it to do so. The President delayed funds for an American ally  at war with Russian invaders. The President's purpose was personal and  political. Accordingly, the President is guilty of an appalling abuse  of public trust. 

  What he did was not ``perfect.'' No, it was a flagrant assault on our  electoral rights, our national security, and our fundamental values.  Corrupting an election to keep one's self in office is perhaps the most  abusive and destructive violation of one's oath of office that I can  imagine. 

  In the last several weeks, I have received numerous calls and texts.  Many demanded, in their words, that I ``stand with the team.'' I can  assure you that thought has been very much in my mind. You see, I  support a great deal of what the President has done. I have voted with  him 80 percent of the time. But my promise before God to apply  impartial justice required that I put my personal feelings and  political biases aside. Were I to ignore the evidence that has been  presented and disregard what I believe my oath and the Constitution  demands of me for the sake of a partisan end, it would, I fear, expose  my character to history's rebuke and the censure of my own conscience. 

  I am aware that there are people in my party and in my State who will  strenuously disapprove of my decision, and in some quarters, I will be  vehemently denounced. I am sure to hear abuse from the President and  his supporters. Does anyone seriously believe that I would consent to  these consequences other than from an inescapable conviction that my  oath before God demanded it of me? 

  I sought to hear testimony from John Bolton, not only because I  believe he could add context to the charges but also because I hoped  that what he might say could raise reasonable doubt and thus remove  from me the awful obligation to vote for impeachment. 

  Like each Member of this deliberative body, I love our country. I  believe that our Constitution was inspired by providence. I am  convinced that freedom itself is dependent on the strength and vitality  of our national character. 

  As it is with each Senator, my vote is an act of conviction. We have  come to different conclusions, fellow Senators, but I trust we have all  followed the dictates of our conscience. 

  I acknowledge that my verdict will not remove the President from  office. The results of this Senate court will, in fact, be appealed to  a higher court--the judgment of the American people. Voters will make  the final decision, just as the President's lawyers have implored. My  vote will likely be in the minority in the Senate. But irrespective of  these things, with my vote, I will tell my children and their children  that I did my duty to the best of my ability, believing that my country  expected it of me. 

  I will only be one name among many--no more, no less--to future  generations of Americans who look at the record of this trial. They  will note merely that I was among the Senators  who determined that what the President did was wrong, grievously wrong. 

  We are all footnotes at best in the annals of history, but in the  most powerful Nation on Earth, the Nation conceived in liberty and  justice, that distinction is enough for any citizen. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT