Letter to the President - Romney, Tester Urge Trump Administration to Ensure Robust Oversight of Pandemic Recovery


Dear President Trump:

All across America, our citizens are facing an unprecedented crisis in the fight against COVID-19. In the last several weeks, Congress has attempted to match the urgency of situation by allocating more than $2trillion in additional resources to assist the many actions already undertaken by governments at every level. Weurge your administration to take every needed step to assure those resources are delivered to those who needthem by providing strong oversight and accountability.This will require an extraordinary effort to immediately update its protocols to ensure that appropriated fundsare targeted to the most affected businesses and individuals. It will also require every agency review andupdate your procedures as appropriate to prevent and identify any incidents of waste, fraud and abuse. It willalso require cooperation with oversight authorities, including both Congress and inspectors general. We wereencouraged to see the appointment of Glenn Fine to serve as chair of the Pandemic Response AccountabilityCommittee, along with other inspectors general who will lead the oversight effort.Specifically, the CARES Act established a Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery withinthe Treasury to "conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of the making, purchase,management, and sale of loans, loan guarantees, and other investments made by the Treasury Secretary." TheSpecial Inspector General is also tasked with keeping Congress informed through quarterly reports that detailall of the loans, loan guarantees, or other investments. We expect that the Special Inspector General will fulfillits statutory responsibilities, and look forward to working with your administration to ensure robust oversightof taxpayer dollars.One of the most important steps the administration can take in the short term to ensure oversight is bynominating individuals to fill key vacancies. According to the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrityand Efficiency (CIGIE), there are several agencies at the cabinet level that lack permanent inspectors general.This list includes agencies with major responsibilities to implement the COVID-19 relief response, such as theDepartment of Health and Human Services, Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Education.Inspectors general play a vital watchdog role, and their permanence would give Congress, and the widerpublic, more trust that these dollars are being spent in the most effective way possible to best blunt theeconomic impact from COVID-19.This is a critical time in our nation's history and each agency plays a vital role in our recovery. With trillionsof taxpayer dollars being spent, it is critically important for the Administration to ensure full transparency andwillingness for independent oversight. As you work to implement COVID-19 legislation, we ask that youprovide Congress a detailed plan on how the government plans to execute these funds and what accountabilitymeasures are being put in place to ensure our taxpayer dollars are being spent efficiently and effectively.Thank you for your urgent attention to this matter. We look forward to your swift response. Sincerely,