Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, countless Utahns have stepped up to serve  our State and country during the COVID-19 pandemic. Their actions are  inspiring, and they help save lives. I rise today to recognize some of  these great efforts. I prefer to name individuals and their particular  circumstances, but because of the tens of thousands--even hundreds of  thousands--of people who participated, I am going to talk about groups  and organizations. 

  Healthcare workers from our State travel across our State and also  across our country. Intermountain Healthcare deployed two 100-person  response teams to New York City hospitals to help handle the surge of  patients there. Physicians, nurses, respiratory therapists, and other  healthcare professionals were there for weeks, oftentimes 24-hour days. 

  In partnership with Intermountain, University of Utah Health ramped  up the State's lab services, medication trials, and testing capacity,  including the HERO project, which has tested more than 10,000 Utahns to  assess the disease spread throughout the State. The university's  Wellness Bus brought mobile testing to underserved areas across our  State. Groups around campuses are using 3-D printers to produce  hundreds of face shields per day for the healthcare community. 

  The businesses of Silicon Slopes have helped expand State testing  efforts through the ``Test Utah Challenge.'' Tens of thousands have  been tested through this program. The Utah Manufacturers Association  and its membership and its businesses have spearheaded the effort to  provide a mask, free of charge, to every citizen of our State. 

  The World Trade Center Utah has partnered with my team to help make  sure that local employers are able to access small business loans and  other Federal relief programs. 

  The Utah Food Bank is using mobile pantries to safely distribute food  on a regular basis throughout the State and is teaming up with  organizations like the Larry H. Miller Group to host statewide food  drives. 

  The Utah Farm Bureau has purchased food from local farmers and has  then helped to distribute it to families in need. 

  Project Protect, in partnership with Intermountain, University of  Utah Health, and Latter-day Saint Charities, has produced face shields,  masks, and gowns for frontline caregivers throughout the State. To  date, more than 30,000 volunteers have sewn more than 3 million masks. 

  These are just some of the many extraordinary organizations and  individuals that have come together to help their neighbors. Our  State's pioneering heritage is a big part of what makes Utah a model of  what we can do when we work together as a community. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT