Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Chair, I rise today, again, as my colleagues  have, to ask for support for the final FY26 appropriations package. It  completes the culmination of a lot of hard work from a lot of folks who  fulfilled their commitment to the American people.

As chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services,  Education, and Related Agencies, I was honored to lead the effort to  rein in spending and secure an America First future, while also  ensuring that these bills provide for funding for critical projects and  growth around our districts.

I thank Chairman Cole for his longstanding leadership on the Labor- HHS bill and express my appreciation for Ranking Member DeLauro, who  tirelessly champions her priorities and so many things in this bill. It  is an honor to work with both of them as we have moved this bill  forward.

The bill on the floor today balances the need for responsible fiscal  stewardship while maintaining key investments in biomedical research,  schools, and public health.

Thanks to negotiations on a bicameral, bipartisan level, funding  decisions have moved through a very deliberate, very Member-driven  process that puts an emphasis on transparency, accountability, and  timely consideration.

This bill demonstrates the will of the American people who want new  priorities and accountability in government, including priorities that  make America healthy again and make America skilled again.

Investments in this bill are directed to where they matter most: into  lifesaving biomedical research and resilient medical supply chains,  classrooms, and training that prepare the next generation for success.

Enactment and passage of this full-year appropriations bill is vital  to implementing provisions that keep our Nation strong, secure, and  competitive.

In closing, I thank Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro, again.  I also equally thank the committee staff on both sides of the aisle,  majority and minority.

For the majority: Kathryn Salmon, James Redstone, Emily Goff, Kirk  Boyle, Jaime Varela, along with Megan Medley on my staff, who has  worked very diligently on this bill, as well.

For the minority: Stephen Steigleder, who has already been mentioned  but needs to be mentioned again, Philip Tizzani, Laurie Mignone, and  Jackie Kilroy.

There are so many others that we could name, but those are the folks  that were on the front line.

Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this bill. This is a  good bill.