Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I rise today, as my colleagues are, in  support of the FY26 appropriations package. As has been said, it  provides the full-year funding for five out of the remaining six  appropriation bills.

Unfortunately, funding these bills is not optional. It is part of our  constitutional requirements, and we must act on our commitment to the  American people. With this bill before us today, the government will  continue operating effectively and provide stability for the American  people.

The path forward in this legislation reflects President Trump's  negotiations and direction to avoid a long-term partial shutdown and  keep the government operating without further disruptions.

As chairman of the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and  Related Agencies Subcommittee, I am honored to work with the ranking  member of this subcommittee, Ms. DeLauro, who also serves as ranking  member of the full committee, in making sure that what we do in this  legislation provides funding for critical projects that support jobs  and local growth in our districts.

The Labor-Health and Human Services bill on the floor today balances  the need for responsible fiscal stewardship while maintaining key  investments in biomedical research, schools, and public health.

Thanks to the negotiations on a bicameral, bipartisan level, funding  decisions have moved through a deliberative, Member-driven process that  emphasizes transparency, accountability, and timely consideration.

The Labor-HHS bill before us demonstrates the will of the American  people who want new priorities and accountability in government,  including priorities to Make America Healthy Again and Make America  Skilled Again.

Investments in this bill are directed to where they matter most: into  lifesaving biomedical research and resilient medical supply chains,  classrooms and training that prepare the next generation for success,  and rural hospitals and primary care to end the chronic disease  epidemic.

These measures are part of an agreement that keeps the FY26 spending  levels below the level projected under the current continuing  resolution, delivering real savings for the American taxpayers.  Enactment and passage of full-year appropriations are vital.

Madam Speaker, in conclusion, I thank the staff on both sides, the  majority and the minority, for all of their hard work in getting this  bill across the finish line. Once again, I urge my colleagues to  support the underlying bill.