Dark Days


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, still I rise.

I rise, Mr. Speaker, as a liberated Democrat.

I rise, Mr. Speaker, unbought, unbossed, unafraid.

I rise, Mr. Speaker, as the only Member of the House of  Representatives to be removed from a joint session of Congress and,  thereafter, to be censured. I have been censured, Mr. Speaker, but I  have not been silenced. Censured, but not silenced.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in agreement with the President. This is,  indeed, a dark day. Yesterday was a dark day--dark days because of  lives that have been lost. This day, the USA Today has published an  article styled: ``24 years after 9/11, alliances fractured,'' referring  to what happened on 9/11, the lives that were lost to terrorism.

Then, Mr. Speaker, there is another article that I would call to your  attention in The Washington Times. It is styled: Growing leftwing  violence blamed for deadly shooting.

Mr. Speaker, I wish to address violence. I wish to address violence,  and I wish to start by indicating that, yesterday, I published a tweet.  This tweet, Mr. Speaker, indicated, in essence, that this is the time  for all persons of good will to take a stand against violence and that  persons should do this because Dr. King was right, and his words are  right today:

``We must all learn to live together as brothers,'' he said. I would  add: and sisters.

We must all learn to live together as brothers and sisters, or we  will perish together as fools.

I did not know Mr. Kirk. I don't believe I have ever met him. I meet  a lot of people, so I may have, but I don't believe that I have.

Here is what I know about him: He was a human being. He was a child  of the same creator who created me. He had every right to express his  views. He had every right to differ with me and anybody else as much as  he wanted to. He had every right to be where he was and to speak on the  issues of importance to him in ways that I might not agree with, but he  had a right to do this.

He had a right to life. He had a right to say these things in venues  across the length and breadth of this country and, I would say, across  the globe. These were his rights.

He had the right to be where he was and to do what he was doing.

I don't know him as a person who has said things that I would always  agree with, but I want his wife and his children to know that I am  saddened by his demise.

I am saddened by the fact that he was assassinated. I am saddened by  it. It is painful. I regret that it happened, and if I could have  prevented it, I would have.

I don't believe that we should have a country that somehow would have  people lose their lives, be assassinated, and then people gloat and  celebrate an assassination.

I ask today: What did Mr. Kirk and the victims of 9/11 and the  persons who have died in churches while praying, persons who were  killed as they were praying in various religious institutions, children  who have been murdered in schools, what did they all have in common?  The one thing that they all had in common, and there may be others, is  that they were innocent people. They were innocent people. They were  innocent people going about their business. None of them were breaking  the law.

This is bigger than any one of us or any group of us. It is bigger  than any person's religiosity. It is bigger than where you happen to be  at a given time. This is about the right to life and the right to speak  freely. It is about what the Constitution affords all of us in this  country and about the necessity for every one of us to protect these  constitutional rights.

This is about people who have been fortunate enough to have been born  in the United States of America or people who have come to the United  States of America. It is about people who just happen to be passing  through.

It is about the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,  and especially life, because without life, you cannot have the liberty  and the pursuit of happiness.

All of these people have in common the fact that they were innocent  and the fact that they have lost their lives, some to terrorism,  persons who came to this country to impose and inflict terrorism upon  people, and some from terrorists within the country, some from people  who were just crazed, some from people who were persons who should not  have had the opportunity to have the type of weaponry that they had.  But they were all persons who were innocent. They were all persons who  had this right to life that I stand for.

Today, I believe it appropriate that I first say a prayer, and then  after the prayer, I will make some comments about current  circumstances.

I don't ask everyone to pray with me. You pray with me if you desire.  If you choose to do other things, then do those other things, but I  pray this prayer for my country.

Most Gracious Creator, we know You by many names, but we also know  that by any name You are the creator of all that was, is, and ever  shall be. By any name, You created air, the breath of life. By any  name, You created water, the elixir of life. By any name, You created  the star that we call Sun, the light and warmth of life. By any name,  You created the terra firma that we call Earth, the foundation and the  home of life. And by any name, I beg that You would understand and pray  that You would give me the courage to not only speak truth to power, to  speak it in a righteous way, to have the courage to do all that I can  to protect all of  Your creation. I ask You to give me the strength as I speak today to  talk about the circumstances that have created concerns that have to be  addressed. I beg that You would give me the strength in Your name, by  whatever name I make this appeal.

Now, Mr. Speaker, allow me to address CNN. Yes, I am a Congressperson  who believes that you have to speak truth not only to power but also  truth about power.

I want to address CNN. I understand that when you do this, you are  not likely to get an invitation to be on their airwaves. I understand  it. They have the power to mute by simply denying you access, but I  just thank God for C-SPAN, unfiltered C-SPAN. C-SPAN does not mute. C- SPAN does not conclude that because you are a person who will speak  truth to power and about power that you shouldn't have access to the  airwaves.

I am going to talk about C-SPAN now because it was on C-SPAN this day  that I heard one of their reporters indicate that we should, not in  these exact words perhaps, but that we should tone down the language,  and indicate that we should probably be concerned about certain words,  two were mentioned.

We should be concerned about saying ``fascism,'' language that is  incitive is the way it was put--perhaps not in these exact words, but  incitive language, language that would cause people to do ugly things,  incitive language, ``fascism.''

Then, this reporter mentioned another word, allegedly a word that  would create, what I would call, some spark within a person that might  drive a person to say something or do something that would be harmful,  incitive language. Well, that word was ``racism.''

Now, this reporter mentioned fascism and racism on CNN. Yes, I am  going to continue to demean CNN for what they have done. I know that  this reporter meant well.

By the way, I have respect for the reporter, but I know what is  happening at CNN and how CNN has become a status quo news source. To  maintain the status quo, CNN will do things that, quite frankly, don't  allow us to make the change necessary to benefit all Americans.

This reporter mentioned these two words, ``fascism'' and ``racism,''  as incitive terms. Interesting to note, the reporter did not say  ``anti-Semitism.'' By the way, I fight anti-Semitism every day of my  life. I am antithetical to it, and I am going to fight it. I think we  have to end anti-Semitism. I am going to fight to end anti-Semitism,  but on CNN, ``anti-Semitism'' is a word that you can use to address the  anti-Semite and to deal with those persons who are perpetrating and  perpetuating anti-Semitism, but you can't use ``racism'' on CNN.

``Racism'' is an incitive word. CNN would have us end anti-Semitism  and allow us to address it in all of its forms. These are all forms of  invidious discrimination. It is all right to address anti-Semitism, but  not racism.

If you are going to talk about racism, you have to use softer  language because the word ``racism'' is incitive, according to CNN.

Well, CNN is saying to the world, they want to end anti-Semitism, as  I do, but they are saying they want to manage racism. CNN manages  racism by not allowing it to be addressed and confronted to the same  extent as they would allow anti-Semitism to be addressed.

Again, I am antithetical to, I am going to fight anti-Semitism, but I  am also going to fight racism. I am not going to kneel. I am not going  to cower. I am not going to back off. Racism has to be fought. It has  to be dealt with because it, too, exists in this country.

We cannot pretend that racism doesn't exist. If we are going to  acknowledge invidious discrimination, we have to acknowledge it in all  of its forms, and I would hope that CNN would get a better  understanding of what it is doing by managing racism and doing what it  can to eliminate anti-Semitism.

It is my belief that people of good will can fight both racism and  anti-Semitism, and if we are going to do it, we have got to speak truth  about power. We have got to speak truth to those people who have  already concluded that the loss of Mr. Kirk, the conservative activist,  as is stated in The Washington Times, already concluded that this was  some leftwing person, and then they used plural language and say  ``they,'' the leftwing.

If it was a leftwing person--I don't put any special boundaries  around that person--whoever it is, ought to be punished to the fullest  extent that the law allows. It doesn't matter what their party  affiliation is. But what does matter is you shouldn't jump to  conclusions. We don't have the empirical evidence of what happened,  last I heard. Maybe it has been announced just recently. I am talking  about the authorities. For people to come to the floor of the House and  make statements about how leftwing people have caused this to manifest  itself, Mr. Kirk's demise, without any evidence of it, and for CNN to  infer in some way that ``racism'' is a term that may have promoted what  happened to this man; they are wrong. They are wrong to do it. Members  of Congress who do it are wrong.

To blame the harm that was caused to some person who is said to be on  the left or on the right, that is wrong. You can't blame people in a  wholesale fashion for things that happen to some individual person.  Left or right, you can't blame everyone.

You can blame the person who did this. If you want to talk about  language that precipitates this kind of behavior, language that may in  some way influence people, then you are going to have to start at the  top. You are going to have to start at the top. You are going to have  to start with a President of the United States who told police  officers: You don't have to be nice when you are arresting people. The  President of the United States told people at one of his rallies that  they could assault someone who was there and not to worry about it. The  President of the United States says ugly things about people. The  President of the United States came right here, and right at that  podium just below the Speaker called Democrats lunatics. It was the  same night that I was evicted from the joint session of Congress, the  only person ever to be evicted. The President was right there at that  podium. That President at the podium said that the Democrats were  lunatics. Is that incitive language?

I say to CNN, here is what is interesting about it. You allow the  President's language to be spoken, but you won't allow people to come  on your station and talk about the racism that exists, and it does.

If we are going to talk about how these things are developed, speak  in terms of individuals. The President of the United States of America  has decided that the Department of Defense will be the Department of  War now, taking us a quantum leap backwards in time to when it was  previously the Department of War, but we had the good sense to  understand that it would be better to be a Department of Defense than  to be warmongers.

The same President who says he wants the Nobel Peace Prize changes  the Department of Defense to the Department of War. The same President  who has promoted what is happening to the Palestinians in Gaza; who has  gone so far as to say: Let's just buy that property or take it and make  it some sort of resort. The same President who went so far as to say to  Mr. Netanyahu: Yes, you can go on, you can do what you need to do. It  was not in those exact words, but that was the implication. This is the  same President who wants the Nobel Peace Prize.

I cannot believe that the Nobel Committee, the Nobel authorities  would ever give a person who has behaved as this President has--who  wants a Department of War, who has sanctioned the collective punishment  against the Palestinians, sanctioned the ethnic cleansing against the  Palestinians, sanctioned ethnic cleansing, collective punishment--the  Nobel Peace Prize.

I know you are waiting for me to say the other word. Yes, I am going  to say it. This President has sanctioned the most heinous of crimes  against humanity, and those are crimes against humanity that are being  committed on the Palestinians. He has sanctioned the most heinous  crimes against humanity, and he wants the Nobel Peace Prize. I say to  the President, you are not deserving of the Nobel Peace Prize.

To those people who want to blame the leftwing for things, if a  leftwing person has done something, I am not opposed to that person  being blamed. I will blame that person. However, don't blame all people  who happen to be on what you call the leftwing for what is happening.  Don't do that. Explain what the person has done.

I came to this floor. I am here in this House now, and I am giving  you explicit things. Tell me what the so-called leftwing has done. They  speak in these broad, general terms about people without giving the  explicit evidence of the thing that they claim that they have done.  Speak with specificities. Have the courage to speak with specificities.  They don't have the courage to speak with specificities. They just want  to use a broad brush.

Yes, I am going to say it, the President doesn't deserve the Nobel  Peace Prize because he has sanctioned genocide in Gaza. The world sees  it, and this Congress sees it, with not one resolution to condemn the  genocide taking place in Gaza, not one. There won't be one. There won't  be one. Not one.

Few people are going to come to this floor and say it even exists. We  are going to manage genocide in Gaza and condemn what is happening in  Ukraine. How can you condemn what is happening in Ukraine and not  condemn what is happening in Gaza? You can't do it, not in a righteous  way, not in a righteous way.

The Congress of the United States of America ought to be on record  condemning what is happening to the Palestinians. For those who would  claim that they have no reason to be, that this is just something that  we should allow the Israelis and the Palestinians to resolve, here is  my retort. Your tax dollars, your tax dollars are fueling the genocide  that is taking place. If you wanted to do something about it, you  wouldn't fund it. Those planes are our planes. The munitions are our  munitions.

Now, someone is going to say that I am somehow creating the fervor,  the incitive response that may take place because I speak the truth.  Truth has, in and of itself, an absolute defense. Who can deny? Who  will deny in good faith that what is happening in Gaza is something  other than genocide? It is genocide. We have the blood of what is  happening to those innocent people on our hands.

I started by talking about innocent people. They are among the  innocents. We can't care more about some babies than other babies. We  will allow the killing of Palestinian babies and maybe every now and  then say something about how wrong this is, but we are not going to say  that about other babies. We want to make sure that people understand  that those babies have the right to life, that those babies should grow  up, and they should have an opportunity to succeed in the world.  Palestinian babies and children haven't been to school in years now.  What is going to happen to them?

We have now allowed Mr. Netanyahu to go into Palestine, into Gaza,  and go to Gaza City. It is obvious that he is trying to destroy it.  Yes, he is trying to destroy it. There will be no home for the  Palestinians. They have already destroyed roads, bridges, schools,  hospitals. Mr. Netanyahu doesn't want peace. He wants all of Palestine.  I speak in specificities, all of Palestine. He doesn't want peace.

In fact, the Knesset just last year took a vote, and the vote was to  say in explicit terms there will be no Palestinian state from the river  to the sea, from the river to the sea, not in those exact words. They  said west of the Jordan. That is the river, and west of the Jordan is  Gaza. From the river to the sea, west of Jordan, West Bank, from the  river to the sea.

If you say ``from the river to the sea,'' you will be sanctioned by  this Congress. We can't say that. The Knesset in Israel can pass in  that body legislation saying that there will be no Palestinian state  from the river to the sea.

Here is my point. From the river to the sea, Palestine and Israel  must be free, both of them, two states. I stand for a two-state  solution. There are others who stand for evicting the Palestinians,  sending them to some other place. This is their land, their home. They  have got every right to live where they live, and this war has gone on  too long, taken too many lives.

What happened at the genesis of this with the attack on Israel was  wrong. It was sinful. It was harmful. It was terrorism. It was  something that merited a response, but it didn't merit collective  punishment. It didn't merit ethnic cleansing, and it didn't merit  genocide. Those are crimes against humanity.

Today, dear friends, I will mourn the death of Mr. Kirk and all of  the persons who have died in their places of worship, killed at the  hands of assassins, all of the children who have died in schools. It is  about all of them and all of the people who died on 9/11.

Any person who is on the left who has committed a crime against  another person, violence against another person, I condemn you. Any  person on the right who has committed a crime against another person, I  condemn you. I speak with specificities about the incitive commentary  emanating from the highest office in the United States of America. We  see it, but we ignore it.

I refuse to ignore it. I don't believe in committing crimes. I have  spoken from this very podium, this very area about peaceful protests. I  have indicated to people, no violence. I am a person who does not  promote violence. There are people who will say that I promote violence  by fighting racism. That is not promoting violence. That is ending the  violence that racism perpetrates on people, and I am going to continue  to fight racism.

I have stood right here at this podium and talked about peaceful  protest and how we must engage in peaceful protest. Peaceful protest is  what got me to Congress. Most of the people who are minorities in  Congress, somehow peaceful protest has benefited them.

If I could cite a single moment in time, it would be at the Edmund  Pettus Bridge, 1965, on what we now call Bloody Sunday, because at that  moment when they were trying to cross and they were beaten, this is  violence we are talking about, with specificity, I might add. Date:  1965. Place: Edmund Pettus Bridge, Selma, Alabama. People wanted to  peacefully march.

My dear brother, John Lewis, told me the story of how he thought he  was going to die on that bridge, how they were beaten all the way back  to the church where they started.

At the moment that happened and the moments that followed, when  Lyndon Johnson was accorded the opportunity to sign the Voting Rights  Act of 1965, when he signed that Voting Rights Act of 1965, when he  signed it. Yes, he signed it with ink. Yes, it was a pen.

Mr. Speaker, it was written with the blood at the Edmund Pettus  Bridge. That is why it is called Bloody Sunday. It was on a Sunday that  it occurred. It is Bloody Sunday.

Mr. Speaker, I speak in specificities. When he signed it, yes, there  were only six Members of Congress who were of African ancestry that we  know of. There may have been some others that we didn't know of because  of the definition of how someone becomes a person of African ancestry,  their blood and that sort of thing. We knew there were six. There were  five persons who were Latinos. There were four persons who were Asian.

Since the signing of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, section 2 of the  Voting Rights Act, section 4 of voting right act, section 5 of Voting  Rights Act. All of these in concert, working together, we acquired more  than 60 people of African ancestry in this Congress. More than 50  persons in this Congress are Latinos. More than 20 persons in this  Congress have Asian heritage.

It is the Voting Rights Act. Yes, that Voting Rights Act was there to  deal with racism. It says so in the act. It says race. We can't  discriminate against people based on race. It also goes into some other  aspects of discrimination, all of them invidious, but we can't do it.

We have to say ``racism'' if we are going to talk about the case  involving race. CNN doesn't want that to be said. If this were anti- Semitism, we could say that anti-Semitism is being imposed. We could  fight it and use that language. We can't use ``racism.'' By the way, I  would support saying ``anti-Semitism.'' I would. I do support saying  it. We have to be able to say ``racism,'' too.

That is what is happening now across this country, especially in  Texas, where the President of the United States--specificities--had the  Justice Department to send a letter to the Attorney General of the  State of Texas, indicating that four districts, all of which had  minority representation, four districts should be redrawn because the  State of Texas drew them specifically such that minorities would be  elected.

Then the Attorney General from the State of Texas had a retort. He  refuted what the Justice Department said. He said: No, our lines were  drawn for partisan advantage.

That is lawful. If you draw the lines with race in mind, then that is  unlawful. We can't draw lines to prevent people from acquiring a  representation based upon race. We can't do that.

The Attorney General refuted it. That should have ended it; but, no,  it didn't. Notwithstanding the evidence that the Attorney General  presented, indicating that they didn't do what the letter from the  Justice Department alleges, Texas went on.

What Texas has done is racist. We can't say that on CNN. If we say  that it is racist on CNN, we become persona non grata. We are not going  to be back on CNN. If we are there, the host would send little signals  to let people know that this was something that was imposed and not  something that was desired.

CNN is a status quo news network. I am not a status quo  Representative. I want to change the status quo. I don't want to manage  the status quo. CNN does. CNN wants to manage racism and eliminate  anti-Semitism.

I want my dear friends to know that what Texas has done is racist,  and I am using specificities. I have called to the attention of the  public those two letters, and they are available.

Mr. Speaker, I have to do what I do. I don't ask others to follow me.  I am uniquely qualified to do what I do. I only ask those others who  know that I am speaking truth: Don't be the one to try to trip me up.  Just let me do what I can do. My friends will do as best they can to do  what they can do. Together, we will get things done.

We have to be truthful about our circumstances, or we will never end  them. They will always remain the same.

I close, my dear friends, my dear brothers and sisters--and I say  this because, like Dr. King, I believe that there is but one race and  that is the human race. Like Dr. King, I believe that all persons have  been created equal, as has been indicated and elucidated in many  documents that we hold near and dear in this country. I believe in one  race. That is the human race.

My dear friends, as a human being, I knew Mr. Kirk. I know the  humanity that he had. I know the decency that should have been afforded  him. I know that what happened to him was wrong, and it doesn't matter  who did it. It was wrong.

If it turns out it is a leftwing person, as defined by people, that  is wrong. I am not going to stand for that. Quite frankly, I don't know  any Democrats that would stand for that. It doesn't matter. We aren't  going to say the person shouldn't be punished.

I speak in specificities. I don't come to the floor and paint with a  broad brush. I don't think all of my colleagues on the other side are  racist. I don't label all of them as rightwing nuts. If I see someone  do something, I am going to call them out. I am not going to label  everybody.

Mr. Speaker, I knew his humanity. I knew that he had every right to  say what he was saying. He had every right to say things that I would  never agree with. He had every right, if ever given the opportunity, to  vote against me. That is not a reason for anybody to impose violence  upon him.

He had every right to do these things and walk away and go back home  to his family. He should have spent the night either with his family or  knowing that his family was secure and they knew that he was secure. He  had every right to raise those babies.

This was a wrong that was perpetrated. I want to go further and say  the people who have been killed in their places of worship had every  right to worship as they chose and to do it in their various places of  worship.

Children have the right to go to school. Their parents have the right  to pick them up at the end of the school day.

I don't label the attempt on Congresswoman Giffords' life as a  rightwing plot. I don't do that.

I believe that people are responsible for their behavior. On a day  such as this, I don't know that we ought to allow this to go unnoticed  when there is a headline that reads: Growing leftwing violence blamed  for deadly shooting.

I believe in specificities. I believe in the decency that human  beings should afford each other.

I am going to continue to do that because Dr. King was and is right.  We do have to learn to live together, all of us, as brothers and  sisters, or we will all perish together as fools.