Liberty and Justice for All


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise, a proud, liberated  Democrat, unbought, unbossed, and unafraid.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today because I believe in the Pledge of  Allegiance.

I am known to wear this tie that has what I consider to be a meaning  that expresses much of what the pledge is all about. There are many  people who have said to me that the tie is old, that it appears to be  soiled and stained, but it is my favorite tie. It is a tie that I will  never surrender. It is a tie that means something to me because it  stands for something.

It stands for the Pledge of Allegiance. More appropriately, it stands  for some specific words within that pledge. Those words are: ``Liberty  and justice for all.''

``Liberty and justice for all.''

I do pledge allegiance to liberty and justice for all, and I rise  today to thank the courageous persons who, on just yesterday, took a  stand for liberty and justice for all.

I rise to thank the 140 persons who, on yesterday, voted to support  H. Res. 939, House Resolution 939. This resolution, H. Res. 939,  impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United States, for high  crimes and misdemeanors.

I rise to thank the 140 persons who supported this resolution.

I rise to thank the 47 persons who did not oppose what we were doing  but chose to simply say: I will vote ``present.''

That was a significant vote, as well. I rise to thank them.

All of these persons had the courage to say to Donald John Trump:  Things are changing in this country. You are likely to face a vote of  218 more persons who would vote to have you impeached.

I rise to thank them for their courage, but I also rise with my cane  in hand to thank two people. I want to thank John Bonifaz. John  Bonifaz. John Bonifaz. Constitutional scholar, John Bonifaz.

There are many constitutional scholars in this country. Let me harken  back just a moment to make this point perspicuously clear.

There were many people who understood what invidious discrimination  was, known as segregation but, in fact, was racism. There were many who  knew what it was. They understood it. They could articulate it well.  They were great orators, but they had something that set them apart  from Dr. King. It was a lack of courage.

Dr. King was set apart from the intellectuals and great orators of  his time because he had courage. It was his courage that allowed him to  go to Birmingham and, from the Birmingham jail, to write a letter that  explained why the movement existed and why it was so important.

It was courage.

John Bonifaz, constitutional scholar par excellence. John Bonifaz has  something that many of the constitutional scholars just don't have.  They are brilliant. They can elucidate and explain to you the  Federalist Papers in great detail. They can tell you why you shouldn't  or why you should do something, but they don't have the courage of John  Bonifaz--the courage to speak not only truth to power. You can speak  truth to power by simply saying: Power, there is a problem, and we need  to address it.

John will speak truth about power, which means you go to power, and  you say: Power, there is a problem, and you are it. You are it.

John Bonifaz has that kind of power. John Bonifaz has that kind of  courage.

John Bonifaz, I thank you for what you have done to help me move  impeachment to the floor of the House of Representatives for a vote. I  want history to know who you were. I want people to know that you left  big tracks--big tracks--in the sands of time. I want people to know  that you came from one direction and that you proceeded to another, a  righteous direction. I want people to know who you are.

I want people to know who Jessica Denson is, who is the mother and  founder of the Removal Coalition; who believes that impeachment,  conviction, and removal is part of the process, but it is also the  solution.

Jessica Denson is a courageous woman--a courageous woman who has a  voice that is sometimes amazing to me in terms of how she so clearly  articulates the issues of our time.

I want people to know that she had the courage to be there when we  were in front of the Lincoln Memorial--to be there--to be the key, the  cornerstone, of the movement that caused us to get to the Lincoln  Memorial, which she was there to support but also to push for  impeachment, conviction, and removal. She is truly one of the great  patriots of our time.

I thank you for your courage.

I also want to thank the millions of people now who are associating  themselves with this courage of Bonifaz; with this courage of Denson;  with this courage of the 140 who, on yesterday, voted to support H.  Res. 939; with this courage of the 47 who also took a position that I  appreciate greatly.

There is courage. I have to mention courage because these things  don't happen simply because you want them to. It is not easy to do what  we did yesterday. It is not. There are all sorts of forces,  crosscurrents, winds, and all sorts of energy pushing back: Don't do  it.

Let me pause for a moment and say this: Those who are antithetical to  my views like to say that I--Al Green has gone rogue. It was in the  papers today. Al Green is coming before Congress, and he has his cane,  and he is just waving his cane.

That is what they say. They would have me become a person who is just  another person from some dark place who doesn't know what he is talking  about, so they talk about waving my cane.

Yes, I am waving my cane, and I am pointing it straight at all of you  who are antithetical to righteousness, antithetical to what we did  yesterday in bringing these Articles of Impeachment to a vote. I am  pointing my cane at you.

I am pointing at those people who are a part of the news media who  will bring me up and say things about me but won't allow me to respond  to them. You know who you are. But, as I was saying, I want people to  know about this courage and the pushback and the antithetical forces. I  want people to know about it, and I want people to know that I  understand what happened yesterday.

It was comparable to what happened at the Edmund Pettus Bridge.  Yesterday was a seminal moment in time. It was comparable to what  happened. It was comparable to what happened when John Lewis explained  it to me. What many people never discuss is the fact that there were  many people who thought that you shouldn't go to the Edmund Pettus  Bridge; it is too dangerous.

If you go to the Edmund Pettus Bridge, you could be hurt. You know  what the constabulary will do. There were people who warned them,  admonished them, pleaded with some of them, saying: Those people will  hurt you. These people are inspired by hate. There are some evil people  among them.

It was courage, however, that said: Go on to the Edmund Pettus  Bridge, go on to the Edmund Pettus Bridge.

Not only did they go, but when they reached that crest, they could  see a point where the constabulary was there, some on horseback, and  they knew at that point that some of those people who admonished them  were right, but they marched on. They did not allow fear to prevent  them from doing a righteous thing, even when they knew the consequences  could be harmful.

I keep saying it, and I will say it until I make my transition. John  Lewis told me that he thought he was going to die on that bridge, but  he marched on. Yesterday, in spite of a lot of admonitions, people  marched on. People marched on, and they took a courageous vote: a vote  that is going to be marked as a seminal moment in time, a vote that  will have an impact on the rest of time because it sent a message to a  reckless, ruthless, lawless President indicating that your time in  office as a reckless, ruthless, lawless President, your days are  numbered.

No one wants to see you harmed physically, that is not the case. But  there are people who do not believe that you should serve out this term  of office given your behavior in office. There are people who believe  that you ought to be impeached, you ought to be convicted, and you  ought to be removed.

I am one of the people. I am one of the people. We, the people of the  removal movement, believe that you, sir,  should be an example of what a righteous government will do when a  person who would subvert the Constitution has slithered his way into  office.

You, sir, should be the example. You, sir, by your behavior, by your  actions, by your words, by your deeds, you, sir, should not hold the  title President of the United States of America, and you should be  removed.

I know that there are some who would want to wait, well, he will  leave office in a couple years, and after he leaves office in a couple  of years, we will get back to our normal lives. Not the case. This man  is having a long-term impact on American society. Not the case.

There are others who want to mimic him. There are many Trumps--not  many in terms of numbers, although I could argue that there are large  numbers, but there are many in terms of being smaller now who would  like to enlarge their persona, enlarge their image, enlarge their  reach, enlarge their power, many Trumps who want to be another Donald  Trump. They are out there, and we need to do something to let people  know that when you behave as he has behaved, justice will be served.

Yesterday, the sword of justice swung across the House of  Representatives, and it left its indelible mark. People know now that  we mean business. Yes, we mean business.

To the millions of people who have joined the impeach, convict, and  removal coalition, I thank you for being there. I especially thank the  persons who were on The Mall at the Lincoln Memorial.

Now, I would like to respond to the question, if I haven't already:  Why are you doing this, Al Green? That really is not the question.

The question really is: Why wouldn't I do it? Why wouldn't I do it,  when I have in my hand language that motivates me to do it?

Let me read what I bear in my hand. It says here Dick Cheney's  statement. For further edification, that would be Vice President Dick  Cheney. This is his statement on Donald Trump's statement, talking  about Donald Trump. This is something that NPR published September 6,  2024, per Vice President Dick Cheney.

By the way, he was a Republican. I need not say it, but I think that  it adds to what I am about to say. I am a Democrat. I think we were in  different places politically, but when it comes to the country, we are  in the same place. We were in the same place then, and we are in the  same place now.

Here is what he said: ``In our Nation's 248-year history, there has  never been an individual who is a greater threat'' to American  democracy--correction--``a greater threat to our Republic than Donald  Trump.''

Let me repeat it. ``In our Nation's 248-year history, there has never  been an individual who is a greater threat to our Republic than Donald  Trump.''

Then, he goes on to inspire because he says: ``As citizens, we each  have a duty''--I would add the word ``responsibility.'' ``We each have  a duty to put country above partisanship to defend our Constitution,''  to put our country above partisanship and defend our Constitution.

Those words inspire me. I believe that he is right. We have to put  country above partisanship. We have got to defend the Constitution.  That means defend liberty and justice for all, not in the Constitution,  but it is symbolic of what the Constitution represents. It means,  defend your Fifth Amendment rights, right to due process, 14th  Amendment also, defend your right to free speech, defend your right to  say that members of the military don't have to follow illegal orders.  In fact, they must not follow illegal orders. That is what he is  talking about. That is the Constitution. That is what comes out of the  Constitution, although it may not be explicated with this kind of  specificity within the Constitution, but that is it. You have got a  right to say it. Don't follow illegal orders. That is a mandate. It is  not something that is optional. You have got a right to say it. And you  have got a right to say it without having someone indicate that you  somehow have done something wrong and that you somehow ought to be  hanged.

Now, I will say more about that in just a moment. I have much to say  about that, but before I say it, I want to say this: If you, any one of  you, if I, if I threaten the President of the United States of America,  I have got a punishment here in my hand, if you are convicted under 18  U.S.C. Section 871 of threatening the President of the United States,  you can suffer consequences including up to 5 years in a Federal  prison, fines of $250,000, a permanent felony record, possible  restrictions on future employment, firearm ownership, and other rights.

Now, if I or anyone of you should indicate in some way that the  President ought to somehow receive a death sentence, or if I or one of  you should indicate that the President ought to be hanged, I guarantee  you this President would have you arrested. I guarantee you, you would  be incarcerated. I guarantee you, because you can indict a ham  sandwich, they say, you would be indicted. I guarantee you, you would  go to trial.

If you do something that is considered threatening, if you say--here  is a good word: If you say the President ought to receive death, be  punishable by death, or if you say that he ought to be hanged--as the  President has said here when he posted a third-party's post indicating,  ``hang them, Washington would,'' indicating here that their behavior  was ``seditious behavior, punishable by death.''

Now I am talking about the person who did the right thing, the  righteous thing, the lawful thing of saying to people in the military:  Don't follow illegal orders. They found themselves, not the President  but themselves, being suspect. The President who has threatened  execution, some people don't want him impeached.

Now, there are some who do, but they have various reasons for why  they can't take the stand. They can't say it. Well, I can. For all of  you who want to say it and can't say it, I am saying it for you. I am  saying he should have been impeached. I am saying that if ever there  was a President in the history of the United States of America who  should be impeached, it is Donald John Trump for what he said. He  should be impeached.

Now, there are people who will say that you do know that he went over  to FOX News, that he slithered his way over there and after being  there, he indicated that he didn't intend for anybody to be killed.  Maybe not in those exact words, but he didn't intend. He didn't intend  for that to be the case.

Do you really think that if I said the President ought to be hanged  that I could go over to FOX--well, FOX wouldn't allow me to say it, but  some news source--and say, oh, no. Forgive me. I made a mistake. It was  a slip of my tongue. No. This President would not allow it. He would  consider this a threat. I would be facing a fine. I would be facing  going to prison, but the President is with impunity, saving what  happened yesterday, with impunity making threats against judges, making  threats against Members of Congress.

Mr. Speaker, for those who say, well, that is just Congress and they  are just judges, let me tell you how it impacts your life.

If you go before one of the judges that the President has threatened  and you believe that the President's threats can make a difference,  will you question the judgment of the judge? He puts the judiciary in  question, the judgements. When he can intimidate judges to the extent  that you think judges are acting because of the President's actions  that he has taken against the judge.

This is bigger than you are as a person. It is about all of us as  people. Threatening the judiciary, threatening the independence of the  judiciary, not respecting the separation of powers, it impacts you and  me.

We all can be judged at some point. We want to believe that the judge  is going to be objective, that he is not going to be subjected, that he  is not going to or she is not going to subject her most precious  judicious thoughts to the whims of a President who is reckless,  ruthless, and lawless. That is what you want to believe.

Okay. Well, maybe that takes care of the judges, Congressman Green,  but what about Members of Congress? He is just threatening them.

Remember, we had a Member of Congress who was wounded. There was an  attempt to assassinate her. There were innocent bystanders there with  her who were harmed, deadly. It is about all of us. It is about when we  are out in the public. It is about some person taking to heart what the  President said when he said ``death,'' when he said ``hang them.'' It  is about all of us.

Mr. Speaker, I have no regrets for what I have done. Zero. I would  challenge anyone to come and stand over here or here and stand with me.  I challenge you to come and stand and point out why I shouldn't have  done what I have done, or we shouldn't have done what we have done,  meaning those who were part of the removal coalition.

Come. I challenge you. Let's talk before the world, any one of you. I  am proud of what I have done. I would do it again.

I want you to know that in doing this we are putting the country  above some people. We are. Because it is the country that contains all  of the people. All of the people are more important than some one or  two, 10 people maybe, maybe 23. More important than 23 people. It is  the country we are trying to save.

Well, how do you save the country without having control of the House  of Representatives, Al?

By showing the country that what is happening to this country is  going to cause us to dissolve into something that we have been  fighting. We are already at the point of having a person who is maybe  less than a dictator but an authoritarian, we are getting close.

When the President controls one side of the aisle that has a  majority, the Republicans in the House, when a President controls one  side of the aisle called Republicans in the Senate, when a President  has stacked the Supreme Court of the United States--yes, he stacked the  deck--and gets rulings that people never thought the Supreme Court  would render, all that is left is impeachment. That is all that is  left.

There are those who would say, well, let's just wait. Why don't we  wait. They told Dr. King to wait. One of the things that Dr. King said  in response to this notion that we must wait was: ``The time is always  right to do what is right.''

Now, I say to you what we did yesterday was not only right, it was  righteous because everything in those articles is true. It is  righteous, and we don't have constitutional scholars coming out and  saying, well, it really doesn't comply with Federalist number whatever.  That is not the argument.

The argument is this is not the time. I differ. The time, as Dr. King  put it, is always right to do what is right.

Now, Dr. King didn't expect everybody to do what was right when he  was doing it. I don't expect everybody who believes that what we are  doing is right but won't do it themselves to do what is right with us.

I understand, but what I don't want you to do, and I beg that you not  do, is assault the people who are standing up for you in clever  language.

Don't do that. Don't assault us. We may fight back, but don't do  that. I have bigger things to do. I am not going to say ugly things.

My point is this is bigger than any one of us in this Congress. It is  bigger than the Congress, the House and the Senate together, and the  judiciary. This is about the country. What kind of country will he  leave when he leaves office? That is what we are dealing with.

My friends across the aisle are very much aware of how he is  encroaching upon the separation of powers, the judiciary, how he is  threatening the Supreme Court, and threatening judges with abusive,  vituperative language. When you are threatening one judge, you are  threatening them all. Let's not kid ourselves. He is doing it.

I am going to share this with you. I know who this President is. I  want to make sure that you understand that I am going to a different  topic in sharing with you who he is. I want to tell you who he is  because, in telling you who he is, I will be going to a different  topic. I made my point about impeachment, but I want to tell you who he  is, because I have seen him before. I know him.

This is a different topic now because there is more to be said about  this President than what was said in the Articles of Impeachment. I  want to say that more has to be said at this time about who he is that  wasn't in the Articles of Impeachment. To say that, I am going to move  to another podium. I am going to move to another podium, so give me  just a moment as I move to another podium.

And still I rise, Mr. Speaker, and I rise now to explain to the world  who Donald John Trump is. I have seen him before. I have seen his  cousins. I have seen his relatives. I am going to tell you who he is.

I saw him on June 11, 1963, when he stood in the schoolhouse door. He  was George Wallace. I saw him when he fought desegregation in this  country. I saw him. He metamorphoses. He changes. He is a shape- shifter. He changes his makeup, his appearance.

Now, there are those who are going to take that literally and say,  gosh, he thinks that Donald Trump was George Wallace, but there are  other people who understand that I am saying: George Wallace was a  forerunner of Donald Trump.

I saw him. I know who he is. He wasn't Wallace, but he is, in a  sense, his cousin. He was George Wallace's cousin. He is a relative,  not because of ethnicity, not because of race, but because of behavior.  They are related in terms of their behavior.

I know he is. I saw him in 1964, when he was Lester Maddox. He had an  ax handle, and he used his ax handle to threaten people of color. I saw  him with that ax handle when he wouldn't allow Black people into his  restaurant.

I know who he is. I saw his cousin, Milton Friedman, Nobel laureate,  who, after the Brown v. Board of Education decision was rendered, he  went public and said let's use vouchers to maintain segregation. That  is another way of saying let's use vouchers to maintain racism, because  that is what segregation was. It was racism.

I know who he is because I have read about him and what he did on May  18, 1896, in Plessy v. Ferguson, the case that allowed invidious  segregation to bloom and blossom and permeate society.

I know who he is. Some of you don't know. You have not had a chance  to review his history as I have. I know his cousins. I know his  relatives.

I know who he is because I have read about what his relatives did on  March 6, 1857, in Dred Scott v. Sandford, when they concluded, this  Chief Justice, that a Black person had no rights that a White person  had to respect.

I know who he is. I know the people who were there before him to pave  the way for him to do what he is doing now. I know him, and because I  know him, I have to fight him. I know what he did in my lifetime.

He didn't have a personal hand in what happened, but when I say he  did, I am talking about the people who have made it possible for him to  do what he is doing now.

Let's just say I know what they did so that FOX News and some of the  many others who are antithetical to hearing the truth--maybe they won't  obliterate the truth to the extent that they are perfectly capable of  doing.

Here is what I know: I know what happened in my lifetime when I had  to go to the back door to get my food. I remember when I had to drink  from a filthy colored water fountain when there was a pristine White  water fountain right next to me. I know. I lived it.

I remember how I had to sit in the back of the bus, and if there  weren't enough seats for Anglos--we called them White people. I don't  like the term. But when there weren't enough seats for Anglos, then I  had to move. I know. I know what is going on. I see it.

Well, you say, that is not happening right now. No, but we are headed  in that direction. I don't want to return to that past where I was a  suspect simply because of the color of my skin. I was a suspect.

We are now at a point in this country, to tie this together, where  there are people who are suspects because of the way they look, just as  I was a suspect because of the way I looked. If you are Latino in the  United States of America, given the behavior of the king's men--that  would be President Trump--you are a suspect. You are a suspect, and the  king's men can show up with a mask, faces covered, collect you--that is  a very kind way of saying it--put you in some vehicle, and then storm  away to some distant place and lock you up. Relatives don't know where  you are--no due process.

I know. I know who you are. I know where you are going. I know what  you  want to do. I have suffered what you would return to if you could. I  know. Yes, I see how you have decided that you, and you alone,  determine what the law is in this country. You, and you alone, will  decide whether a person should be locked up or released, unlike what  the Constitution requires. I know who you are.

Mr. Speaker, I know who you are. I understand that there is an  attempt to roll back the clock. People of color are becoming suspect in  this country. You can be African American; you can be Asian; you can be  Latino; we are moving toward your being suspect.

There are people of good will of all colors who are going to fight  this. I pray that we will succeed. There are people of good will who  are White and who are standing with us.

It is easy to see, if you care to look, at how the President has now  said: Yes, I said there were s-hole countries. Yes, I said it.

The President is now saying in South Africa there is genocide. We  will bring in the White South Africans. If you are from one of the 19  countries--actually it is 18--predominated by people of color, we will  put a hold on you.

There is no one so blind as he who won't see, not he who can't, but  he who chooses not to see. I know who he is. I know what he has done to  lay the foundation, not him personally, but the many who came before  him and who know how to use hate as a weapon to change society. That is  what he is doing. He is using hate.

He is using beneficial bigotry.

How does beneficial bigotry work, Al Green?

Here is how it works. You go to someone who is a principled person,  someone who has been fighting for liberty and justice for all. You do  them a favor. In exchange for that favor, you only require one thing:  Loyalty. Just give me your loyalty. Give me your loyalty in the future.

The thing that he has done can sometimes be of benefit to the person.  Most of the time it is. It can also be detrimental to some other  people. He uses beneficial bigotry.

It is beneficial bigotry that he has used against the Palestinians.  It is beneficial bigotry to say they should be obliterated and to say  that the Palestinians don't deserve a country. He has used it to do all  that he can to eliminate the possibility of a two-state solution. That  plan that he has is nothing more than a land grab.

I know who he is. I see what he is doing. Others do, too. They just  don't have the ability to stand in the well of the House of  Representatives and say it. I am saying it. Yes, he is a beneficial  bigot.

Then those who benefit from his bigotry are loyal to him. These are  people who would never allow a person to do such a thing if he hadn't  done favors for them. They would speak out and speak up against his  bigotry. They don't because he has done favors.

Those who are part of the evangelical movement see what is happening  to the country. They have an opportunity to preach on Sunday all of the  righteousness, and then on Monday they benefit from the bigotry. As a  result, righteousness becomes secondary to the loyalty that they  pledged because he did something for them.

I say to my dear friends in this part of my message today that I am  not going to relent. There are some who would have me go away. There  are some who have already indicated--there was a news story out today  about how I will be defeated at the next election and I will just  become part of a bygone history. They have already prognosticated my  defeat and called me a rogue.

Friends, all of this may happen. I will say this. It won't change my  opinion, and it won't change who I am. I believe in this flag. I  believe in liberty and justice for all. I don't support beneficial  bigotry. I don't support people who would desecrate what the flag  really means as it relates to the Constitution.

Those are not the last Articles of Impeachment that will be brought  to the floor. H. Res. 939 is not the last to be brought to the floor  for a vote to remove Donald John Trump from office.