Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise. I rise to call to  my colleagues' attention that they are no longer claiming that this is  a clean CR. The truth is that it is a dirty, filthy, and stealthy CR  that has been contaminated with millions of dollars for people who have  not earned it. They want to take it from the taxpayers of this country  because they have concluded somehow that they have been harmed where no  harm has been proven or brought to our attention.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that healthcare for all is important because  we in Congress have the best healthcare in the world. Yet, people with  the best healthcare in the world do not see fit for persons who need it  and who are among the least, the last, and the lost to acquire  healthcare, something that they have.

Healthcare is becoming wealthcare for too many people in this  country. We need to extend the subsidies. We need to make sure that  everybody who can get to a doctor gets care. This is not a poor  country.

Mr. Speaker, I refuse to take a poison pill and let my colleagues  tell me I will regurgitate it next week. The poison pill has killed the  CR.

Mr. Speaker, this is not a clean CR! This is a dirty, corrupt  Continuing Resolution that I cannot in good conscience support. This CR  does nothing to address the Affordable Care Act subsidies whose  expiration Republicans refused to address. This CR includes a shameful  stealthy provision that would allow eight senators to sue the federal  government for millions of dollars. To allow each of the eight Senators  to concoct legislation to benefit themselves and sue the federal  government for a $1 million taxpayer funded giveaway would legitimize  their blatant corruption in the so-called clean CR.

Millions of Americans deserve a permanent solution to the healthcare  affordability crisis, much more than the billionaire contributors to  campaigns who just received millions of dollars in tax breaks from  their Republican accomplices. While the American people were working  through the shutdown, President Trump partially demolished the White  House and Senate Republicans negotiated a $ million-dollar gift to some  of their colleagues.

This shutdown need not have happened. Republicans control the House,  Senate, and Presidency. They could have kept the government open with a  negotiated settlement, or in the same way they placed Mr. Gorsuch on  the Supreme Court, by using a majority rule rather than a 60-vote rule.

I cannot support this corrupt and dirty CR, and I urge my colleagues  to oppose this legislation too.