Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of William  Evanina to be the first Senate-confirmed Director of the National  Counterintelligence and Security Center, or NCSC. I believe Bill is an  American patriot and an American success story. 

  He was raised in Peckville, PA, with very modest means. He was the  first in his family to go to college. Prior to joining the FBI in 1996,  his first job was with the General Services Administration in  Philadelphia. Over his 24-year long career with the FBI, Bill  investigated organized crime and violent crimes. He investigated the 9/ 11 terrorist attacks, the anthrax attacks, and the Daniel Pearl  kidnapping. Bill also led the counterespionage group at the Central  Intelligence Agency. He earned a reputation as the consummate  counterintelligence and security professional, fiercely dedicated to  the mission with unquestionable honor. 

  Then, in June 2014, then-Director of National Intelligence, Jim  Clapper--someone whom I know and respect very much--appointed Bill to  serve as the Director of the NCSC. Many technical and complex  activities fall under NCSC, including personnel security policy,  information technology protection standards, CI cyber operations,  supply chain risk management, threat awareness for the U.S. critical  infrastructure, and damage assessments from spies and unauthorized  disclosures. I have partnered, in my role as vice chairman, with Bill  on many topics, to include educating industry about the threats posed  by China and reforming an antiquated personnel vetting system. 

  The Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal year 2016 recognized  the vital work that NCSC does and made the position subject to  Presidential nomination and Senate confirmation. In February 2018,  President Trump nominated Bill to be the first Senate-confirmed  Director. The Senate Intelligence Committee considered the nomination  in May of 2018 and unanimously--unanimously, with some concerns from my  colleague from Oregon, but unanimously--recommended his confirmation to  the full Senate. 

  His nomination didn't get taken up because a Member on the opposite  side had a concern. We considered his nomination again in February 2019  in the new Congress, and, again, our committee voted unanimously in  favor of his nomination. 

  Unfortunately, over the last 2 years, despite universal recognition  of Bill's qualifications for the position, his nomination became  entangled in unrelated matters. Despite the delay--and I think Bill had  plenty of opportunities to leave the government--Bill stayed the  course, committed to the mission above all else. 

  Now, I share my colleague from Oregon's concerns about  whistleblowers. I have seen this administration and this White House's  disregard for whistleblowers. I tell you this: I believe I have Bill's  commitment that the matter of processing the procedures on  whistleblower protections will be dealt with. I also feel  extraordinarily strongly that at this moment in time, when there is not  a single Senate-confirmed appointee in the whole Office of Director of  National Intelligence, now more than ever, we need at least one career  intelligence professional with a good record, confirmed by this Senate,  standing guard over an operation that right now, unfortunately, seems  to be directed too often by political appointees that, both, disregard  protection for whistleblowers and, in my  mind, too often disregard protections for our whole intelligence  community. 

  With the fact that we have now gotten rid of the unrelated matters  that were precluding Bill's confirmation by my colleague on the  majority, I think we deserve to give this nominee what he and the  country deserves--a vote. And my hope is a very strong vote of  confirmation so that we can send someone who, as a career professional,  has a commitment to holding truth first and foremost above political  interference. We need Bill Evanina confirmed in this position. 

  I look forward to Mr. Evanina's confirmation today so that he can  continue addressing the many important counterintelligence and security  challenges facing our Nation. 

                                  Cloture Motion  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT