Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise today concerning the tragic death  of a young Virginian, Bijan Ghaisar, who was shot and killed by two  U.S. Park Police officers over 2 years ago. 

  While this tragic incident occurred, as I mentioned, more than 2  years ago, many questions remain unanswered regarding the circumstances  of Bijan's death. Unfortunately, the Department of the Interior has  failed to answer many of the basic questions that I have asked about  the night of Bijan's death and subsequent actions the National Park  Service has taken following the shooting. 

  In November of last year, I wrote the Department and requested  information about the U.S. Park Police's use of force and vehicle  pursuit policies, as well as information about the Park Service's  response in the aftermath of Bijan's shooting. Unfortunately, there has  been no response. 

  The Department found time to do some PR work. They provided copies of  the updated use of force and vehicle pursuit policies to the Washington  Post earlier this year, but I still have not received a response to my  letter that was sent over 6 months ago. 

  To this point, the Department has failed to answer many basic  questions about this incident--questions that I have asked, as well as  my friend, the senior Senator from Wyoming. They are questions about  the incident, such as these: Did the Department open an internal  affairs inquiry into the incident to see if any violations of Park  Police policy occurred? What is the timeline for such an investigation?  Is the U.S. Park Police conducting a thorough after-action review of  the incident? What is the status of the Park Police officers involved  in the incident? Are they on administrative leave, desk duty, or are  they back on patrol?  

  These are basic questions. If the Department of the Interior had any  interest in transparency, they could answer them today. The Ghaisar  family deserves answers about what happened to Bijan. The pain they  have experienced over the last 2 years is immeasurable. As if the  premature death of their son wasn't bad enough, they have waited 2  years for answers from a Federal Government that has failed completely  to adequately respond to this tragedy. 

  I am not going to rest until the Ghaisar family has the answers they  deserve about what happened to Bijan that night. If the Department  wants to ignore these basic questions I have asked and if they want to  disregard legitimate congressional oversight, then there will be  consequences until their action changes. 

  In February, I voted against Katharine MacGregor's nomination to be  Deputy Secretary of the Interior. I said very clearly at that time that  if the Department of the Interior continues to ignore my questions  about the killing of Bijan Ghaisar, I would hold up future Interior  nominees. For this reason, I am today placing a hold on the nomination  of Lanny Erdos to serve as Director of the Office of Surface Mining  Reclamation and Enforcement within the Department of the Interior. 

  If we don't get answers to legitimate questions that I and other  Members of this body and Members of the House have raised about the  shooting of Bijan Ghaisar, I am prepared to hold up even more nominees.  This is not something I take lightly. Holding up nominees should always  be a last resort. But I have been patient and Bijan's family has been  patient, and still the Department of the Interior has been silent. 

  For Bijan's family, 2 years is too long to wait. They deserve answers  about what happened the night their son was shot and killed. I urge the  Department to swiftly provide substantive answers to my outstanding  questions regarding the death of Bijan and the Department's response. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT