Letter to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao - Connolly Joins Bicameral Letter in Support of George Washington Memorial Parkway Rehabilitation Project


Dear Secretary Chao,

We write today in support of the National Park Service's application to the U.S. Department of Transportation's Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant program seeking funding to rehabilitate the northern section of the George Washington Memorial Parkway (GWMP). The GWMP North Section Rehabilitation Project aims to reconstruct a heavily used 7.6-mile section of the Parkway from Spout Run Parkway to Interstate 495.

The GWMP is a scenic and historic roadway that serves as a memorial to George Washington and connects Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. The Park Service first completed the northern section of the GWMP in 1962, utilizing the most up-to-date engineering methods of the time to maximize the lifespan of the roadway. However, in the nearly fifty years since completion, traffic on the Parkway has increased exponentially as the population of the region has burgeoned. Today, the GWMP facilitates the travel of more than thirty-three million vehicles per year, with the northernmost section experiencing the heaviest traffic.

The proposed project will address serious deterioration of the GWMP and implement needed safety improvements to protect motorists. If funded, the Park Service plans to repave nearly eight miles of road along the GWMP, repair stormwater management systems to prevent erosion at drainage outfalls; and rehabilitate two historic, scenic overlooks. The project also includes replacing guardrails, repairing walls, constructing new curbs, and building emergency turnarounds.

In 2019, several portions of the GWMP were closed to address emergency repairs relating to a culvert pipe failure and a large sinkhole that took nearly three months to complete. Both repairs resulted in significant disruption and displacement of motorists along a heavily traveled section of the GWMP. Improvements to the Parkway are needed to prevent similar disruptions from occurring and ensure the safety of our constituents who utilize this roadway on a regular basis.

This project will rehabilitate and improve a critical link in the National Capital Region's transportation network while preserving the historical and cultural characteristics that make the Parkway one of the most scenic roadways in the country. These proposed improvements will improve the safety of visitors while extending the life of the GWMP. In addition, work on the north section of the Parkway will address a significant portion of the National Capital Region's $1.9 billion dollar deferred maintenance backlog, which includes over $717 million for the GWMP alone.

We understand the INFRA grant program is highly competitive and we appreciate your consideration of the project. Please do not hesitate to reach out if you have any questions about our request.

Thank you again for your consideration.

Sincerely,