Letter to Dr. Robert Redfield, Director for the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention - Reed Seeks to Boost Child Immunization Rates


Dear Dr. Redfield,

We write to express significant concern regarding the recent decline in routine childhoodimmunization rates in the United States during the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic,and urge you to take immediate action to encourage and support routine pediatric immunizationsthrough the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic.

According to recent data published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), adecline in provider orders for non-influenza childhood vaccines, and measles-containingvaccines including the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine, began one week after PresidentTrump declared a national emergency on March 13, 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. InMay, the Michigan Care Improvement Registry found a drastic decrease in vaccination ratesamong children across nearly every age group. The percentage of children five months andyounger who remain up-to-date on recommended vaccines declined from 67.9 percent in 2019,to 49.7 percent in May 2020. The New York City health department reported a 63 percent dropin the number of vaccine doses administered to children between March 23 and May 9, includinga 91 percent drop for children ages 2 and above.

The administration of routine pediatric immunizations remains critical throughout the duration ofthis public health emergency. The decline in immunizations is largely attributable to efforts byfamilies to adhere to social distancing guidelines to reduce both their exposure to, and the spreadof COVID-19. But if this trend of decreased immunization rates among children continues, theUnited States could face yet another public health crisis: increased risk of outbreaks of vaccinepreventable diseases. Such outbreaks would put lives at risk, and place additional stress on our health care system and public health infrastructure at a time when these systems are struggling torespond to the COVID-19 pandemic.

To avoid this potential crisis, we urge the CDC to immediately develop an action plan thatincorporates targeted public outreach and education efforts on addressing vaccine hesitancy andemphasizing the importance of pediatric immunizations; resources for communities that haveseen reductions in their immunization rates since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic; andguidance for parents and families on how to safely access pediatric immunizations during theCOVID-19 pandemic, including best practices regarding personal protective equipment (PPE)use and other precautions to limit the risk of exposure to COVID-19 in health care settings; andnecessary efforts to ensure rapid catch-up for children who are not up to date on critical pediatricvaccines.

In addition to developing the plans described above, we request that you respond to the followingquestions no later than July 1, 2020 to help us better understand how the federal government isworking to address the alarming drop in pediatric immunization rates:

1. What specific steps is CDC taking to reverse the dramatic drop in vaccinations since midMarch?a. How does CDC plan to capture accurate real-time data on pediatric immunizationrates and identify potential solutions, particularly in vulnerable communities?

2. What outreach and education efforts are underway at CDC to address fears amongparents and families related to bringing children into health care settings during theCOVID-19 crisis?a. Is CDC planning a public information campaign to address vaccine hesitancy, andif so, how will CDC ensure that the necessary communication on the importanceof routine immunizations is reaching parents and families?b. How will CDC ensure that families receive guidance on safe access to care forchildren during the COVID-19 pandemic, including the appropriate use of PPE?c. How will CDC communicate with health care workers, and provide the necessarytools to inform communities about the importance of receiving pediatricimmunizations during the COVID-19 pandemic?d. What guidance is CDC providing to pediatricians and other health care workerson procedures to ensure that they can safely provide and promote routine pediatricimmunizations?e. Given the significant increase in unemployment due to COVID-19, many familiesare finding themselves uninsured. How will CDC raise awareness of the Vaccinesfor Children (VFC) program to ensure that families know their children can stillaccess routine immunizations, and how does CDC plan to support participatingVFC providers as they work to catch up VFC-eligible children on missedvaccinations, while also preparing for the upcoming flu season?

3. How will CDC monitor the ongoing availability and ordering of pediatric immunizations,including doses and other essential medical devices, PPE, and other supplies needed tostore, transport and administer vaccines, and what plans are in place to address anysupply chain disruptions?a. Is CDC taking steps now to ensure that the availability of pediatricimmunizations, and necessary medical devices and supplies, is not impacted whenproduction and domestic distribution of a COVID-19 vaccine is underway?4. Has CDC developed or reviewed modeling or projections that predict the potential impacton future vaccine-preventable outbreaks if the current pediatric immunization ratecontinues throughout the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic?5. Does CDC require additional resources from Congress in order to support efforts toreverse the decline in pediatric immunizations? If so, what level of funding would besufficient?

We appreciate your timely response and look forward to working with you on this critical issue.