Warner, Colleagues Announce Path Forward for Bipartisan Legislation to Restore National Parks


Today U.S. Sen. Mark R. Warner (D-VA) was joined by Sens. Cory Gardner (R-CO), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Rob Portman (R-OH), Angus King (I-ME), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Jon Tester (D-MT) in announcing a path forward for the Restore Our Parks Act -- legislation championed by Sen. Warner to address the $12 billion maintenance backlog at national parks across the country. Yesterday, the President announced that he would back the bipartisan legislation, as well as full and permanent funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). For nearly three years, Sen. Warner has led the effort to provide relief to national parks in Virginia, where the increasing maintenance backlog currently sits at more than $1.1 billion dollars and surpasses that of every state except for California and the District of Columbia.

"We've been working on the parks legislation for the last four-plus years, and as Rob mentioned, it has broad bipartisan support," said Sen. Warner. "We've got a nearly $12 billion backlog. In my state, Virginia, it is more than $1 billion dollars of that backlog. And we're not only talking about trails and bridges. Anybody who lives in the national capital region -- you commute on G.W. Parkway, you can see the deteriorated state of that road. That is one of those assets that we have deferred maintenance on."

He continued, "Deferred maintenance is simply a bill put off. We're going to provide in this legislation $6.5 billion dollars -- so about 50 percent of those needs we've met. Once this bill gets implemented and put into law, it will put 100,000 Americans to work on this restoration -- 10,000 in Virginia."

The Restore Our Parks Act, which has been praised by key stakeholders, would reduce the maintenance backlog by establishing the "National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund" and allocating existing revenues the government receives from on and offshore energy development. This funding would come from 50 percent of all revenues that are not otherwise allocated and deposited into the General Treasury, not to exceed $1.3 billion each year for the next five years.

In November, the Restore Our Parks Act was overwhelmingly approved by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and sent to the Senate floor, where it awaits approval.