Warner Urges Internet Networking Device Vendors to Ensure Security of Consumer Internet Connectivity Products


Today, U.S. Sen. Mark R. Warner (D-VA) urged six internet networking device vendors to help ensure that their internet connectivity products remain secure as Americans across the nation ramp up their use of these devices for remote work, health, and education purposes as part of COVID-19 social distancing efforts. In letters to Google, Netgear, Belkin, Eero, Asus, and Commscope, Sen. Warner urged vendors to help ensure that their wireless access points, routers, modems, mesh network systems, and related connectivity products remain secure and cannot be easily exploited to attack consumer systems and workplace networks.

"As the COVID-19 pandemic unfolds, Americans will depend on connectivity products to receive telehealth; remain connected with family, colleagues, employers, and friends; and to receive news reports, and guidance from government and public health officials," wrote Sen. Warner. "During this time, the security of consumer devices and networks will be of heightened importance."

He continued, "I request your attention and diligence to help protect the consumer devices you sell. Both new and older devices in use deserve protection from cybersecurity threats, including timely updates to mitigate vulnerabilities and exposures."

As the COVID-19 outbreak continues to spread, and workplaces, schools, and businesses shut their doors as part of social distancing efforts, Americans are increasingly relying on their home networks and personal internet connectivity devices. However, without proper cybersecurity measures, these home devices can pose a risk to larger workplace systems, potentially creating a door for bad actors to infiltrate these networks. 

According to CNBC, cyberthreats -- including phishing and other cyber scams -- have increased amid the COVID-19 outbreak, as online criminals look to take advantage of home network vulnerabilities and stressed IT systems.

In the letters, Sen. Warner urged vendors to continue to issue timely security updates in order to mitigate known cybersecurity vulnerabilities. Additionally, he stressed the importance of having vendors notify consumers who may own devices that are no longer able to receive critical updates and are therefore no longer protected from cybersecurity threats.

Sen. Warner also highlighted his Internet of Things (IoT) Cybersecurity Improvement Act -- a bipartisan bill he introduced last year that would improve the cybersecurity of Internet-of-Things devices and help ensure that vendors of key information technology products maintain coordinated vulnerability programs.