Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from  Connecticut for yielding. It is so good to be here with her.

I want to focus a little bit on the importance of bringing this to  the floor and perhaps even entering into a sort of dialogue with Mrs.  Hayes about it.

I am thinking that the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act  came around 50 years ago. Long before that time, people recognized that  education was a game changer for anyone.

Frederick Douglass said that knowledge is the ``pathway from slavery  to freedom,'' and, ``Once you learn to read, you will be forever  free.''

We found that Brown v. Board of Education really challenged the Equal  Protection Clause under the 14th Amendment and made sure that little  Black children would be able to get an education. Even before the  Department of Education was established, even before that, the IDEA was  written into law.

I bring all of that background up to say that the Department of  Education was critical because when you think of all the various laws  that need to be administered to make sure that there is equal  protection, the IDEA just being one of those laws, it is very  disturbing to see that the Department of Education has been stripped  down to its bare bones.

I would like the member of the Committee on Education and Workforce  to help me walk through it.

Am I right about this, that the administration has tried to illegally  move the IDEA office and funding from the Department of Education to  the Department of Health and Human Services?

I yield to the gentlewoman for a colloquy.

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. In the middle of the shutdown, was it true  that the Trump administration tried to fire nearly everyone in the  Department of Education's Office of Special Education and  Rehabilitation Services?

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. The Office of Civil Rights was put in there  through the Civil Rights Act of 1964. This office is responsible for  investigating thousands of allegations of discrimination each year,  which includes enforcing Federal laws, ensuring equal educational  access, and preventing discrimination.

Gentlewoman from Connecticut, am I wrong about this? I think it is  very important because what we have seen is that so-called disabled  people or differently abled people have made such tremendous  contributions to our culture and to our society. I am thinking of very  famous people like Thomas Edison, Franklin Roosevelt, and Fannie Lou  Hamer, people who have had polio, who have been in wheelchairs, and  physicists who have contributed.

It is important to leave nobody behind because the education of  everybody is important to our national security interests and our  economic interests.

I am so happy that Mrs. Hayes has raised this in this Special Order  hour, and I thank her for allowing me to participate.