Stories From Home: the Human Cost of Expiring Healthcare Tax Credits


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleagues in  the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) for organizing this Special Order.

As we get ready for Thanksgiving, families across our Nation are  coming together. It's a time to celebrate and express gratitude for  family. It's a time of reflection too.

But as Americans gather, they are also worried about the family  budget too. That Thanksgiving meal is going to be more expensive this  year. For millions of families, individuals, small business owners  covered by the Affordable Care Act (ACA), so is their health care.  Which is why I am today with my colleagues. So we can lift up these  voices as we work to help bring them relief and pass legislation to  extend those ACA premium tax credits.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to stand in the gap for my constituent  Wesley and his family from Milwaukee. Like millions of Americans,  Wesley and his family depend on the subsidies provided through the  Affordable Care Act (ACA). Wesley wrote to me explaining that the  extension of ACA subsidies has allowed him to afford healthcare for his  entire family. Without them, he would likely be forced to make the  difficult decision to insure only his daughter.

He's one of over 300,000 Wisconsinites covered by the ACA.

Another is Jeffrey from Milwaukee:

I am self-employed and completely count on these credits in       order to afford my own health insurance, without them I may       be uninsured. The anxiety that I, and I'm sure others are       feeling the same.

Or Robert from Milwaukee:

I was on Medicaid until I made just $200 too much, at which       time I was kicked off.

However, I was able to find a plan on the Marketplace that       met my needs. After looking at all the options, I found out I       could afford a silver plan because the monthly $900 premium       was reimbursed by the government. Without the stipend, I       cannot pay this premium and I would have to look at the       bottom bronze plans. Very little is covered. My premiums       would be lower but my deductibles would be astronomically       high.

I am an in-home senior caregiver working part-time so I can       take care of my aging parents.

Or Dennis from Milwaukee:

For thousands of Americans like me, the ACA is not a       political talking point, it is the wall between a bearable,       if difficult, life and complete financial and medical ruin. I       relied on the ACA's Marketplace for my health coverage, the       only way I could secure a policy that didn't deny me for my       age, that capped my out-of-pocket costs, and that allowed me       to maintain my own health. Now, with funding cuts and       legislative actions targeting the core of the ACA, that       coverage is dissolving. The fear is a cold, suffocating       blanket. My wife's cancer care is a complex, costly, and       continuous reality. With the protections and financial       assistance of the ACA gone, her medical bills--for       chemotherapy, hospice, hospital stays, and medication--could       easily become astronomical, costs that studies show quickly       bankrupt families even with good insurance.

This blatant assault on Americans' healthcare must stop. President  Trump and Republicans have had over a decade to develop an alternative  healthcare plan--ever since they began proclaiming their intent to  dismantle the ACA. Well, guess what, America: They still have  absolutely nothing. President Trump famously said he has ``concepts of  a plan.'' Mr. President, and to my Republican colleagues, the American  people cannot rely on a concept that exists only in your imagination.

House Democrats stood firm for more than 40 days to support a budget  that addressed the rising cost of healthcare. Now we stand on the  precipice of a crisis caused by President  Trump and Republicans who seem determined to make the livelihoods of  the American people worse, not better. Again, they have no plan to help  them.

Across the country, stripping healthcare access from millions of  Americans and driving up costs for everyone else. This is especially  prevalent in minority and rural communities. So I ask my colleagues on  the other side of the aisle: Why do you want people to suffer?

The ACA tax credits ensure that families, seniors, young adults, and  workers have access to quality healthcare. These tax credits provide  critical financial relief for millions who rely on health insurance  coverage.

Affordability remains a top concern for Americans, and it baffles me  that Republicans would cause such unnecessary harm to low- and middle- income households.

I will continue fighting to protect your pocketbooks as we defend  your right to affordable healthcare. We cannot claim to be the greatest  country on earth when one side is willing to watch millions suffer or  be kicked off plans they have relied on for years. Our Nation is  already facing challenging times, and stripping away healthcare for  political gimmicks only causes further harm. Therefore, we must  continue working to extend the ACA tax credits to ensure Americans have  access to affordable, reliable healthcare.