Dhs Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern Act


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 881, the DHS Restrictions on Confucius Institutes  and Chinese Entities of Concern Act seeks to help address the threat  posed to U.S. colleges and universities by the People's Republic of  China and Chinese Communist Party.

The People's Republic of China and the CCP have poured hundreds of  millions of dollars into U.S. universities through Confucius Institutes  and other programs. These programs have given China, a strategic  competitor, a platform to potentially interfere with academic freedom  and free speech as well as greater access to sensitive intellectual  property and national security information.

To curtail these efforts, H.R. 881 requires the Secretary of Homeland  Security to ensure that U.S. institutions of higher education that have  relationships with Confucius Institutes, Thousand Talents Program, or  vaguely defined Chinese entities of concern do not receive any funds  from the Department of Homeland Security.

This funding prohibition is similar to those found for the Department  of Defense in the 2019 and 2021 National Defense Authorization Acts and  the National Science Foundation in the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022.  However, the restrictions in those measures were limited to  universities with Confucius Institutes only, and the ban was so  successful there are only a handful of Confucius Institutes remaining  on U.S. campuses.

That is why H.R. 881 includes a new category of banned relationships:  those between U.S. institutions of higher education and so-called  Chinese entities of concern. In the bill, a Chinese entity of concern  is any university or college in the People's Republic of China that  meets at least one of nine very broad criteria. As a result, H.R. 881  has the possibility to prohibit any DHS funding from going to any U.S.  university that has any relationship with virtually any Chinese  university.

That is why Democrats on the House Homeland Security Committee have  worked to bring H.R. 881 more in line with the funding bans found in  previous legislation by including a waiver for the Secretary of  Homeland Security like those the past legislation had for the Secretary  of Defense and National Science Foundation Director.

Now, H.R. 881 contains a waiver provision that allows the Secretary  of Homeland Security to permit Department funding to go to U.S.  institutions of higher education that maintain a relationship with  programs and entities in China if the relationship is either in the  national security interests of the United States or has no bearing on  the national security interests of the United States or its allies.

This is critical, as the bill's language could encompass all sorts of  agreements between academic institutions in the United States and  China, including student exchange programs and other cultural programs  that benefit American students, and ultimately our country.

Along those same lines, the bill now also includes a provision that  requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide outreach and,  upon request, technical assistance to U.S. institutions of higher  education relating to compliance with the bill.

I appreciate Representative Pfluger's willingness to work with us to  improve his bill by including the waiver and technical assistance  language.

Mr. Speaker, House Democrats share concerns that Chinese Communist  Party interference with U.S. colleges and universities could lead to a  wide variety of negative outcomes. That said, House Democrats do not  want to see legitimate academic activity between the United States and  China hindered.

The compromise language recognizes the spirit of the bill--the need  to protect America's intellectual property and academic freedom--and  takes steps to mitigate the risk of going too far and denying critical  Homeland Security funding to U.S. universities for any relationship  with virtually any Chinese university.

I do not support creating another pretext for the Trump  administration to deny U.S. universities Federal funding, but I also do  not want to see our greatest strategic competitor gain a greater  foothold on college campuses that could put our national security at  risk, either.

Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.  Chu).

Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, we must carefully balance potential risks to homeland  security posed by the CCP with the benefits  of educational and cultural exchange programs.