Three-Year Anniversary of Russia's Brutal Attack on Ukraine


Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, like Hitler, Mussolini, and  Saddam Hussein before him, Vladimir Putin should be called what he is:  a dictator.

Over the past 20 years, Putin has systematically ended free and fair  elections, crushed independent media, quashed protests, and killed,  jailed, or exiled political opponents.

Three years ago, Putin invaded Ukraine, showing complete disregard  for European borders, UN and NATO doctrines, and human rights.

For three years, the Ukrainian people have faced deliberate killings,  rapes, and the abduction of their children.

The United Nations has found evidence of Russian war crimes, and the  International Criminal Court has issued an arrest warrant for Vladimir  Putin, accusing him of being responsible for the abduction of Ukraine  children.

Under Putin's rule, Russian intelligence operations pose one of the  most aggressive and sophisticated threats to our national security.

And yet--the White House is now parroting Putin's talking points,  alleging that Ukraine started the war when we all know that Russia,  unprovoked, invaded Ukraine.

President Trump has described Putin as a ``genius'' and ``very  savvy,'' and last week he called Ukrainian President Zelensky a  ``dictator.''

Under Donald Trump, the United States has turned its back on Ukraine  and our NATO allies, while cozying up to an authoritarian.

Under Donald Trump, America's long-held reputation as a defender of  democratic ideals and state sovereignty, a credible and reliable  partner who will assist others in need and stand up for our allies, is  now a crumbling illusion.

Our country was created on the principle that it would not be ruled  by an all-powerful king but instead maintained by a system of checks  and balances to prevent tyrannical rule and provide power to the  people.

But now, Donald Trump is ceding power to an unelected billionaire at  home and appeasing a Russian dictator abroad.

I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to open their  eyes and rediscover their spines.