Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this rule  and ending this shutdown chaos.

For more than 40 days, the American people have endured a painful and  entirely avoidable government shutdown. It was not because of policy  differences but because Senate Democrats and Chuck Schumer chose  politics over people.

While Washington stalled, hardworking Americans paid the price. Our  air traffic controllers went without pay. A system stretched thinner by  the day had a new strain put on that system, which put millions of  lives at risk. Americans depend on them to keep our skies safe.  Families who rely on SNAP and WIC, parents who are just trying to feed  their kids, were left wondering how they would make it through another  week.

At the same time, our border agents and Coast Guard members continue  to serve this country as their own families went without pay. Through  it all, while everyday Americans carried the weight of this shutdown,  Senate Democrats had chance after chance to end it, but instead they  chose to prolong the pain. That is not leadership. That is hypocrisy.

It was never about budgets or priorities. It was about power. It is  not about turning government on. For them, it was about turning  government into performance, where the people paying the highest price  are the ones furthest from Washington.

For more than 40 days, families were used as political pawns and  props while those responsible stood in front of cameras pretending to  solve the crisis that they created. I actually saw a Member from my  home State stand at a food bank, decry the fact that nutritional  assistance was in question, then swear up and down that they would vote  against ending this shutdown. That is the epitome of hypocrisy, and the  American people deserve better than that.

House Republicans did our job. We passed a clean continuing  resolution weeks ago, the same kind of straightforward measure that  should have been agreed to immediately to keep this government open.  Senate Democrats blocked that 14 times, prolonging this shutdown just  to score points to their woke, angry mob.

This measure before us today is the same bipartisan framework they  could have passed 40 days ago. The only thing that has changed is the  political calendar.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the rule. Let's stand  with the American people, the families, the veterans, and public  servants who have carried the burden of this shutdown and reopen our  government. Let's get this country moving again.