Beautifying Federal Civic Architecture Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701756/beautifying-federal-civic-architecture-act


Mr. BANKS. Mr. President, as you know, one of the great privileges of  this job is to come down and to speak on this floor--the floor of the  U.S. Senate--about the important issues of the day. What an honor it is  as new Senators to come and look around and be stunned by this  building, by this room, this floor.

There is something truly inspiring about such a beautiful room as  this Chamber. In fact, I encourage everyone here--my colleagues, the  pages, the staff, all of those in the Gallery who are with us today--to  marvel at just how beautiful this room is. It is truly stunning.

Take a look around, and take it in. I have been here for a year and a  half now. It never gets old, walking onto the floor of the U.S. Senate  and being in this room, the Senate Chamber.

Look at the attention to detail, every bit of it, from the carpet to  the ceiling, from the doors to the ornaments on the wall, the Senate  floor is just one room in one of the most beautiful buildings in the  entire world.

Beautiful architecture is a vital part of civic life. What any  society builds is representative of the values that that society holds  dear. A society that believes in its goodness and beauty will build  beautiful things.

A great country will build great and beautiful buildings like this  one, and then they will be shaped by them. In fact, it was the great  Winston Churchill who said:

We shape our buildings and afterward our buildings shape       us.

So well put.

But a society that has given up on believing in its goodness and  beauty will fall into a cult of ugliness.

Sadly, the classical style of architecture that brought beauty to so  much of the world has come under serious attack, and it is time to  reverse that trend.

Last year, President Trump issued an Executive order just like one  that he  signed at the end of his first term and that he signed again at the  beginning of his second term, called Making Federal Architecture  Beautiful Again. And that Executive order mandates that classical and  traditional architecture is the design for Federal buildings.

Shortly after President Trump signed that Executive order, I  introduced the Beautifying Federal Civic Architecture Act, which would  make it the policy of the United States that classical and traditional  architecture should be the preferred design for all Federal public  buildings.

My bill also directs architects and buildings to consult with local  communities where building projects are taking place and to hear  directly from them about what they want to see built in their own  communities.

I hope that my bill will soon get a vote on this floor to codify and  make permanent what President Trump has done in his Executive order.

But I want to spend a few minutes on the floor today explaining why  beautiful architecture really matters and what is lost when we abandon  it.

I have talked before on this floor about my background. I grew up in  a trailer park, the son of a factory worker in a small town in Indiana.  The neighborhood that I was raised in, I suppose, didn't exactly have  what you would call beautiful buildings that you would look around and  admire.

But I didn't have to travel too far away from that trailer park to  see beautiful architecture. I got used to seeing the magnificent county  courthouse--the Whitley County Courthouse--in Columbia City, IN, my  hometown, that is right in the middle of the town square. Every time I  saw it, from the time I was a little boy until even today, when I drive  by it and see it regularly, I am always inspired by the dome of that  beautiful courthouse building in my small town.

I was the first in my family to go to college. And when I got to  Indiana University, I looked around, and there were several beautiful  buildings on the campus. The building that I spent the most time in was  Woodburn Hall, and the intricate mural that was painted in Woodburn  101, where I heard most of my boring political science lectures, was  painted by Thomas Hart Benton. I remember looking at that incredible  mural during those lectures and being inspired by something beautiful.

Now, my Fort Wayne office, which is my State headquarters, was also  the same office that I occupied when I served in the House of  Representatives for 8 years in my district. My office in the E. Ross  Adair Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, in downtown Fort Wayne, is  another great, classical-style building that is built in my State.

When I say that these buildings are inspiring, I am referring to that  feeling that you get when you see something beautiful, something that  is built to last, something that is transcendent.

Beautiful buildings make us look upward, toward the heavens,  reminding us that there is something out there that is bigger than  ourselves. That is the transformative power of beautiful architecture.

Across so much of Europe, you see these magnificent buildings that  were built hundreds of years ago that are still standing today. We  should still be able to build those same types of beautiful, long- lasting buildings in the United States of America.

Take a look at these two Federal courthouses, just as an example.  Look at the Federal courthouse in my capital city, in Indianapolis, and  then the Federal courthouse in Salt Lake City. And look at how the  courthouse in Indianapolis looks sturdy and solid and how regal and  beautiful it really looks with that design. It is a testament to the  importance of the law.

And then take a look at the Federal courthouse in Salt Lake City--in  downtown Salt Lake City--and you don't see any of that. In fact,  frankly, it looks like a prison--I mean, literally. It lacks symmetry,  and it is anything but beautiful. It is actually really gross, and a  lot of people who live in Salt Lake City agree with that.

In fact, Indiana has a great track record of really building  beautiful buildings, using classical architecture.

After I graduated college and worked at a few jobs here and there and  moved back to start a family in my same hometown, outside of Fort  Wayne, I went to work for a fifth-generation family commercial  construction company called Hagerman Construction. They have built a  lot of buildings from the early 1900s to today that use classical  architecture styles.

But one of my favorite buildings that they ever built is the famous  Lincoln Bank Tower in downtown Fort Wayne. It is built in art deco  style, and it incorporates classical design elements. The Lincoln Bank  Tower started construction in 1929, and it was finished in less than 1  year.

You think about that, and when I was working at that construction  company, I used to talk to the project managers and the construction  superintendents, and they used to tell me that there is no way you  could build a building like the iconic and most beautiful building in  downtown Fort Wayne, the Lincoln Tower, in less than a year.

In fact, it would take several years to build something like that  today, and it would cost a whole lot more in today-dollars versus  dollars in 1929 to do it. That is because of how much we have done that  has created so much more redtape when you build buildings and all the  hoops that you have to go through to build something as beautiful as  something like that today.

Another example is the Christ Chapel at Hillsdale College. It is  another beautiful, neoclassical building that happens to have been  built by another company headquartered in Fort Wayne called Weigand  Construction. It is truly one of the most beautiful buildings that I  have ever seen or been in, in our great country.

Hoosiers know how to build beautiful things and build beautiful  buildings. I am very proud of both of those buildings that have Hoosier  roots.

As I said, I am the son of a factory worker and a nursing home cook.  But though I come from humble beginnings, I couldn't help but be moved  by these beautiful buildings in Indiana and other places I visited.  Those beautiful buildings, which I still see today, made me realize  that beautiful architecture really is for everybody.

They are not simply architecture--these big buildings, these  beautiful buildings--they are not simply for rich people or the elites  or the upper classes of our society. Everyone deserves to be surrounded  by beauty, especially in this great country. That is especially true in  Washington, DC, our Nation's Capital.

Washington, DC, is the most important and powerful city in the entire  world, and I can't think of any other city that has been as  consequential in world affairs as Washington, DC, the city that we are  in today.

Given this city's power and importance, it should follow that DC  would be beautiful, every bit of it. For large parts of DC, this city  is truly magnificent.

Washington, DC, is home to some of the most beautiful buildings  certainly anywhere in our country but anywhere around the world. We  have the grandeur of the White House, the U.S. Capitol Building, the  Library of Congress--truly one of my favorites--the Department of  Agriculture, and many other beautiful buildings that make up this  Capital City.

Because these buildings are built in classical and traditional  styles, these buildings convey a sense of importance, power, and  dignity. They tell us that those who pass through them and by them on  sidewalks are important and that consequential things are happening  inside of these buildings.

The old Senate Chamber, by the way, just down the hallway, is another  incredible room that was designed by a brilliant architect named  Benjamin Latrobe.

And when he built it, he talked about building the old Senate  Chamber, and when he expanded it as the country expanded, he talked  about how it represented a great and growing Nation. And then Dr.  William Thornton was the original architect of the U.S. Capitol the guy  who designed and built the place.

And he talked about how he designed it in a way for the Presiding  Officer and I to be inspired as lawmakers to do good things. It just  goes to show that architecture matters. And that is how we should think  about the buildings all across Washington, DC, that they represent the  very best of our Nation.

When President Trump decided to build a new White House ballroom,  many of the so-called elites sneered at  it. They made fun of it. They said it was gaudy and imperial, but  really it was nothing like that. In fact, most Americans saw the  ballroom as a return to grace. Finally, the White House would have a  beautiful place to gather a lot of people, fitting of the important  role for our Nation's most famous building to bring people together in  an even more beautiful place than what it already is.

I am glad that President Trump is making Washington, DC, and the  White House even more beautiful than what it was before, but,  tragically, DC is also home to some of the ugliest buildings that you  can find anywhere. They are some of the ugliest buildings certainly  that I have ever seen, and it is because we allow brutalism to infect  our Nation's Capital. Brutalism is an architectural style that emerged  in the 1950s.

Brutalist buildings all look alike because they are all alike. They  are made out of raw concrete. They are big blocks of raw concrete, and  they are ugly because of that. They look like they are built on top of  each other.

In fact, the J. Edgar Hoover Building the home of the FBI is an ugly  brutalist disaster. The Hubert Humphrey Building home to the Department  of Health and Human Services looks straight out of a communist,  nightmarish block. In fact, Dr. Ben Carson who used to serve in that  building referred to it as ``10 floors of basement,'' is what he called  it.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development is another awful  building. These brutalist buildings have no place in our Nation's  Capital because our country is not ugly. Actually, Dr. Carson served in  the HUD building, and he called that 10 floors of basement.

We deserve to be inspired by the buildings around us, not depressed  by them. The buildings that we build leave an impact on all of us. The  question to ask is, How did we get here? How did we allow a cult of  ugliness to take over large parts of the United States?

And make no mistake, this didn't happen by accident. Cultural elites  did this on purpose. They made our world uglier because when you do  that, you change what citizens expect from public life. A world that  looks ugly produces a culture that only sees ugliness.

That is why the targets of the ugliness were often Federal and civic  buildings. When official government business takes place in ugly  buildings, the citizens lose belief in their government's goodness. But  I am telling you, because of President Trump's Executive order and the  bill that I have introduced, we can really change that one building at  a time.

President Trump is leading the charge with his White House  renovations and his Making Federal Architecture Beautiful Again  Executive order, and President Trump is making our country great and  beautiful again. And that is why it is really important that we pass my  bill the Beautifying Federal Civic Architecture Act.

We need to make sure that classical and traditional architecture are  the preferred design preferences for all Federal buildings and that  residents have a say in the types of buildings that are built in their  communities. Elitist architects shouldn't be allowed to steamroll over  regular Americans and force anti-American building designs on all of  us.

Our country is beautiful. Our country is the greatest country on  Earth in the history of the world, and we owe it to ourselves and our  children to build beautiful buildings that reflect who we really are as  a country.

And sure, maybe sometimes building beautiful buildings will cost more  than building ugly ones--I will grant you that--but beautiful buildings  last. They are transcendent; it is worth it. That is what our country  deserves, especially this great country.