Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700256/statements-on-introduced-bills-and-joint-resolutions


Mr. BANKS. Mr. President, I came to the floor 2 weeks ago to speak  about illegal immigrant truckdrivers causing chaos on our roads.  Earlier this month, a father, his two sons, and a family friend were  killed on an Indiana highway when an illegal immigrant swerved his  semitruck right into them.

Two weeks ago, when I came to the floor to speak about this, I asked  how many more people would have to die before we get serious about  deporting illegal immigrants, and I am absolutely devastated that we  now have one more name since I spoke here 2 weeks ago to add to that  count. Tragically, just last week, another Hoosier was killed on an  Indiana highway by an illegal immigrant truckdriver in a horrific  accident. Terry Schultz was a 64-year-old man who was killed by an  illegal immigrant from India when the illegal truckdriver reportedly  ran a red light. Although the truckdriver is now in ICE custody,  nothing can bring back Terry Schultz.

I am tired of coming to this floor and sharing the news about people  being killed on Indiana roads because of illegal immigrants. This is  the eighth Hoosier killed by an illegal immigrant on an Indiana road in  just the last 6 months, that I know of, and the seventh because of  illegal immigrant truckdrivers, specifically.

This is a national crisis, and I am sick of it. We need real  accountability and a major overhaul of the system. Too much blood has  already been stained on Indiana's roads. Things need to change, and  they need to change now.

Last night, President Trump delivered an incredible State of the  Union Address. One of the President's guests was a little girl named  Delilah Coleman. When Delilah was just 5 years old, she suffered life- changing injuries caused by an illegal immigrant driving a semitruck in  California, and it was the Democrat State of California that gave the  illegal immigrant his commercial driver's license.

She is one of way too many people who have been hurt or killed by  illegal immigrant truckers on our roads. Eight Hoosiers have been  seriously injured--again, that is just what I know of--on Indiana roads  by illegal immigrant drivers in the past 6 months. And that is just the  eight that we know of.

Thank God Delilah, whom we saw last night up in the Gallery, is  recovering well. In honor of Delilah, President Trump called on  Congress to pass the Delilah Law, which would bar any State in the  country from granting an illegal immigrant a commercial driver's  license.

Many illegal immigrants cannot speak English or read the basic road  signs. They have no business being on our roads, especially not behind  the wheel of a semitruck.

Well, today, I am answering President Trump's call, and today, I am  introducing the Delilah Law in the U.S. Senate. The Delilah Law not  only bars States from giving CDLs to illegal immigrants, but it also  revokes all trucking licenses that are currently issued to illegals and  mandates that the CDL knowledge and skills tests are only given in  English. This is common sense.

This will be a commonsense law, and I hope that we will get a chance  to vote on it in the Senate very soon.

Another way that we can make our roads safer is by aggressively going  after chameleon carriers that are employing illegal drivers. As I said  2 weeks ago, when I spoke on the floor about this, chameleon carriers  are trucking companies that, after being shut down or heavily fined,  just disguise themselves by changing their name or address or  Department of Transportation number to continue operating.

It turns out that the trucking company that employed the illegal  immigrant who killed those four people earlier this month in Jay  County--they were four Amish men--was a company called AJ Partners. And  they have been put out of service after it was investigated by the  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and deemed a chameleon  carrier. Since then, Secretary Sean Duffy and the Department of  Transportation have shut down two other shady carriers connected to AJ  Partners, as well as the sham school that helped the illegal immigrant  get his CDL in the first place.

Last year, the Department of Transportation closed 7,500 sham  commercial driver schools, known as CDL mills. The Department of  Transportation has also placed 14,000 drivers out of service for  English language proficiency violations. And I want to thank Secretary  Duffy right here, right now, for his leadership. The Department of  Transportation is cracking down, and what they are doing is making our  roads safer because of it.

The carrier reportedly involved in the accident that killed Terry  Schultz just last week was incorporated from an address in Greenwood,  IN. That is the principal place of business for six other carriers. Six  carriers at one address.

Earlier this week, I sent a letter to the Federal Motor Carrier  Safety Administration and urged them to investigate carriers operating  out of Greenwood and elsewhere in my home State. We need to know about  chameleon carriers that are operating in Indiana and shut them down,  and that is why, last week, my office announced the creation of the  Truck Safety Tip Line. The tip line is for those who work in the  trucking industry to report concerns about companies that are operating  illegally, hiring drivers who can't read or speak English, and hiring  drivers who are illegally in the country and without the proper  licenses and documents. The tip line gives truckers and people working  in the trucking industry a way to speak up when they see carriers that  are breaking the law and putting lives at risk on the road.

Any reports that are submitted to the Truck Safety Tip Line will be  reviewed and shared with the U.S. Department of Transportation and its  Office of Inspector General to help protect roadway safety and ensure a  fair and lawful trucking industry. But the job of keeping our roads  safe depends on more than just government. We need everyone--but  especially truckers--to help us out.

Look, Indiana sits at the crossroads of America. It is a proud slogan  for our State. And as I said before, Indiana is the fifth busiest State  in the country for commercial freight traffic. Each year, 724 million  tons of freight travel through Indiana. The truckers who operate in  Indiana and throughout the country keep our economy going and going  strong. They help us get the food we eat and the clothes that we wear.

Over 90 percent of truckers in America voted in the 2024 election.  They are patriotic and good people who love this country and care about  what is going on in America. Law-abiding truckers care about law and  order, and they are outraged by what is happening on our roads. They  are tired of unsafe drivers and companies who hire illegal immigrants  because they can pay them less and take good jobs away from hard- working Americans. Hard-working American truckers are tired of being  turned away from jobs because carriers hire cheap foreign labor  instead, and it shouldn't be this way.

So if you are a trucker and you have concerns about illegal trucking  companies and practices, we want to hear from you. In fact, we need to  hear from you. That is why I am encouraging truckers who are on the  road or those who are in the business to visit our website,  banks.senate.gov, where you can find the Truck Safety Tip Line in the  top corner.

We can't wait any longer. We have to do everything that we can to  deport illegal immigrants from this country and get them off of our  roads. We cannot allow illegal immigrants to terrorize our roads and  kill more innocent lives like we have seen happen over and over again.  I can't tell you how many people I have heard from who have texted me  recently and said that they are afraid to take their families on the  road in their vehicle and drive on the highways because this keeps  happening over and over again. It is a national crisis.

While Democrats continue to moan on and on about ICE, shutting down  the Department of Homeland Security because of it, I will work to keep  the people of Indiana safe from illegal immigrants, especially illegal  immigrants who are behind the wheel of semitrucks.

The time to act is now. President Trump called on us to do something  about this national crisis now. I hope that truckers will use the tip  line to help keep our roads safe, and I hope that we will get to vote  on the Delilah Law soon. It is long past time to do something about it.                                  ______

By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms. Hassan):

S. 3924. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security Act to  permit disabled individuals to elect to receive disability insurance  benefits during the disability insurance benefit waiting period, and  for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.