H.J. Res. 88


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691584/hj-res-88


Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, as chairman of the Environment and Public  Works Committee, I rise in support of my resolution to block the Biden  EPA's rule approving California's Clean Air Act waiver for its Advanced  Clean Cars II regulation.

I want to explain to my colleagues why they should join me in  disapproving of this job-killing electric vehicle mandate and why the  use of the Congressional Review Act is appropriate and correct in this  instance.

First, I would like to offer a little bit of background about how we  got here. Typically, the Clean Air Act stops State laws that regulate  emissions for motor vehicles in favor of a national standard by the  Environmental Protection Agency. This allows automakers to build the  same vehicles for use by drivers all across the country.

Since 1966, the Clean Air Act has given California, and only  California, the ability to seek a waiver of Federal mobile source  emissions standards. Other States can choose to adopt California's  standard or follow the Federal standard, but they cannot seek their own  waiver.

Congress provided California this special ability because of its need  to address unique locally high levels of pollution--like smog--in Los  Angeles and in the San Joaquin Valley. But over the past two decades,  California has used its waiver authority to push its extreme climate  policies on the rest of the country, which was never the intent of the  Clean Air Act's decision to grant the waiver. As EPA recognized in  2008, the rationale for California's ability to seek waivers does not  extend to greenhouse gases, as these levels are not unique to  California but are global in nature. But now, in addition to  establishing an EV mandate, California is also seeking to use its  waiver authority to eliminate diesel trucks. The Advanced Clean Trucks  and Low NOX truck rules set unattainable standards that will  harm our ability to ship goods across this country.

While my remarks today will focus on the resolution of disapproval  that I have offered on the Advanced Clean Cars II EV mandate, I  strongly support the resolutions that will follow that are offered by  Senator Fischer and Senator Mullin to block these rules.

California's Advanced Clean Cars II program requires all--and I did  say ``all''--vehicles sold in that State, Washington, DC, and 11 other  States that have adopted California's standard--all cars--to be zero- emissions vehicles by the year 2035; meaning, in one decade, these  States, totaling 30 percent of the new car market, will have a full ban  on the sale of gasoline-powered vehicles--and not just those but also  on traditional hybrids as well.

The regulation begins in 2026--next year--by requiring affected  States to sell 35 percent electric vehicles. These cars will hit  showroom floors within the next few months. So to avoid the devastating  impacts of these waivers, we need to act now.

These unattainable standards, backed by a fine of $26,000 per  vehicle--I said $26,000 per vehicle--for noncompliance attempt to  reshape auto manufacturing and take away consumer choice all across the  country.

I want to be clear, I have no problem with electric vehicles.  Consumers should be able to purchase the vehicle of their choice. But I  do have a big problem with electric vehicle mandates that replace the  will of the consumer and the will of the government.

Only 2.3 percent of new vehicle registrations in West Virginia last  year were electric vehicles. Nationwide, EVs accounted for only 10.2  percent of new vehicle registrations. The plain truth is, electric  vehicles are not popular. Even in New York, one of the States that has  adopted the California standard, only 10.1 percent of 2024 new vehicle  registrations were EVs. Perhaps that is why six New York House  Democrats voted against this rule.

As States and manufacturers ramp up to meet this EV mandate, the  impacts and costs will be massive. As the National Automobile Dealers  Association wrote, the economic impact of California's regulation will  affect all States. Soon, automakers will be forced to either sell more  EVs or limit the number of gas cars for sale in the other affected  States. Affordable new gas and hybrid vehicles, which cost between  $30,000 and $40,000, are expected to be among the first vehicles that  would be rationed out. This will leave consumers with far fewer choices  and force everyone to pay more for new and used cars to reflect  consumer demand and offset automaker losses.

To make matters worse, hundreds of thousands of jobs will be  eliminated. The Specialty Equipment Market Association wrote that a ban  on internal combustion engines ``would represent over $100 billion  annual economic impact to the U.S. economy and impact roughly 330,000  jobs.''

And those job losses will not be confined to California, but they  will be spread all across the Nation. Workers in auto manufacturing,  oil and gas production, and the agriculture sectors across this country  would lose jobs because of California's EV mandate.

And the elected officials who represent Michigan autoworkers,  Nebraska corn farmers, or West Virginia gas workers had no say in  California and EPA's decision to impose this mandate nationwide.

The responsibility of approving or disapproving California's waiver  application rests solely with the EPA.

California applied to EPA for a waiver to implement ACC2 in May of  2023, and the Biden administration sat on that application until  December of 2024. Well, there is no practical reason that the Biden EPA  couldn't have acted on California's waiver in 2023 or even during the  first 11 months of 2024, but we know why the previous administration  decided to wait: President Biden and his team knew that electric  vehicle mandates were unpopular with most American voters, especially  swing State voters that would decide the Presidential and congressional  elections. Mr. President, 2024 polling from WPA intelligence showed  that 70 percent of likely voters opposed a ban on gas-powered cars,  with only 18 percent in support.

Both the text of the Clean Air Act and public sentiment should have  led the Biden EPA to reject California's application. Instead, the  Biden administration approved California's waiver in December 2024,  after Democrats lost the election.

EPA's approval was published in the Federal Register on January 6,  2025, the same day Congress certified President Trump's victory. The  decision to limit consumer choice, increase car prices, and cost  hundreds of thousands of jobs was made by California and approved by a  Federal administration that had already been rejected by the American  voters.

I strongly oppose these California EV mandates and strongly oppose a  process that allows such a major national policy decision to be made  against the will of the American people, without input from their  Members of Congress.

In 1996, the Congressional Review Act was enacted through regular  order to create an expedited process for Congress to consider  resolutions that overturn rules finalized by Federal Agencies, like the  Biden EPA's decision to approve California's EV mandate. The CRA's  rationale--as explained by sponsors Don Nickles, Harry Reid, and Ted  Stevens--was to allow Congress to efficiently stop rules it finds ``too  burdensome, excessive, inappropriate, or duplicative.'' Every one of  these terms applies to the situation we find ourselves in today.

The CRA works by requiring Federal Agencies to submit their final  rules to the Senate and to the House of Representatives. When a rule is  submitted to Congress and published in the Federal Register, a 60-day  period is opened for any Member to introduce a resolution of  disapproval that, if passed by both Chambers and signed by the  President, prevents the rule from taking effect. These resolutions, by  law, are subject to limited debate, allowing them to be enacted by the  Senate by a simple majority vote.

Senators can bring resolutions of disapproval to the Senate floor  either by reporting them through committee or by submitting a petition  that has been signed by at least 30 Senators. Either way, the process  allows the Senators to vote on whether the rule should go into effect,  providing a method for elected Representatives to have oversight over  unelected bureaucracies.

I decided to use the CRA process and introduce this resolution  against EPA's approval of the California electric vehicle mandate for  two reasons.

First, enactment of the resolution would vacate EPA's rule approving  of the California waiver, stopping the EV mandate and protecting  consumers and workers across the country.

Second, because a vote here in the Senate and in the House would  allow the elected representatives of Americans of all 50 States, not  just California, to decide whether a nationally significant policy  should be implemented.

As I discussed earlier, the Biden administration delayed its action  on approving the California waiver for 18 months to get past the 2024  election. But that wasn't the end of the previous administration's  effort to shield this unpopular EV mandate from the will of the people.  The Biden EPA did not submit its approval of the California EV mandate  for review under the CRA and claimed its action was not a rule. That  was a clear effort to avoid accountability from Congress.

Fortunately, President Trump and EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin decided  to give the American people a say by submitting the approved California  waiver to Congress as a rule. Under the CRA, that submission by the  Trump EPA triggered my right as a Senator to introduce this resolution  to block California's EV mandate. But that submission kicked off  another effort by Democrats to stop the Senate from voting on this  issue.

On March of this year, at the request of three Senate Democrats, the  Government Accountability Office wrote an unprecedented letter stating  its ``observation'' that the Biden EPA action approving California's EV  waiver is not a rule subject to the CRA. Similar to the Biden  administration's efforts, this GAO letter was obtained in an attempt to  stop the Senate from exercising its authority provided by the CRA,  keeping the California EV mandate in place without a vote in this  Chamber.

Nothing in the Congressional Review Act, Senate rules, or Senate  precedents gives unelected staff at the GAO the authority to prevent  elected Senators from considering a resolution of disapproval against a  rule. In fact, Comptroller General Gene Dodaro, who is head of the GAO,  recently testified in a Senate hearing and said:

Our decisions are not dispositive on the Congress--they're       advisory.

But Democrats now want to give the GAO staff a veto over the Senate's  use of the CRA to disapprove rules submitted by Federal Agencies.

The Senate has given GAO the authority in the CRA process in the past  to protect the legislative branch's ability to conduct oversight over  administrative rules.

My predecessor West Virginia Senator Jay Rockefeller was a leader in  2008 efforts to give GAO the ability to trigger the Congressional  Review Act procedures for Agency actions not submitted to Congress as  required by the statute.

The issue in 2008 was an action by the Centers for Medicare and  Medicaid Services directing States on how they were to administer the  Children's Health Insurance Program. CMS did not submit its action to  Congress, calling it guidance rather than a rule. Senator Rockefeller  asked GAO to determine that the CMS guidance was a rule. When GAO  agreed with him, he introduced a resolution to block the rule--the  first time such a resolution was introduced pursuant to a GAO decision  rather than an Agency submission.

Ten years later, Congress passed and President Trump signed a  resolution introduced by my colleague Senator Moran from Kansas against  guidance from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that was  similarly not submitted. Senator Toomey went to GAO for a legal opinion  that the CFPB guidance was a rule for the purposes of the CRA, and GAO  determined that Congress could consider it as such.

I have personally gone to the GAO myself on several occasions when I  believed that an Agency action not submitted to Congress under the CRA  should, in fact, be considered a rule, like I did in 2022, when GAO  agreed with me that guidance from the Federal Highway Administration  instructing State departments of transportation to prioritize bike and  pedestrian projects over new highway capacity projects should be a  rule. And I did so a year later, when GAO disagreed with my argument  that a separate California waiver should have been submitted as a rule.

In all of these cases, Federal Agencies had not submitted their  actions to Congress, but in this case, EPA did submit its rule  approving the California EV mandate to Congress.

A GAO opinion has never been used to cut off the Senate's ability to  consider a CRA resolution of disapproval when the Federal Agency  actually submitted the rule to Congress. In fact, GAO has repeatedly  recognized that its legal opinions are unnecessary when Agencies submit  a rule to Congress.

In 2018, GAO wrote:

[The] Congressional Review Act gives agencies the primary       responsibility for determining which agency actions meet the       statute's definition of a rule.''

And:

Submission . . . to Congress pursuant to the Congressional       Review Act obviates the need for a GAO opinion.''

Two years later, GAO concluded:

When an agency submits a document to our office under CRA,       we consider that to be the agency's determination that the       document is a rule under CRA. When a rule is submitted to       Congress, Congress has an opportunity to review the rule and       pass a joint resolution of disapproval to void the rule.

Protecting our legislative branch oversight is the basis upon which  this Senate has involved GAO in the CRA process since 2008, but it does  not follow that GAO should be able to halt congressional privileges  when the executive branch does submit a rule. Once an Agency has  submitted a rule to Congress, as EPA has done here, elected  representatives should be able to decide whether to approve or  disapprove of the rule. That is how the Congressional Review Act has  functioned since its beginning in 1996.

I want to quickly talk about the filibuster and the Parliamentarian  because this has been raised.

My Democrat colleagues argue that there will be ``profound  institutional consequences'' by the Senate not allowing GAO a veto over  the use of the CRA against Agency-submitted rules. I, on the other  hand, disagree. Such a GAO veto has never existed before, and we must  remember that the CRA is all about protecting the authority of elected  representatives over unelected Agencies. Delegating to the unelected  GAO staff the authority to determine if Members of Congress can use the  CRA against Agency-submitted rules turns the statute completely on its  head.

My Democrat colleagues say that our action today undermines the  legislative filibuster, and that is simply not true. I support the  legislative filibuster. I have supported the legislative filibuster as  a Senator in the majority and as a Senator in the minority.

The Congressional Review Act, which was passed with the legislative  filibuster in place, has stood since 1996, providing a narrow exception  to the Senate's normal practice of extended debate. It applies only to  allow for disapproval of Federal Agency rules and only during a  prescribed time defined by the statute.

In deciding to retain the 30-year-old practice of allowing the use of  CRA procedures against Agency-submitted rules, we are not expanding any  authority to enact laws by a simple majority. We are not expanding the  scope of the CRA itself but, rather, simply refusing to narrow the CRA  by subjecting its use to GAO approval.

Like my colleagues in the Senate, I hold our Parliamentarians in very  high regard. They perform and she performs a vital role in this  institution, and her wise counsel is critical to making this Senate  function.

I want to make two things crystal clear: The procedural action we  have taken today is not about the filibuster and not about the  Parliamentarian. Instead, the procedural issue before the Senate was  simply whether GAO staff should be able to block resolutions of  disapproval against Agency-submitted rules.

I have explained why my answer to that is no. I have spent  significant time talking about the CRA itself and about procedure. I  think that is important because I respect the Senate as an institution,  and I care about how we do things.

We shouldn't lose sight of the substance of what we are doing today.  We are deciding whether California, DC, and 11 other States can impose  an electric vehicle mandate that will take away consumer choice, drive  up prices, and eliminate jobs across the country.

West Virginians don't want California's climate policy. West  Virginians don't want California's EV mandate. And I am confident that  most Americans don't want these things either. That is why the House of  Representatives passed this resolution of disapproval with a strong  bipartisan vote that included every Republican and 35 Democrats, some  from the State of California.

Today, despite the best efforts of the Biden administration and  congressional Democrats to shield this EV mandate from the will of the  American people, the Senate will have its say.

I urge my colleagues to vote tomorrow for the resolution of  disapproval.