H.J. Res. 61


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692022/hj-res-61


Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I rise to discuss my support for H.J.  Res. 61, a joint resolution of disapproval under the Congressional  Review Act to repeal the Environmental Protection Agency's misguided  National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, NESHAP, for  Rubber Tire Manufacturing.

On May 6, 2025, I voted in favor of this resolution of disapproval. I  did so because this rule is fundamentally flawed and does not reflect  the intent of section 112 of the Clean Air Act. For example, the EPA's  own risk review for the previous rubber tire NESHAP found that this new  rule was unnecessary to protect public health and the environment, and  the EPA was unable to quantify any public health benefits from this  rule. In fact, the EPA was only able to quantify public health  disbenefits from the rule.

This rule, like many other NESHAPs promulgated under the previous  administration, was done to address the DC Circuit's decision in  Louisiana Environmental Action Network v. EPA. Many of these other  NESHAPs were also found to be unnecessary during the EPA's risk review.  In analyzing the impacts of these other rules, the EPA was unable to  quantify any associated public health benefits and concluded they could  shut down facilities or impose public health disbenefits on Americans.  These rules, while regulating different source categories, were  promulgated under the same legal authority.

This application of section 112 of the Clean Air Act runs contrary to  congressional intent. Section 112 of the Clean Air Act was enacted to  protect public health and the environment. It was not enacted to  promulgate costly, unnecessary regulations that do not protect public  health and the environment or to write rules that have no public health  benefits.

The EPA has announced it will reconsider the integrated iron and  steel NESHAP, the coke ovens NESHAP, the lime manufacturing NESHAP, and  many other NESHAPs promulgated under the same legal authority. I  applaud EPA Administrator Zeldin for his efforts to fix these flawed  rules that are inconsistent with the law, just like the NESHAP for  rubber tire manufacturing.

I am proud to have supported H.J. Res. 61.