Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688160/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-with-respect-to-energy


Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I rise today in support of my friend from  North Dakota, Senator Hoeven's Congressional Review Act resolution to  block the implementation of the Biden administration's waste emissions  charge, otherwise known as the natural gas tax.

Since the day this regulation was finalized last November, I pledged  that I would work with President Trump and my colleagues in the  Congress to repeal this misguided, anti-energy tax. Today in the  Senate, that is exactly what we are working to do.

We must recognize that we are in a critical moment for American  energy. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation has found  that over the next 10 years, due to a rise in energy consumption and  the early retirement of our existing fossil fuel generation, our  country could face major electric generation and reliability concerns.

We must take action now to ensure that our future demand is met, that  the lights remain on, our homes remain warm, and our economy keeps  moving for Americans all across this country. We can do this by  continuing to invest in natural gas.

Over 60 percent of Americans every day heat their homes, their water,  or their food with natural gas. Natural gas is responsible for over 40  percent of the electricity generation and fuels more than half of our  industrial sector's process heat.

While the natural gas tax fails to recognize this reality, let's look  at what is  true. Fracking and shale gas have both revolutionized and transformed  American energy, leading to lower prices, job growth, and increased  American energy security. According to the Energy Information  Administration, the rapid expansion of natural gas-fired powerplants in  this country has decreased the power sector's carbon dioxide emissions  by 35 percent over the last 25 years. Natural gas has the potential to  further reduce American greenhouse gas emissions if we continue to  increase production.

Natural gas is an affordable, reliable, and clean source of energy  vital to our country and our economy. We should be expanding natural  gas production, not restricting it. Instead, the natural gas tax will  constrain American natural gas production, leading to increased energy  prices and providing a boost to the production of natural gas in  Russia.

Simply put, repealing the natural gas tax is a win for our economy, a  win for our national security, and a win for our environment.

As part of establishing this tax, the Democrats' so-called Inflation  Reduction Act ordered the EPA to revise its subpart W requirements in  order to facilitate the reporting and calculation of the tax. The EPA's  subpart W revisions blatantly disregard and overstep even the partisan  mandates of the IRA and would excessively increase the tax burden on  American energy under this natural gas tax.

The revised emission factors within subpart W reporting requirements  make broad assumptions about oil and gas operations and technologies  that will lead to inaccurate reporting for many owners and operators.  The rule would not only radically expand the scope of emissions  required to be reported by each facility under the Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, but it also excessively expands the number of  facilities that are covered by subpart W and consequently responsible  to pay the natural gas tax.

Due to this uninformed and artificial overestimate of U.S. methane  emissions, some smaller operators who were once below the waste  emissions threshold are now at risk of seeing their reported methane  emissions inflated and owing large sums under the natural gas tax.

If not repealed, this rule will arbitrarily increase the costs and  burden of reporting under subpart W, motivated by the Democrats'  interest in growing the revenues generated by their natural gas tax.  This will make it even more difficult and expensive to produce,  transport, and consume American natural gas and in turn will hurt both  American families who rely on the energy and the environment of the  communities we live in.

It is important that we note that our effort today works in tandem  with this Chamber's recently passed budget resolution.

As chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, I have  long intended to stop the natural gas tax, and we will continue to  pursue this through the reconciliation process.

Today's vote on the CRA provides all Senators the opportunity to put  our vote on record after witnessing the Biden's EPA bait and switch on  the implementation of this misguided policy. I encourage my colleagues  to support the CRA that is central to our mission of American energy  dominance and reject this tax that will bolster our adversaries,  increase energy costs on American families, and put our energy future  at risk.

I would like to yield, but before I do that, I would like to thank my  colleague from Iowa for letting me step in front of her to make my  speech. I appreciate that. I know she will be supporting this.