Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690524/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I rise today in support of my friend from  Utah, Senator Curtis, and his Congressional Review Act resolution to  overturn the final rule of the Biden Environmental Protection Agency's  review of final rule reclassification of major sources as area sources.

This misguided rule would remove a major incentive for dozens of  industries to reduce emissions. It would further saddle American energy  producers and manufacturers with regulatory costs and burdens and,  simply put, operates under a premise that is purely unfair.

Under this rule, once you classify as a major source, you are always  considered a major source even though--you would even be prohibited  from ever achieving an ``area source'' status again even if your  emissions output decreased below the applicable threshold. This tells  American manufacturing and energy leaders that no matter what you do,  you will always operate under the strictest regulatory standard  available. We should instead provide incentives for industries to lower  their emissions and keep alive the option of returning to an area  source once emissions are reduced.

Over the last 20 years, no other country has reduced its emissions  like the United States, and we do not need overly restrictive  regulations to continue this.

Giving our private sector the ability to innovate on a sensible  timeline is a different approach than the inflexible, top-down mandate  that became accustom over the past 4 years.

The good news is, every Member of this Chamber now has the  opportunity to right this wrong and reinstate the rule in place before  that, which allowed for reclassification of these sources.

The former rule, which was put into place by President Trump's first  administration, encourages industries to take proactive steps to reduce  emissions without increasing regulatory burdens. The results during  President Trump's first term were overwhelmingly clear: Source  reclassification reduces hazardous air pollution in our communities.

We need to take every opportunity available to rightsize regulatory  requirements prohibiting our ability to revitalize American  manufacturing and achieve energy dominance, while taking steps that  reduce emissions through innovative technologies that I have advocated  for alongside my colleagues across both aisles of this Chamber.

We need to remember that our manufacturing, energy, and environmental  policies do not need to be at odds with one another. A robust  manufacturing sector, energy reliability, and a clean environment are  not mutually exclusive.

I am proud to join in this effort alongside Senator Curtis, my  colleague on the Environment and Public Works Committee. This is an  opportunity to return to commonsense environmental policy, and I  encourage my colleagues to join us in supporting this resolution.