Chiricahua National Park Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700694/chiricahua-national-park-act


Ms. ELFRETH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6380,  offered by my colleague, Representative Ciscomani of Arizona, which  would redesignate the Chiricahua National Monument as the Chiricahua  National Park.

Located in the unique Sky Island ecosystem of southeastern Arizona,  Chiricahua National Monument is known as the Wonderland of Rocks, which  sounds magical. This unique and stunning landscape is filled with  pinnacles, spires, and balancing rocks that inspire a sense of awe and  wonder.

Chiricahua's rock formations are also a biodiversity hotspot that  supports a variety of wildlife amid the flowering desert environment.  This includes Apache foxes, javelinas, black bears, mountain lions,  white-tailed deer, and over 200 bird species.

The monument is truly a special place that protects beautiful and  important ecosystems, but that is only a part of its story. Tribal  communities have deep ties and connections to the landscape.

Justine Jimmie, the deputy attorney general of the San Carlos Apache  Tribe, testified on this proposal during the 2024 hearing before the  House Committee on Natural Resources. Her written statement noted:  ``The land that is now Chiricahua National Monument has been our  homeland since time immemorial--long before the formation of the United  States and before the U.S. Cavalry took our land to give to settlers,  pioneers, and miners.''

This history is a history that cannot be ignored, which is why Tribal  engagement has been such a critical component in building support for  this bill, and I thank the bill sponsor for doing that.

The bill ensures Tribes can continue to access important and sacred  sites, even permitting temporary closure of areas of the park for  Tribal ceremonies. That is a key part of upholding our trust  obligations and ensuring Tribal support for this redesignation.

The National Park Service itself has noted that the wealth of  cultural and natural resources across Chiricahua's landscape makes it a  strong candidate for national park status.

I am excited about the prospect of designating our Nation's next  national park, but I also want to be very clear about what comes next.  Our parks and public lands have been short-staffed and underresourced  by the current administration, with nearly a quarter of the National  Park Service staff departing the agency, some voluntarily and many  others involuntarily, since the beginning of last year.

Madam Speaker, after approving the designation of this new national  park, I urge for full resources and full staffing so that it can meet  its mission.

As Congress continues to come together to create new national parks  to protect our Nation's most special places, we must continue to do  everything in our power to make sure our national parks have the  staffing and resources they need for the next 250 years and beyond.

Ms. ELFRETH. Madam Speaker, I thank the sponsor of the bill, and I  urge my colleagues to support this exciting legislation to create  America's next national park.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.