Gateway Partnership Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700706/gateway-partnership-act


Ms. ELFRETH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5254, offered by my  colleagues Representative Bell and Representative Wagner of Missouri,  which will support the relationship between Gateway Arch National Park  and the Gateway Arch Park Foundation.

The Gateway Arch Park Foundation was formed in 2009 to help fund and  coordinate the CityArchRiver project, a transformational revamp of the  Mississippi Riverfront and Kiener Plaza, right under the iconic arch,  that greatly improved public safety and the overall visitor experience.

Since then, the foundation's partnership with the National Park  Service has thrived. This is exactly the type of public-private  partnership we need across all of our national parks.

As the official philanthropic partner of the park, the foundation  hosts several popular events, including Blues at the Arch and  Winterfest, both of which draw thousands of visitors and generate  significant revenue that is reinvested back into supporting the park.

The bill we are considering today establishes a new pilot program  that would allow the foundation to host private events at Gateway Arch  National Park.

This will allow the foundation to host more events and potentially  generate even more resources to support the ongoing management of the  park.

The authority granted by the bill is a powerful tool when used  appropriately, but it cannot become an excuse or rationale to supplant  or cut funding from the National Park Service or its staff, especially  now when the agency is being pushed to the limit by this  administration.

Public-private partnerships like this one managed by the Gateway Arch  Foundation are essential. They provide critical support through the  National Park System, but we must remember that the agency has lost  nearly 25 percent of its full-time staff since the beginning of last  year. That figure is neither sustainable nor rational.

Expanding partnership tools should not be an excuse to replace the  expertise and experience of the dedicated professionals at the National  Park Service.

With that context in mind, this bill requires careful guardrails.  Thanks to the cooperation of my colleagues across the aisle, H.R. 5254  will allow managers of the Gateway Arch to test out a time-limited  authority. The bill includes significant safeguards for National Park  Service-sponsored events, cost recovery authority, and robust reporting  requirements so we can understand the full scope and impact of this new  pilot project.

Allowing a philanthropic partner to have exclusive after-hours access  to park facilities will be a unique arrangement within the National  Park System. I thank the majority for working with us to ensure it  includes the right checks and balances.

Madam Speaker, I also thank my colleague and friend Representative  Bell from Missouri for introducing this legislation and advocating for  his hometown national park, hopefully creating a blueprint that could  be utilized across this country.

While most Americans know about the iconic St. Louis Arch, famously  known as the Gateway to the West, not everyone knows about the full  history of the site. The park is also home to the Old Courthouse, the  site where Dred Scott first tried and unsuccessfully sued for his  freedom from slavery.

This is a transformational American story. While President Trump is  doing his worst to sanitize American history and remove signs at  national parks across the country, boosting its visibility is more  important now than ever.

Celebrating 250 years of this great Nation means honoring and  acknowledging the progress we have made since the days of the Dred  Scott decision, not burying the truth or the full telling of our shared  history.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and  I yield back the balance of my time.