Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program Amendment Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700752/lower-colorado-river-multi-species-conservation-program-amendment-act-of-2025


Ms. ELFRETH. Madam Speaker, if I could, this is the last of a  marathon of bills. I think the breadth of the bills we saw today are a  testament to this committee, from protecting sequoias in California to  addressing invasive blue catfish in the Chesapeake to supporting  national parks in Mississippi, Missouri, and Arizona to the bill before  us now. I am just in awe of this committee's work product.

I thank the chair, the ranking member, and the committee staff. This  is what Americans sent us to do, and I am grateful to be a part of it.  I thank my colleague from Virginia for his professionalism, as well.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 831, offered by my  colleague Representative Calvert of California.

As we stand here today, the seven basin States are continuing  negotiations on an agreement that will shape the future of the Colorado  River, which has ramifications across the region.

The post-2026 operations are critical to managing the already  overallocated river in a changing climate which has led to  unprecedented drought conditions and declining water levels at key  reservoirs.

I appreciate the work the States have already done to move toward a  solution  and urge them and the Department of the Interior to continue working  together to reach an agreement.

The Department of the Interior must also ensure that the 30 Tribal  nations in the basin are part of a long-term solution, as part of the  long history of collaboration in the basin, to accomplish the shared  goal of continued delivery of water and power while protecting  ecosystems.

Lower water levels have accelerated the spread of invasive, nonnative  species and the reduction of critical habitat for native fish and  wildlife.

H.R. 831 authorizes an interest-bearing account for non-Federal  contributions to the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation  Program, allowing these funds to accrue interest that can be reinvested  back into the program.

This program brings together Federal, State, and local partners to  protect endangered species while also ensuring the continued water operations and maintenance activities of  the Lower Basin. It is funded through a 50/50 cost-sharing agreement  between the Federal Government and the three Lower Basin States.

Currently no non-Federal contributions to the program are held in a  non-interest-bearing account. By authorizing an interest-bearing  account, H.R. 831 will help provide additional funding to further  support the stability of the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species  Conservation Program and help balance water operations and ecosystem  health in the Lower Basin. I urge support of H.R. 831.

Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.  Stanton).

Ms. ELFRETH. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this  critical piece of legislation. I thank the gentleman from Arizona for  helping out today and using the word ``riparian'' on the House floor.  That is always one of my favorite things.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.