Mitigation Action and Watermen Support Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700733/mitigation-action-and-watermen-support-act-of-2026


Ms. ELFRETH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

I am grateful that H.R. 4294, the MAWS Act, is included in today's  suspension package, a piece of legislation I was so proud to work in  partnership in crafting with the gentleman from Virginia.

The Chesapeake Bay, the largest estuary in the Nation that is  responsible for $100 billion in annual economic value, is facing a  critical, albeit delicious threat, the invasive blue catfish. These  blue catfish were introduced into tidal areas of the bay in the 1970s  for recreational purposes under the assumption that they would stay in  the freshwater and not venture into the brackish water of the larger  bay. That assumption has turned out to be catastrophically wrong. Blue  catfish are now not only in every tidal area of the Chesapeake Bay  watershed, but they are the most abundant biomass in many of them, and  the threat is real.

Blue catfish can live up to 20 years. They can weigh up to 100  pounds. They eat approximately 10 percent of their body weight every  day and have an extremely fast metabolism. The imbalance my colleague  from Virginia just spoke about in our ecosystem has created a situation  where because they eat so much, their meals frequently consist of  staples of our seafood industry and staples of Maryland and Virginia's  culture: baby blue crabs, rockfish, even oysters, causing significant  economic damage to our seafood industry at large, which is a central  part of our economies in the bay region.

Making matters worse, these blue catfish, because they are invasive,  have no natural predators in the bay to control that population growth.  Because of this, they now estimate there are tens of millions of these  fish throughout the entire Chesapeake Bay region, and that is growing  rapidly.

The good news, Madam Speaker, is that blue catfish are nutritious and  delicious, and they are high in protein and omega-3s. According to a  new report from bay scientists, these catfish do not retain PFAS like  other fish.

The market for human consumption has grown significantly across the  region, due to a concerted marketing campaign, processors who make bold  investments, chefs who are willing to take a risk with blue catfish  dishes popping up in restaurant menus, and filets on sale at your local  market.

However, that market has a few critical limitations that are  inhibiting our ability to control this catastrophe. First, blue catfish  are the only fish inspected by the USDA. All other fish are under the  jurisdiction of the FDA, and this adds significant hurdles for seafood  processors and watermen who want to sell blue catfish for human  consumption.

I would be remiss, Madam Speaker, if I didn't highlight that this  very red  tape, this bureaucracy, is a limitation placed on the industry by the  Congress itself.

Second, State health regulations indicate that blue catfish filet is  safe for human consumption in fish no larger than 25 pounds. This means  there are tens of millions of fish over 25 pounds or up to 85 pounds  actually, that watermen struggle to sell because they cannot be  processed for human consumption, and the market is not there.

Fortunately, they are completely safe for inclusion in the pet food  industry.

Third, on the other end of the spectrum, there are millions of more  than 1- to 2-pound blue catfish that are not big enough to filet and  consequently aren't sold for processing for people. The smallest fish  are among the most aggressive predators of the species that our  industry relies on, stealthily eating eggs in otherwise hard-to-access  habitats.

We have made significant critical progress like the USDA grant  program which provides financial support to processors and food banks,  but there remains the problem that only the very narrow window of 2- to  25-pound fish can be sold for human consumption.

We are left without a solution to the question: What are watermen  supposed to do with every other size?

They can't just throw them back.

We can do our part, everybody here, and everybody watching at home,  including my mother, can do their part in ordering the blue catfish  when we see it on a menu. Again, it is delicious and nutritious. This  is not a problem we are capable of eating our way out of.

That is why I introduced the bipartisan MAWS Act, alongside House  Natural Resources Vice Chairman Wittman, to invest funds to address  invasive blue catfish and strengthen our local seafood economy, while  also providing a new source of protein to pets nationwide.

The MAWS Act establishes this pilot program within the NOAA  Chesapeake Bay Office to facilitate a market for Chesapeake Bay blue  catfish in the pet and animal food industry.

This program will complement the growing market for human consumption  by forging new partnerships with pet and animal food manufacturers  nationwide that otherwise do not have a footprint in the Chesapeake  Bay, and it would establish a sustainable outlet for fish that are  outside the window for human consumption by giving watermen and  processors more opportunities to sell the smallest and largest blue  catfish.

NOAA will enter into cooperative agreements with pet and animal food  manufacturers to ensure watermen and processors are properly  incentivized to catch blue catfish in the bay, and establish  transportation, processing, and manufacturing structures for that long- term market need.

By having a customer base with consistent and reliable price points,  watermen can feel confident that it is worth their while to catch blue  catfish of all shapes and sizes, knowing there will be somebody at the  end of the dock to buy it for a fair price.

Price points for this pilot program will be established in a  collaborative effort between watermen, processors, manufacturers,  scientists, and economists.

We spent a year crafting this bill, compromising to make sure that  everybody's voices were heard and everybody had a seat at the table,  ensuring every corner of the industry has a seat and a voice in the  decision of what the baseline market price for fillet, byproduct, and  whole fish will be for this program.

Additionally, in the many months of engagement on this bill with  watermen, processors, and manufacturers, we learned that transportation  mechanisms are a complex web of coordinated pickups, often with  processors going right to the front door of the homes of watermen to  pick up their daily catch.

In order to make participation in this program feasible and promote  the establishment of long-term transportation processes, 15 percent of  the total grant funding can be used by grantees to establish these new  routes across the Chesapeake Bay in partnership with established routes  led by processors.

Throughout this 2-year pilot program, NOAA will collect data on the  ecological and economic impacts of the program. NOAA will report back  to Congress on best practices, lessons learned, and recommendations for  additional species in other watersheds that may benefit from this  program.

Our seafood industry across the Chesapeake Bay is the heart of our  economy, but many factors far outside the control of watermen and  processors have left the industry in a dire situation. Extreme weather,  deep freezes, unexpected waterway discharge, and a national  affordability crisis are threatening the livelihoods of our watermen,  not to mention the ever-increasing blue catfish population.

The MAWS Act, again, is the result of intensive collaboration and  creativity of stakeholders across the watershed as we sought to address  the ecological and economic damage of the invasive species in a way  that complements--again, complements--and strengthens the growing  market for human consumption.

This is not an either/or approach. This is a yes/and, all-hands-on- deck approach.

If this innovative approach is successful, it is our hope that a  similar tool can be utilized to combat invasive aquatic species in  other waterways across the Nation. Think carp that are wreaking havoc  in the Mississippi River and the Great Lakes. Think snakeheads that are  invading North Carolina, Missouri, Arkansas, and more.

I am proud to lead the effort of this one-of-a-kind legislation in  partnership with my colleagues from Virginia, Representative Wittman  and Representative Kiggans, as well as Representative Hoyer.

I thank the chair and his staff for providing such technical  assistance to this bill, and I thank my colleagues for supporting this  bill.

Ms. ELFRETH. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time to  close.

Madam Speaker, again, I reiterate my appreciation to the gentleman  from Virginia (Mr. Wittman), the committee staff, and all the  stakeholders who spent the last year crafting this creative solution to  a problem that threatens the economy and ecology of the greatest  natural resource we have in Maryland and Virginia, the Chesapeake Bay.

This is an innovative solution. When you visit with other folks who  are policymakers, what we hate to hear is, ``We have always done it  this way,'' or, ``We have never done it that way.''

This moment, this crisis that we are experiencing in the Chesapeake  Bay, requires innovation, creativity, partnerships, and collaboration.  That is exactly what the MAWS Act represents, and I urge my colleagues  to support this legislation.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.