Protecting and Serving Our Firefighters


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689637/protecting-and-serving-our-firefighters


Ms. ELFRETH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of Mark Falkenhan, a  Baltimore County volunteer firefighter and Secret Service agent who  perished on the third floor of an apartment building in 2011.

I rise on behalf of Nathan Flynn, a Howard County firefighter who  tragically died in the basement of a large house fire in 2018.

I rise on behalf of Frederick County firefighter Captain Josh Laird,  who we lost in 2022 when he, too, fell through a floor and into a  basement fire.

After each of these tragedies and tragedies just like them across  this country, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and  Health, or NIOSH, produced a report examining what went wrong and,  crucially, how to prevent these tragedies from occurring moving  forward. Those reports went on to save untold lives.

In Mark's case, the NIOSH report spurred a new emphasis on  identifying and communicating the presence of a basement upon first  arrival.

In Nathan's case, the NIOSH report exposed how outdated practices in  building ventilation and fire flow management were killing firefighters  across the country, ushering in nationwide changes in fire ground  operations.

In Josh's case, the NIOSH report was instructive in identifying and  operating over a basement fire.

Maryland's fire community, like so many in our country, is small and  well-connected. Each fatality is felt widely and personally.

Following a tragedy, it can be difficult without the proper technical  resources to make accurate and objective recommendations and changes,  which is why the NIOSH investigations and reports are so crucial.

These NIOSH reports are critical for firefighting communities in  Maryland and around our country because they save lives. When released,  crews across this country gather around kitchen tables and read the  reports together.

In Maryland, our firefighters have told me that in those moments and  for the first time they were able to walk through an incident guided by  photographs, construction drawings, timetables, graphs, and supporting  scientific evidence and that recommendations from these reports can be  revolutionary to how they fight fires and save lives.

NIOSH produces these reports through its Fire Fighter Fatality  Investigation and Prevention Program, which was already significantly  understaffed, with only five investigators investigating these  incidents across the Nation. At this staffing level, it would take up  to 4 years to thoroughly research and release a report after each line- of-duty death.

That was until 2 months ago.

Under the banner of government efficiency and the claim to reduce  waste, DOGE has fired three of the five investigators, which means  longer wait times for our first responders who deserve answers as to  how their brothers and sisters died in the line of duty and,  critically, what changes need to be made to prevent such a death moving  forward.

Another victim of the reckless work of DOGE was the National  Firefighter Registry for Cancer, which tracked cancer cases and deaths  of firefighters.

Cancer is now the leading cause of death for firefighters, and this  database was critical to tracking health and safety improvements for  firefighters and improving working conditions. In another sweeping  effort to cut costs, DOGE eliminated the entire office. Now, this  cancer registry is no longer maintained or updated.

When the President talks about DOGE and government efficiency, I am  thinking about the firefighters whose lives he is putting in harm's  way. We owe it to firefighters across this country who sacrifice so  much to keep our families safe. At the very least, we can be there for  them when they are exposed to cancer or lose members to line-of-duty  deaths.

These jobs are difficult and inherently dangerous, but they do not  need to be deadly.

These actions by the administration are cruel and unsafe. This is not  what the American people wanted. This is not what they voted for.

Lost in this desperate mission to cut costs at all costs, we have  forgotten the greater public good, the public good that government must  maintain and deliver for our constituents, our obligations to one  another, and, most importantly, our obligation to those who run into  burning buildings and who keep our communities safe.

The Fire Fighter Fatality Investigation and Prevention Program and  the National Firefighter Registry for Cancer are the Federal Government  at its best.

These civil servants who serve our first responders should not just  be reinstated. Frankly, their offices should be doubled.

Perhaps these positions were eliminated as an oversight. Perhaps  these hardworking, passionate civil servants were merely line items on  a budget to some cost-cutter who didn't know any better.

That is why I rise today to give voice to these cuts, to put faces to  these draconian measures, and to plead with my colleagues across the  aisle and with the President himself to do what is right.

Restore these offices. Reinstate these civil servants. Protect and  serve those who protect and serve us.