Reauthorization of Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2009


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700718/reauthorization-of-integrated-coastal-and-ocean-observation-system-act-of-2009


Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to support H.R. 2294, bipartisan  legislation to reauthorize the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation  System Act, or IOOS, a commonsense, science-based solution that brings  together my colleagues on both sides of the aisle around our shared  commitment to protecting our coastal communities.

I am proud to work with my colleague, Representative Ezell, as one of  the bipartisan group of 25 cosponsors on this critical issue.

Timely ocean and coastal data is essential to keeping our coastal  economies, like the one I represent, running and to protecting our  communities.

H.R. 2294 reauthorizes the IOOS program that delivers that invaluable  data and that helps us with everything from our emergency preparedness  to our fisheries management programs in the States that we represent.  IOOS helps to track changing ocean temperatures, measure wave activity,  predict harmful algal blooms, monitor sea level rise, and improve storm  surge forecasts that help emergency managers make lifesaving evacuation  decisions.

IOOS provides data to States, ports, the Coast Guard, FEMA, and any  other business or agency that needs real-time access to ocean  conditions.

With natural disasters causing an estimated $12 billion in average  annual damages, sustained investment in IOOS remains essential to  ensure accurate weather and climate forecasts that protect our  infrastructure, public safety, and economic resilience.

This bipartisan bill extends IOOS through 2030, strengthening  partnerships with regional ocean observation systems and ensuring that  critical ocean data continues to flow to Federal, State, and local  decisionmakers who depend on it.

From the Gulf Coast to the golden coast of the Chesapeake Bay, when  Republicans and Democrats work together on science-based solutions, we  can protect both our natural resources and the communities that depend  on them.

Ms. ELFRETH. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this  critical legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.