Save Our Sequoias Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700703/save-our-sequoias-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R. 2709, the Save Our Sequoias Act,  offered by my colleague, Representative Fong from California.

The Save Our Sequoias Act establishes a framework to support the  ongoing restoration and recovery of giant sequoias, an iconic keystone  species found only in the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada mountains  in California.

Sequoias are the largest trees on Earth. Some of them grow to be more  than 300 feet tall. They are some of the most fire-resilient species,  even evolving to need frequent, low-intensity fires to reproduce and  survive, but climate change, drought, and historic fire suppression  have led to catastrophic wildfires that are burning hotter and more  intensely than ever before. These climate change-driven wildfires are  posing an existential threat to giant sequoias, which are struggling to  survive.

Over the past decade, nearly 20 percent of the entire population of  giant sequoias has died. H.R. 2709 is a targeted bill that would codify  existing emergency response efforts by the National Park Service, the  U.S. Forest Service, and partners to promote reforestation and reduce  future wildfire risk in giant sequoia groves.

These efforts are working. The Giant Sequoia Lands Coalition reported  that 2024 was a landmark year for conservation work, with restoration  and fuels-reduction efforts successfully completed across nearly half  of the total sequoia growth acreage.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my Republican colleagues sincerely for their  willingness to negotiate in good faith with us on this bill. In our  shared commitment to protecting these iconic trees, these national  treasures, we came together to address many of our outstanding  concerns, ensuring that new authorities provided by the bill prioritize  ecological integrity and science-backed decisionmaking without  undermining core environmental standards.

The bill was strengthened by that very legislative process. It is a  clear, old-fashioned example of how bipartisan negotiations can produce  balanced, strategic approaches to forest, wildfire, and public land  management. It is an approach I urge the Natural Resources Committee to  continue to take.

Looking at the bigger picture here, Mr. Speaker, this bill is just  one piece of the puzzle. Our Federal land management agencies,  including the National Park Service and the U.S. Forest Service,  require funding and staffing to fulfill their congressionally mandated  missions. These agencies cannot protect the giant sequoia without  Congress giving them the necessary tools to carry out that work. New  authorities alone will not save the sequoia.

The survival of one of America's most extraordinary national icons is  at stake, and I urge Congress to take seriously its responsibility to  support and steward our national parks, forests, and public lands from  coast to coast.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. ELFRETH. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.