Stop the Republican Affordability Crisis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699582/stop-the-republican-affordability-crisis


Ms. ELFRETH. Mr. Speaker, we are taking up time on the floor today  because, from coast to coast, I guarantee that we are all hearing the  same message from our constituents: The cost of living is just too  high.

I feel it, too, as the daughter of a single mom who made everything  work because of access to affordable childcare, as a millennial with  student loan debt that I am still years away from paying off, and as a  first-time homeowner who finally was able to buy a house in the  district that I represent after renting for over two decades.

This is something I believe everyone in this Chamber, Republicans and  Democrats alike, can agree on: Congress must do more to cover the  crushing costs of electric bills, groceries, prescription drugs,  housing, and more.

While I would love to take a full hour today running through what we  can and should do on all these crises, I have only a few minutes to  focus on one.

Mr. Speaker, from my very first conversations 9 years ago, when I  first asked my neighbors to place their trust in me to represent them,  to even just this weekend at the grocery store, I have heard from  parents, grandparents, and small businesses alike that the childcare  crisis is suppressing our economy and forcing families to make  impossible decisions.

It is more expensive to send one infant to daycare than it is to send  an 18-year-old to the University of Maryland.

Like every State, Maryland saw devastating losses in childcare  providers after the pandemic. We lost 15 percent, or 1,135, home-based  childcare providers, and that further pressured the market and limited  options for families.

I come to this floor with good news. I am proud to share that, in our  State, education and nonprofit leaders are working to find innovative  solutions to help families afford childcare through scholarships and  tax credits, but also, and this is crucial, to grow the supply of  childcare providers and create critically needed seats.

The Growing Opportunities for Family Child Care program has opened  nearly 300 daycares, or 2,000 childcare slots, in just 3 years by  providing training, coaching, and resources to individuals who happen  to be almost entirely women-based businesses in opening and operating  family care childcare businesses.

Now, this is a win-win-win. We create more jobs in childcare, allow  more parents to enter the workforce, and lower the cost of care through  increased supply.

As a Congress, we need to work together to find commonsense policies  that will make it easier for our neighbors not just to get by but to  get ahead.

Mr. Speaker, I call on my colleagues to join me in tackling issues  head-on together through difficult conversations as we seek to do the  unfashionable thing here in Washington: find common ground. That is  because that is the fundamental promise of our country: to be able to  give our kids and the next generation a better life than we had. We can  only do that by offering real, comprehensive, innovative solutions to  the affordability crisis that families across this country are  experiencing.