Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Mr. Speaker, I have to say it is like deja vu all over again because  we were on the House floor about a month ago to have a debate about the  House Republican budget reconciliation resolution, which included  trillions of dollars in big giveaways that mostly benefit the top 1  percent, paid for, in part, by the biggest Medicaid cuts in American  history, combined with trillions of dollars in new debt.

Here we are again a month later and after the Senate Republicans made  their changes, we have even more in tax-cut giveaways. Instead of $4.5  trillion, it is now $7 trillion, most of which one penny doesn't even  pay for it, except, again, for cuts to Medicaid, as well as cuts to  other programs.

Now, there is a little bit of confusion here on a couple aspects, and  I will quickly address them.

First, on tax cuts, there is no question that there will not be a tax  increase on working Americans. There is widespread agreement, on both  sides of the aisle, when it comes to tax cuts on those making under a  million dollars a year.

In fact, in the Rules Committee a few weeks ago, a Democratic Member  offered an amendment to say we agree.  Where the disagreement lies is in those who make more than a million  dollars a year. The top 1 percent, in fact, the top one-half of 1  percent.

Every Democratic Member voted in favor of that amendment that would  make clear we would be extending the tax cuts for everyone who makes up  to $1 million. That is a massive amount of money. Every Democrat voted  for it. Every Republican voted against it.

Don't be confused and don't be scared by this scare tactic. If you  are a middle-class American, if you are in the 99 percent, you will not  see your taxes go up next year. There is no question about that. What  is at issue is the tax cuts for multimillionaires, billionaires, and  big corporations.

Now, there is another part that has gotten confused or obscured, and  that is with respect to the Medicaid cuts. As CBO confirmed in a letter  they sent to Mr. Pallone and to me, there is no question that this  piece of legislation before us calls for hundreds of billions of  dollars in Medicaid cuts, the largest in American history.

There are some on the other side who have said the word ``Medicaid''  technically doesn't exist in the bill, therefore, these cuts don't  exist. Give me a break.

The instruction in this piece of legislation directs the Energy and  Commerce Committee to identify at least $880 billion of cuts in those  programs where they have jurisdiction.

Guess what. Mr. Speaker, 93 percent of their jurisdiction is Medicare  and Medicaid. You can literally cut everything else that they have  jurisdiction over and that only gets you about $380 billion, so at  least $500 billion, by definition, in order to follow and carry out  these instructions, have to come from Medicaid.

Now, finally, because I know we have a lot of speakers on this side,  there is something additional in this new version of the reconciliation  resolution. It is called current policy baseline. It is a fraud, and to  House Republicans' credit, actually, in their proposal, they didn't  rely on this fraud.

Current policy baseline, with a straight face, wants you to believe  that permanent extension of the tax cuts won't cost one dime. This  would establish a dangerous new precedent here.

For 51 years, we have operated under the Budget and Impoundment  Control Act. For 51 years, we have had the Congressional Budget Office  and we have had these rules, as imperfect as they may be, that we have  to follow, that things have to be paid for within a 10-year window.

Current policy baseline means that rule goes out the window. If we  think that, in establishing this new precedent, this will be the only  time it is ever used, that is crazy. If we think that we have a  national debt issue right now, which we both agree on, it will get far,  far worse if the new standard becomes this phony fraud of current  policy baseline.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to the rest of the debate, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the  gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Pallone), the ranking member of the  Energy and Commerce Committee.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Craig), the ranking member of the  Agriculture Committee.

Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding  time.

Mr. Speaker, this budget is a bad deal. It takes billions of dollars  from programs that working families rely on and gives that money to the  very wealthiest Americans in the form of $7 trillion in tax breaks.

It slashes funding for programs like Medicaid. Nearly 2 million  people in my State of New Jersey rely on Medicaid for healthcare. It  raises the healthcare costs for folks who get their coverage through  the Affordable Care Act. In my district, folks could see their premiums  go up by $1,400 per year under this budget.

Though I know my colleagues across the aisle are very concerned with  the Federal debt, this budget adds more than $5 trillion to the  deficit. This is a rip-off for working families, and I strongly  encourage my colleagues to oppose this measure.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Plaskett), a distinguished  member of the House Committee on the Budget.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, the majority leader just said  something absolutely remarkable. He said that there should be a parade  for President Trump.

I have very good news for him. There is going to be a parade for  President Trump thrown by Donald Trump in honor of himself paid for by  taxpayers to the tune of $92 million.

Oh, but to the 72 million Americans watching at home and are on  Medicaid: You are still going to get your Medicaid cut.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Escobar), who is a distinguished member of  the Budget Committee

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Kaptur), who is a distinguished member of  the Budget Committee.

(Mr. NEAL asked and was given permission to revise and extend his  remarks.)

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Chu), a distinguished member of the  Budget Committee.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Omar), a distinguished member of the  Budget Committee.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Balint), a distinguished member of the  Budget Committee.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Jayapal), a distinguished member of  the Budget Committee.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much  time is remaining.

Mr. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.  Stansbury), distinguished member of  the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

Mr. Speaker, I think it has been a good debate that has brought out a  couple of clear facts. Even though President Trump directed House  Republicans last night to ``close your eyes'' and just pass the  resolution, I believe the speakers on this side have opened the eyes of  the American people.

These are indisputable facts: the largest cut to Medicaid in American  history in order to help pay for a tax cut, 83 percent of which goes to  the richest 1 percent of Americans.

Indeed, this is a big, beautiful bill for billionaires.