Disaster Relief for Hawaii


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701379/disaster-relief-for-hawaii


Ms. TOKUDA. Madam Speaker, last week, two back-to-back storms brought  the most catastrophic flooding Hawaii has seen in over 20 years:  landslides, washed-out roads, emergency evacuations, and destruction in  every single county.

What we saw during these Kona lows was a hard truth: Nature will find  a way, and water will go where she wants.

We grew up preparing for hurricane season. That was a threat that we  knew. Now, disasters don't wait their turn. Hawaii experiences  wildfires and floods year-round. What we are experiencing today is more  than our infrastructure was ever built to handle.

I saw it firsthand. Roads ripped apart as water surged through storm  drains too small to contain it. Four feet of rock and silt slammed  against guardrails, pushed down from the mountains. Fields flattened  where water jumped its bank, bypassed overgrown ditches, and raced  toward the ocean.

In its path were homes, cars, farms, hospitals, schools, churches,  entire communities, our ``family''; ``ohana.''

Madam Speaker, even in our darkest hour, I also saw Hawaii at its  very best: neighbors showing up for our neighbors, no one waiting to be  asked; volunteers feeding families; and first responders and healthcare  workers going above and beyond. That is aloha. That is who we are.

Now, we must match that same spirit with action. We need a whole-of- government approach in response right now: disaster, SNAP, and hot food  waivers for families who can't access their kitchens; debris removal so  that people can begin to rebuild; the Army Corps of Engineers clearing  and dredging our waterways; EPA testing soil and water to keep our  communities safe from whatever ran off the farms or the mountainsides  behind them; and National Health Corps support for wound care, mental  health, and recovery that doesn't end when the water recedes.

To every ``family,'' ``ohana,'' to every friend, and member of our  community back home in Hawaii clearing out the mud, mourning what was  lost, searching for some stable ground again, you are not alone. We see  you. We will always be standing with you. We will not stop fighting to  bring every possible resource to help our communities recover, rebuild,  and come back even stronger.