Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition to this amendment.

Let's be clear: The Exceptional Family Member Program does not pay  for medical care. Its purpose is simple: to ensure that military  families are stationed where the medical and educational services they  need are available.

This amendment misrepresents the mission, and it undermines it.

We ask our servicemembers to sacrifice so much for this country, in  many cases, even their lives. As a mother, I would never ask them to  sacrifice their child's well-being. That is not just offensive, that is  cruel, and it is inhumane.

Gender-affirming care is healthcare. Denying it sends a harmful  message to military families with transgender children that their  needs, their dignity, who they are, and their very lives do not matter.

In addition, when we harm their families and when we harm their  children, we undermine the very readiness we are so focused on as a  military, the very people whom we rely on to be on the front lines,  defending this Nation every day.

Our servicemembers put everything on the line, and we should do the  same for them. Vote ``no'' on this amendment.

Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition.

Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition to this amendment  striking funding for the Taiwan Security Cooperation Initiative.

Coming from Hawaii, on the front lines of the Indo-Pacific, I know  firsthand how critically important it is to keep our ties in this  region strong.

The Taiwan Security Cooperation Initiative is not just another line  item. It is a vital provision that enables Taiwan to maintain its self- defense capabilities and sends a clear message to both Taipei and  Beijing that the United States is serious about deterrence. It keeps us  out of that war that the sponsor of this amendment is so concerned  about. Cutting this funding would only invite Beijing to push harder,  not pull back.

We say we want to be tough on China, yet here we are entertaining  whether to cut one of the clearest demonstrations of our strength and  resolve. The fact that this amendment has even been made in order  undermines us. Just giving this amendment airtime sows seeds of doubt  in Taiwan as to our support and further emboldens Beijing. This is not,  by any means, a serious amendment.

In this very same bill that we are debating, we are considering  bipartisan provisions that strengthen our defense relations with  Taiwan, expanding DOD's annual readiness assessments, even Republican- led amendments to invite Taiwan into RIMPAC and bolster its energy  security. These are the kinds of amendments that are aligned with the  United States' interests. These are the kinds of amendments that foster  deterrence, not instigate and facilitate Chinese propaganda, as this  one would.

When we question our support for Taiwan outright, as this amendment  does, onlookers will wonder what else are we willing to walk back on?  Who else will we abandon on the line? That is not the message we should  be sending. This amendment is nothing more than a political stunt that  should never have seen the light of day. Beijing is watching, my  friends. Passing this amendment is a win for China. Do not be fooled.

Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Georgia  (Mr. McCormick).

Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to how much time I have  remaining.

Ms. TOKUDA. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the  gentleman from Georgia.

Ms. TOKUDA. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from  Alabama (Mr. Rogers).

Ms. TOKUDA. Madam Speaker, we have heard strong voices from both  sides of the aisle that this is a bad, reckless, dangerous amendment.  Every dollar and day we spend supporting Taiwan is another day we keep  our servicemembers, our children, and our grandchildren out of war.  This is about putting Americans first.

It is a very simple decision. I ask my colleagues to vote ``no.''

Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. TOKUDA. Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to this amendment,  which would create broad exemptions from the Endangered Species Act on  military and National Guard lands. In Hawaii, this would be akin to a  taking.

The idea that protecting endangered species and maintaining readiness  are mutually exclusive is simply false. Across the country, including  in Hawaii, the Department of Defense has shown it can partner with  conservation experts and local communities to safeguard fragile  ecosystems while still meeting its mission.

We should be doing more to hold the Department of Defense accountable  and strengthening these efforts, not giving it a blank check to  disregard environmental laws whenever it claims national security.

In Hawaii, where trust around military land use is damaged, quite  frankly, and lease negotiations are ongoing, accountability is not  optional. A back-door taking of our lands is 100 percent unacceptable.

Allowing this amendment to pass would set a dangerous precedent, undo  decades of progress, and erode community trust. Protecting our  environment and ensuring national defense are not opposing goals. They  are shared responsibilities that we must uphold together.

Madam Chair, I strongly urge my colleagues to reject this amendment.