Cloture Motion


Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, before we broke for the August recess, I  came to the Senate floor to sound the alarm on our rising national debt  and unsustainable fiscal trajectory. Today, I am here to continue this  discussion and remind this body of the dangers we face if we do not  change course.

In fact, just last week, the Congressional Budget Office announced  that our Federal deficit this year alone has already surpassed $2  trillion. If that holds, it will be the third largest deficit accrued  in a single fiscal year in U.S. history, behind only the first 2 years  of the COVID pandemic. To further put it into perspective, this debt  has grown by $700 billion in just the 6 weeks since I spoke about this  issue on the floor. That trajectory is incredibly alarming.

So, in this case, time is money, and time is running out. And as we  approach our next government funding deadline, it is important that we  look back on how we got to this point and what we can do about it.  Let's look back. On September 30, 1996, Congress did something that no  Congress had done in 30 years: It passed all 12 appropriations bills  before the start of the next fiscal year. One year later, Congress  built on that success by working with then-President Clinton to enact  the Balanced Budget Act and set enforceable budget caps.

And what occurred after this series of bipartisan, commonsense  cooperation: a 4-year period of budget surpluses. During that time, our  economy grew, unemployment and inflation rates reached their lowest  levels since the 1960s. Unfortunately, that was the first time since  1969 that our country had experienced a budget surplus, and  unfortunately we have not achieved it since.

But the moral of the story is that progress is possible when we set  politics aside, work in a bipartisan way, and enact commonsense  solutions that benefit all of us.

Unfortunately, we did not stay on that bipartisan, fiscally  responsible path for very long. So let's take a look at what happened  next. In 2001, Congress and President George W. Bush enacted a series  of tax bills. I certainly believe that a good tax bill is one that  provides relief to middle-class families, which are the backbone of our  economy, and ensures that everyone pays their fair share.

But the tax cuts passed during the Bush era did just the opposite,  largely benefiting the highest income earners in our country, and in  the process increased the Federal debt by trillions--trillions--of  dollars. In fact, in just 3 years, these tax laws caused our country to  double the amount of debt that it had accumulated since our Nation was  founded, putting us on a worse financial footing when we later faced  two major wars and a global financial crisis.

After the 2008 financial crisis, many, including myself, knew that we  had to take action to restore fiscal stability, and in the following  years, Congress pursued well-intentioned efforts to put us on a better  financial path, from attempts to limit deficit spending to identifying  fraud, waste, and abuse. But unfortunately, once again, politics got in  the way.

Republicans threatened to default on our debt rather than come to the  table, and this reckless approach led to a permanent extension of the  Bush tax cuts and the first of what would be three downgrades--three  downgrades--to our country's Federal credit rating.

Fast-forward to 2017 when, instead of working with Democrats to enact  responsible tax reform, Republicans followed the same old, tired  script. They pushed through a partisan law that benefitted the  wealthiest Americans and--you guessed it--added $2 trillion to the  national debt. And like the Bush tax cuts, it left us unprepared as a  country when we faced a generational public health crisis. The COVID-19  pandemic left our country in shambles, with millions of people losing  their jobs and shuttering hundreds of thousands of businesses all  across our country.

Congress appropriately stepped up, passed several pieces of  legislation to support American small businesses and workers, and  helped the country to get back on track.

But instead of having the means to pay for this essential support, we  had to incur additional debt. So fast forward now to 2023. Democrats  tried to right the ship by passing the Inflation Reduction Act, which  made a nearly $250 billion downpayment on our national debt while  improving energy security, lowering prescription drug costs, and  creating a more equitable tax code.

This was the first legitimate effort to reduce the deficit since the  Budget Control Act passed 11 years earlier. But, unfortunately, my  Republican colleagues reversed course again by passing the ``Big  Beautiful Mess'' earlier this summer.

Not only did this bill that was passed here this past summer kick  millions of people off their healthcare and make it harder for families  to put food on the table by cutting food assistance, it also added-- let's hear this--it also added $3.5 trillion to the Federal deficit.

For those doing the math at home, after our 4-year run of surpluses  in 2001, the national debt stood at $5.8 trillion. Today, we stand at  more than $37 trillion, all because my Republican colleagues are  seemingly convinced that giving tax cuts to the ultrawealthy will,  somehow, magically help the Nation.

But time and time again, we have seen the same script yield the same  results. This approach simply does not work. Since 2001, $31.6 trillion  has been added to our total debt, and thanks to the ``Big Bad Bill,''  that total is about to get supercharged.

It won't stop there.

Later this month, this body will once again be faced with an  impending fiscal challenge funding the Federal Government. In doing so,  it used to be the bare minimum requirement of Congress. The expectation  of most Americans is we just pass the bare minimum and do that and fund  the government. It has now become an annual struggle.

I stand ready to work with Republicans to pass a true bipartisan-- true bipartisan government funding bill, one that ensures vital  programs remain funded and that our government remains open. Failure to  do so will mean economic catastrophe and a continuation of the trends  of the past 30 years that we have just walked through.

We can't let that happen, and we must work to end these harmful  patterns before it is too late. Working together on the upcoming fiscal  package can be that start.

If the past three decades have shown us anything, it is that there is  precedent for how to put our country on a more sustainable financial  path. We  did it in the late 90s, and we even did it in the early 2010s when we  came to several bipartisan compromises. But if we are going to solve  this, it is going to take real political courage.

The roadmap is certainly there. Now it is just up to each and every  one of us to follow that map.