Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700455/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, on Saturday morning, the United States  military started conducting airstrikes on Iran, dragging America into  yet another war in the Middle East. Since President Trump's reckless  decision to escalate this conflict, at least six Americans have been  killed in service to their country, and many more have been  injured. And President Trump himself has said:

There will likely be more before it ends.

And then he also said:

Well, that's the way it is.

Well, my heart goes out to their families and loved ones, and I will  be forever grateful for their service and for their sacrifice.

It has been days since this attack, but President Trump has yet--has  yet--to make it clear to Congress--and, more importantly, to the  American people--what exactly our objectives are. What does victory  look like? What he does say seems to change daily, if not more  frequently.

The American people have a right to know the facts and a right to  know the truth.

And our Constitution leaves no room for doubt that Congress--not the  President--has the sole power to declare war. And that check is in  place for a very important reason: Our Founders did not want to place  the immense power over whether or not to go to war in the hands of just  one individual.

They argued, if the President alone could make such a decision  unilaterally, it would be the equivalent of granting the President the  power granted to a King. We all know our history. The United States had  just defeated a King in the Revolutionary War, and our Founders were in  the process of creating a constitutional Republic, not a monarchy.

Talking to my constituents in Michigan, and certainly as evidenced by  numerous polls that have come out recently, President Trump has decided  to start a war that Americans clearly do not want. The American people  instead want us focused on issues that will improve their lives here at  home.

When I hear from Michiganders, they tell me they want lower prices;  they want safer streets; they want more attention to their challenges  here at home. But if Americans are going to send their sons and  daughters into harm's way across the world, they certainly deserve to  know what the President's end goal is and what is the exit strategy.

Now, make no mistake, Iran is a brutal authoritarian regime, and I  have long said that we must ensure that Iran never ever produces a  nuclear weapon, but unless we face an imminent threat, the President  cannot--he cannot--unilaterally drag us into war.

Our country knows too well that war in the Middle East comes at a  very high cost to our servicemembers and to their families, and it is  also an incredibly expensive endeavor for our taxpayers.

In September 2021--20 years after the United States invaded  Afghanistan--Brown University released a comprehensive report that  outlined the staggering cost of the War on Terror. It found that those  military engagements added approximately $8 trillion to our national  debt. We are still grappling with the cost of all of those wars, and  now the President is starting a new one, all without properly  consulting the American people.

But let me be clear: This is not about partisan politics. This is not  about that at all. It is about fundamental constitutional obligations.  In fact, in 2013, Democrats made the Obama administration come to  Congress with a plan for its involvement in Syria. It was Senate  Democrats who forced a vote to authorize the use of military force by a  Democratic President. They did it because it was required by the  Constitution. It was not a party issue. But, unfortunately, my  Republican colleagues seem to be content to simply act as a rubberstamp  for President Trump and not require a vote as required in the U.S.  Constitution.

During my time as a lieutenant commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve, I  served in Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, places where, right  now, our servicemembers are at a heightened risk because of this  operation--and my thoughts and prayers are with these brave  servicemembers and the nearly 40,000 U.S. troops serving within range  of Iranian missiles--and a situation on the ground that is changing  rapidly.

What comes next is critical for U.S. servicemembers, the American  people, and the entire world. That is why, today, the Senate will vote  on a resolution that would assert Congress' power over the President to  declare a war, as outlined in the Constitution, and put forward by our  Founders.

It would not prevent us in any way from defending ourselves against  an attack, but it would ensure that President Trump cannot escalate  this war with Iran without congressional approval--and, more  importantly, the approval of the American people.

The American people deserve answers and our servicemembers deserve  real leadership and that is why I will be voting yes on the resolution  before us here today. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it  because it is past time for this administration to show the American  people a real plan. It is past time for Congress to start acting like a  coequal branch of government.

We need to exercise the checks and balances that our Constitution  expects from us. And that means every Member of this Chamber right  here, right now, needs to go on the record to say whether they want to  be passive, ignore their obligation to the Constitution, and allow the  President to continue this war without a clean, clear plan for the  American people or--or--do they want to require the President to be  fully transparent and accountable to the American people and,  importantly, preserve the integrity of our beloved constitutional  Republic?