Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Gross Proceeds Reporting By Brokers That Regularly Provide Services Effectuating Digital Asset Sales''--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688440/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-internal-revenue-service-relating-to-gross-proceeds-reporting-by-brokers-that-regularly-provide-services-effectuating-digital-asset-sales


Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in opposition to the  mass termination of veterans that is taking place all across our  Federal Government.

I was proud to serve more than a decade in the U.S. Navy Reserve,  where I rose to the rank of lieutenant commander. During this time, I  had the absolute privilege to work with some of the most patriotic,  hard-working, and inspiring individuals that I have ever met. I know  firsthand that veterans are a vital source of talent to our workforce.

So let's just think for a moment. Let's just think about the  qualities that make a valuable employee: leadership, work ethic,  problem-solving abilities, and of course, integrity. These are not just  abstract qualities; they are tangible assets that veterans bring to our  businesses, our communities, and to our government. They are qualities  that drive innovation. They boost productivity and foster a culture of  excellence. Employing our Nation's veterans when they transition to  civilian life is not just a responsibility; it is a smart business  decision. That is why the Federal Government has long taken advantage  of this absolutely remarkable talent pool.

Veterans now make up roughly 30 percent of our Federal workforce--or  more than 640,000 veterans in the civil service--and I rise today to  express my absolute outrage over the indiscriminate firings of nearly  6,000 of these veterans--from the VA to the Defense Department to the  Department of the Treasury.

At the VA, where veterans' input is particularly critical to shaping  policies that support our Nation's robust veteran population, Elon Musk  and DOGE have fired more than 600 veteran employees. They are part of  more than 2,400 individuals fired all across the VA.

I have heard from numerous veterans and VA workers in Michigan who  are absolutely devastated and confused by why this administration would  turn their back on them like this. My staff met with a veteran who has  worked for the VA in Michigan for nearly 30 years. Last year, they were  moved to a new role within the VA and promoted--promoted--to supervisor  shortly thereafter. And no surprise because they had never received  less than an excellent performance review over 30 years. But because  they were relatively new to that specific role, they were swept up in  the widespread firings, both within the VA and across government, of  all probationary employees. They were one of many veterans fired  abruptly, without cause, without reason.

In another case, a veteran with 8 years of Active Duty service in the  Air Force was fired from the VA in Michigan after receiving an  ``outstanding'' performance review. His probationary period was set to  expire last week, just 12 days after he was let go.

These cuts are not based on fact. They are not based on logic. They  are just cruel. And our country will not be better off. As a result of  these mass layoffs, Americans can expect longer wait times to receive  important documents like passports and Social Security benefits, fewer  food safety inspections, and higher risks during air travel.

These are Americans who put their lives on the line to defend this  country. They took up a job to continue to serve the people of this  country. They represent the very best of our Nation, and we need them  in our Federal workforce.

I am calling today on the administration to reinstate these veteran  employees immediately.