-9999


Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. President, it seems like it was just yesterday. The  year was 2010. I was in the surgeons' lounge, and what I remember on  the headline news of the day was Nancy Pelosi saying something to the  effect of this: We have got to pass the bill so we can read it.

And I knew this bill had something to do with healthcare. They were  calling it the Affordable Care Act--ObamaCare, as we now know it by-- the ``Not So Affordable Care Act.''

So the doctors and I scrambled, and we said: We better see what is in  this bill.

And we said: First of all, gosh, it looks like the insurance  companies wrote this bill. The Federal Government is going to give  direct subsidies--corporate welfare--to health insurance companies.

It was supposed to max out at $50 billion a year. Today, it is $150  billion a year.

The next thing, when we looked at that bill, we said: My goodness,  there is so much in rules and regulations, and we are going to have to  take nurses off the floor and turn them into data entry. We are going  to have to stay hours at a time, after practice, after office hours,  just to do these electronic medical records.

We said that this overregulation was going to lead to consolidation  of industry. Here we are 15 years later, and that is exactly what  happened.

We have three PBMs controlling 85 percent of prescription drugs. Most  every State has one or two healthcare insurance companies controlling  the market. There are typically one or two hospital systems controlling  healthcare in a large geographical area. The smaller companies can just  never keep up.

So what we have seen is 15 years of failed policies. But families  deserve real reform, and that is what we are trying to do. We are  trying to reform, to fix the ``Not So Affordable Care Act,'' ObamaCare.

And of all the things we saw coming, we thought it would be fraud.  But when fraud really spiked is when we added these enhanced premium  tax credits--the Biden enhanced premium tax credits. And just like the  original ACA, these enhanced premium tax credits were voted for only  with Democrat votes. And what it allowed is for patients to have health  insurance without paying anything toward the premium.

So we had headhunters who went across the country. They got a  person's name. They got their birth date. They enrolled them in  ObamaCare, and the  patient never even knew they were on it. But the Federal Government has  been sending money to these insurance companies. In fact, one out of  three people on ObamaCare, in a given year, never makes an insurance  claim.

One out of three people on ObamaCare never makes an insurance claim.  That is because most of them don't even know they are on it. And when  there is no money coming out of one of their accounts, they have no  idea that they are on it.

I think that to Americans, it is like shoplifting--shoplifting at a  grocery store. We all end up paying for that. The rest of the consumers  have to pay for the shoplifting. That is what is happening in  ObamaCare. Everybody else is paying for that increased premium.

So the first thing that we want to do is to stop the fraud in the  Affordable Care Act, and we do that in several ways. How about  something as simple as checking IDs? I can't get a hotel room tonight-- when you apply for Medicare, for Social Security, you need an ID. We  need to have job verification. We need to check IDs. We need technology  to figure out when dead people should have the stipends stop.

The recent GAO report showed that 58,000 dead people were having  premiums paid to these insurance companies for an average of about 9  months each. So think of the cost of that to the Federal Government and  to taxpayers--58,000 dead people having an insurance premium paid  monthly for 9 months before the Federal Government realizes that they  are dead.

Probably, a third of that $150 billion a year we are spending on  ObamaCare right now is in fraud, waste, and/or abuse.

The next thing we want to talk about is price transparency. Could you  imagine--let's just say that, boy, you had a great year, and you are  living that American dream, and you are going to go buy a new pickup  truck. And, you know, maybe your family usually drove Fords, and maybe  your family drove Chevys, but you want a Dodge. So you know you want  four-wheel drive. You know you want a nice V-8 engine to be able to  pull your boat and to get unstuck when you are out hunting and fishing,  but you would like to know the price. So what is the difference between  a Dodge four-wheel drive truck, eight-cylinder engine--maybe a HEMI-- versus that Chevy or Ford model which are similar? Could you imagine  making that decision without knowing the pricetags?

Could you imagine going into the McDonald's, and you are trying to  decide if you want the Big Mac or you want the Filet-O-Fish and not  knowing the difference in the prices on that? So why, in healthcare,  are we satisfied with not knowing the prices?

So one piece of our solution to solve this riddle of healthcare is to  force all healthcare providers to provide prices. So if your doctor  says that you need your knee scoped or your doctor says you need an  MRI, they can give you a code. You get on your technology, and what the  technology shows you, within 60 miles, is all the different facilities  that are covered by your insurance and what the cost would be for that  procedure and some outcomes as well.

You would be amazed. You can save thousands of dollars on an MRI by  doing a little shopping, with the same quality.

You need a joint replaced. You might save $40, $50, $60,000 for  having the hip replaced at a surgical hospital as opposed to a  traditional hospital setting. And guess what. The infection rates are  lower here at this surgical hospital.

So our bill forces, again, all healthcare providers to show you the  true costs. This turns patients back into consumers. It is the only  industry in America where we don't allow consumerism, and the ACA is  just complicating this.

So what our bill does is require, again, all healthcare companies-- healthcare providers--to show you the true costs, no excuses.

Think about the savings of this. Even I underestimated the savings of  this. This will mean $1,000 a month per family. If we adopt our  pricetags bill, it will save the average American family a thousand  dollars a month.

America spends $5 trillion a year on healthcare now--$5 trillion a  year. If we give the American consumers pricetags, it is going to save  a trillion dollars.

Just like Black Friday, when we had people out there shopping, what  is the first thing you want to know? You want to know the prices. And,  by the way, 80 percent of healthcare decisions are made by women. And I  know these women are expert shoppers. If you give them the technology,  if you give them the prices, then they can figure out what they want to  buy and where the best place to do it is.

Our third pillar is to bridge the subsidy issue for families. Look, I  don't have to tell any American the challenges with the cost of  healthcare. I never cared for the subsidies--the Biden-era subsidies.  Again, they were passed with all Democrat votes. But here we are, and  they are going to expire. The Democrats set them up to expire December  31. It was really a COVID-era extra bonus.

Remember, the other 80 percent of the premiums are still going to be  covered. The original Biden-era subsidies are not expiring, and they  typically cover about 80 percent of the premiums.

So I am willing to extend those for a year, as long as we get some of  these other things, as long as there is long-term reform. We get our  pricetag bill. We address the fraud. And then what we would do is  slowly start putting money into your healthcare savings account.

Let me say that again. The Federal Government, rather than sending  money to the insurance companies, we are going to put money in your  healthcare savings account to pay toward your deductibles.

Remember, your deductibles under ObamaCare went from $1,000 a year to  $15,000 a year. So our bill would start taking part of that money and  turning you into a consumer. You combine our pricetags bill, putting  money into your savings accounts, and then we are going to see true  consumerism, and we are going to see the cost of healthcare come down  20 percent.

Our next pillar that I would like to talk about is high-risk pool  protection. Now, what does that mean? Certainly, ObamaCare did some  good things, and one of them was to protect people with preexisting  conditions.

You may know, but I was an obstetrician. I delivered a baby every day  for 25 years. And the most common preexisting condition that wasn't  covered was pregnancy. Less than half of pregnancies are covered--are  planned. Excuse me. Less than 50 percent of pregnancies are covered,  and people buy their health insurance. They didn't think they needed  maternity coverage. But guess what. They did.

So I want to make sure everyone's preexisting conditions are covered.  I want everyone to have meaningful, affordable access to healthcare,  and I want to make sure we protect this. But one way we protect that  issue and drive the cost of healthcare down is a reinsurance pool--a  high-risk, invisible reinsurance pool--so that when any person in  America hits a certain spending amount, they would go into this high- risk pool. They would be State run. We need State money in the game as  well.

Everybody that is getting insurance through that State needs to be  contributing--probably $3, $4 a month--to that high-risk pool as well.  And if the insurance companies knew that you were going to be able to  grasp out those outliers, it is going to bring the premiums down for  everybody else.

So we talk a lot about CSRs. You could take half of the money that we  would save by funding the CSRs and put that money into the start of  high-risk pools, and all of a sudden, you have got something going  here. If you would implement our plan, I really do think you are going  to see healthcare costs go down by a third, maybe 50 percent, but at  least by a third. Between pricetags, between funding your HSAs, by  making patients consumers, by setting up these high-risk pools, we are  going to start decreasing the costs of healthcare for everybody.

So those are our five pillars. Let's stop the fraud. Let's give  patients pricetags. Let's bridge the subsidy. I am willing to include  the subsidy for a year longer if we start bridging to a better future,  where we are not throwing good money after bad money. We set up the  high-risk pools, and you end up with lower costs for patients.

We are fighting for patients. We are fighting for hard-working  Americans.  We are not fighting here for big business. We are not here fighting for  insurance companies. Small businesses are in desperate need to lower  the cost of healthcare. For every business I talk to, every union I  talk to, every self-employed person I talk to, the cost of healthcare  is a top-three issue. And these pillars will help address that.

This plan was not made overnight. This plan, as I said, started  really back in 2010 in a surgeons' lounge.

And when I was elected to come here in 2016, this is one of my three  or four issues that I wanted to address. And I have continued to revise  and refine and improve this plan from year to year to meet this moment.  In fact, it was 2018 that now-Speaker   Mike Johnson and I put together  a comprehensive replacement bill for the ACA.

And here we are today, no better off. Prices are skyrocketing, and we  continue to struggle.

I am encouraged. I think we have some momentum. I continue  discussions across the aisle. And what I hear my friends across the  aisle saying is that we share a lot of the same goals. We want  Americans to have affordable, meaningful healthcare.

And by the way, again, a $15,000 deductible for a family making  $120,000 a year--that $15,000 deductible is not the same as access to  care.

This is not a conclusive list. There needs to be more. There are more  things we can do. We need to expand healthcare association plans. We  need to allow insurance to be sold across State lines. We need to take  on the PBMs. This is just the start, but this would be a backbone. And  I don't know why any of my friends across the aisle would be opposed to  any one of these particular pillars.

Our text for our bill is out. The legislative text is out there now.  We welcome cosponsors. We welcome this as an opportunity to build  toward a bipartisan bill in January.

Americans deserve transparency. They deserve accountability. They  deserve affordability. And this plan delivers it.