Unanimous Consent Request--S. Res. 550


Mr. MARSHALL.  I think those are great goals. And having  children and grandchildren that love the great outdoors, I want to  leave this world better than I found it.

But I guess where we disagree is, How are we going to get there? As a  family, we have done projects like we planted over 20,000 trees on our  land. We have done several water projects where we preserved wetlands.  We have eliminated invasive species. We have worked with and invested  in Ducks Unlimited, which does some incredible things for the  environment.

What is interesting, as we think about what are the biggest impacts  on the environment and what the future holds, actually, the No. 1  predictor is the world economy--that if we have a strong world economy,  the carbon footprint is going to be less. So we think about: Well, why  is that? And we should answer the question: Why is that so? If there is  a strong world economy, then the infrastructure can be built for energy  production with a smaller carbon footprint.

I think of building pipelines for natural gas, for instance, as  opposed to all these countries that are still burning coal, that are  burning wood and diesel fuel, heating fuel. I can't even believe that  still, in America, we are burning heating fuel because we won't let  natural gas pipelines go across certain areas. So a strong world  economy is one of the biggest impacts on our environment's future.

And so what impacts the world economy? I think one of the things is  energy. The world needs energy that is not only affordable, but it  needs to be reliable and clean. It has to be all those things. And we  can do that. But if you have energy production that is not affordable,  that is not reliable, then people aren't going to use it, and countries  aren't going to use it.

So we need this bridge. We need this bridge, and I think the solution  long term is probably some form of nuclear energy. I think it is  probably small modular reactors, which have zero carbon footprint. They  are walkaway safe. They are not quite ready for prime time, but we are  getting closer every year. And I think, within 5 to 10 years, we will  have these small modular reactors powering communities and powering  data centers and all those great things.

I think we have to keep in mind that it is so expensive to transport  electricity. If you transport natural gas to make energy, it is a tenth  of the cost that it is to transport electricity. So, again, we have to  think about the equation as well as clean, but we also need to think  about affordable and reliable.

I think the challenge for those of us who are actually scientists is  to go back and think about all the predictions that have never, never  come true from the climate alarmists. In 2013, Peter Wadhams said we  would be ice free by 2015. In 2007, the IPCC said the Himalayan  glaciers would disappear by 2035; it was later retracted. In 2019,  everyone's climate alarmist favorite, AOC, said the world is going to  end in 12 years if we don't address the climate change. We are not  quite to 2031, but we are getting there.

It doesn't do any good to be an alarmist. We need a practical  approach to our environment--a practical, pragmatic, economical  approach--and I look forward to the day when my friends across the  aisle want to sit down with Republicans and have a real conversation  about how we get there.

And, again, I am just committed to leaving this world cleaner,  healthier, and safer. I don't believe that we can go along with my  colleague from Rhode Island's resolution here, and for that reason I  object.