Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--


What I will offer is legislation that instead of closing government  down further, begins to pay those who are working. It pays our  soldiers, pays our air traffic controllers, pays everyone who is  showing up for work. I think this should become a permanent feature of  our government.

I think it is disruptive, I think it is unfair, and I think it is  wrong that we don't pay the workers that show up. A better way than  isolating different groups and punishing different groups is actually  to pay those who are working. I think, if we do this, pass this  legislation, this would never be a problem again.

We are going to run into disagreements in the future. We are going to  have times when the government shuts down. There is no reason we  shouldn't be paying our government workers.

I ask the Senator to modify his request, so, instead, the Senate  proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 191, S. 3012;  that the bill be considered read a third time and passed, and the  motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. PAUL.  I think it is actually a universal  sentiment among both parties and among the American people,  particularly among the soldiers, that we ought to continue to pay the  soldiers and continue to pay the workers.

I am, perhaps, the most conservative Member of the Senate. I vote to  cut spending on everything--I think we spend way too much--but I am not  for cutting the salaries of people who have a contract and who are  doing their work. Now, I probably would not hire new people, and I  would probably let the Federal Government shrink gradually through  attrition because I think we need to be smaller, but if you work for  the government and you are doing your job and you have a contract, I  think you ought to be paid.

So I don't think it is clear that the President wouldn't support  this. I think it is actually quite confusing that this is being  objected to by the Democrats, and I think, actually, it would be nice  to let the Democrats, you know, have a round at this and explain to us  why they don't want to pay the air traffic controllers.

Look, we can have a dispute over spending. I think the Republican  proposal spends too much, and I think the Democrat proposal spends too  much, but I think we ought to pay the workers while we are working out  the debate over what the spending level ought to be.

I think it is actually an untenable position of Democrats to come  before  this body and say: Oh, we want to give subsidies to people who make  $225,000 a year. That is what they are arguing for. The ObamaCare  subsidies are not the basic subsidies. These are add-on subsidies that  started 2 years ago. If you make $100,000 a year, the Democrats want to  give you $13,000. Meanwhile, people who make $20,000 and are on food  stamps are not going to get food stamps, but somebody making $100,000  is going to get $13,000. That doesn't sound like the Democrats are for  the working class or for the poor. It sounds like the Democrats are for  the people making $200,000 a year to get a subsidy.

But in the midst of all this, with pressure, I think the Democrats  could be made to understand and support paying the government workers.  I mean, I just think it is something eminently reasonable, and I think  it is something very passable. I don't see the President objecting to  this. I think the President would sign this in a heartbeat.

Now, the proposal was made, and I just simply made a proposal that  would pay everybody. So the Senator from Louisiana has objected to  paying everyone, and I don't quite understand this. We could pay  everyone. We could have paid everyone had he agreed to my motion. My  motion was to pay everyone--to pay the soldiers; to pay the air traffic  controllers; to pay the staff; to pay everybody who is working. Yet  there was an objection. So I don't understand what is going on here.

Should the emphasis be to pay fewer people or more people? Why would  we try to punish certain groups of people instead of paying all of the  people who are working? Why would we not do that?

So I don't understand the process we have gone through here. We just  had a chance to pay all of the people. We had a chance to pay the air  traffic controllers; we had a chance to pay the soldiers; we had a  chance to pay all of the government workers--and then there was an  objection. So I don't understand what we are going through here.

I, for one, believe that the workers should be paid. I, for one,  believe that we should fix this permanently. The bill that I have  presented is not just to pay them one time; it is to pay all workers  all the time who are under contract and who show up for work whether  there is a shutdown or not. It is a permanent payday for those who do  their jobs. That was the fix. It is not a niche bill. It is not to  punish one group or the other group. It is to say, if you are working  and there is a disagreement on the spending levels, that all workers  are paid. I don't understand the objection, and I will continue to  support paying all the workers all the time they are at work whether  there is a shutdown or not.

Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, for decades, the globalists in Washington  have led our country into one disastrous foreign war after another.  Whether in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, and now potentially  Venezuela, the formula is always the same: Proclaim that the regime of  the targeted country poses such a threat to the American way of life  that the only thing we can do is go to war. Tell them that our  intervention is a noble effort, one that would bring security at home  and liberty to foreign lands. Topple the government and declare a new  age of freedom. The warmongers have recycled these experiments in  regime change again and again. And what has it brought? Instability,  chaos, suffering, and resentment.

It is the height of arrogance to think we can forcibly remove the  dictatorship in Venezuela and expect a different result. We should  learn from history. Liberty cannot be imposed at the point of a foreign  bad act. The United States maintains the most formidable military in  human history. Of course, we have the capability of overthrowing the  Maduro regime, just like we had the power to overthrow Saddam Hussein  and Muammar Qadhafi.

But what comes next? Is anyone thinking about the potential blowback  that such a campaign could entail? Overthrowing the Maduro regime risks  creating more regional instability, not less. The breakdown of state  authority may create a power vacuum that the very drug cartels the  administration is ostensibly trying to destroy could exploit.

Just as our misguided interventions in the Middle East led to the  proliferation of terrorist organizations, this could happen in  Venezuela, but this time with the proliferation of organized crime. We  could swell the ranks of the cartels with new recruits. Remember what  happened in Iraq, the de-Baathification of Iraq. Removing all of the  previous government soldiers, they had no place to go. They were used  to being paid, they wanted money, and they went and worked and became  terrorists.

Where do you think the tens of thousands of Venezuelan soldiers and  desperate civilians will turn when their livelihood suddenly  disappears? It may be the drug cartels. In its hubris, Washington may  very well empower the cartels and make the drug problem in our  hemisphere worse. Certainly, any war will exacerbate the already  precarious humanitarian crisis in Venezuela and lead to mass migration  into neighboring countries already struggling under the strain of  millions of refugees. And rest assured, many of those who flee the  disaster of the war that will come will make their way to the United  States.

Most consequentially, any military operation comes with the risk that  American servicemembers will be killed or wounded. We owe it to our  servicemembers to only send them into harm's way when vital American  interests are at stake. Who is in charge of Venezuela does not  constitute such an interest.

We have seen chaos emerge from our misguided wars before. We  overthrew Saddam Hussein thinking Iraq will be transformed into this  great Jeffersonian democracy. Instead, what occurred was an insurgency  that led to some of the most brutal sectarian violence in living  memory. Washington's foolish invasion empowered radical jihadists and  ultimately led to the rise of ISIS, which posed a much greater threat  to Americans than Saddam Hussein ever did.

A similar story unfolded in Libya. In 2011, our forces aided the  rebels to oust Muammar Qadhafi. The result was a brutal 6-year war that  saw the proliferation of jihadist groups and widespread human rights  violations, including the resurgence of slavery. Weapons were spread  throughout Africa. Our intervention helped spur mass migration into  Europe and contributed to widespread instability across Africa as  weapons flowed from Libya into the Sahel and Sub-Sahara, where they  continued to fuel conflicts and terrorism to this day.

Libya is still highly unstable, and the conflict constantly threatens  to reignite. Like Saddam and Qadhafi, Maduro is unmistakably a  dictator. He  is a bad guy. He suppresses freedom of speech. He controls his people.  There is no free voting. He treats people poorly, and that is an  understatement.

But there are a lot of bad guys in the world. There are a lot of  dictators. There is a lot of socialism leading to starvation. It  doesn't mean that the United States should carelessly risk its blood  and treasure to go and topple every one of them. As we have seen all  too well in recent decades, foreign military interventions often end up  making things worse. The road to hell is paved with good intentions.

Imagine the anarchy that followed our wars in the Middle East. Do we  really want to risk creating similar conditions in our own backyard?  With over 10,000 U.S. troops, 8 warships, a Virginia-class submarine,  and dozens of F-35s already in the Caribbean, the USS Gerald Ford  strike group surging toward the region, the stage for folly is set. We  are told that only drug dealers are the target of U.S. operations, but  the consolidation of the largest U.S. force in the Caribbean in 35  years suggests that regime change may very well be the intended goal.

The use of lethal force and our massive military buildup is an  invitation to retaliation. Attacked countries often attack back. It is  our soldiers in the field of battle--not the Senators on this floor-- who will bear the brunt of the retaliation. By then, the time for  debate will have passed. The Senate will have once again excused itself  from the responsibility of governing, and the United States will once  again be at war.

Those who argue that small boats in the Caribbean are so dangerous  that they warrant being blown out of the water must explain why, when  some of the individuals happen to survive, they are not detained. The  drugs are not scooped up and tested. The survivors are simply sent back  to their country of origin. Wouldn't we ask whom they work for?  Wouldn't we detain them? Wouldn't we present evidence to a court and  say what should be done with these survivors? We summarily shoot them  when we don't know who they are. But once we pick them up, we don't  summarily kill them. We don't even try them.

The United States has now repatriated two survivors to Colombia and  Ecuador. If, as we are told, these groups constitute a threat to our  security equal to al-Qaida, that they are somehow narcoterrorists, then  why are we allowing these individuals to go home? The truth is that  these arguments are nonsensical. Drug traffickers aren't equivalent to  al-Qaida, and the executive branch does not have the authority to kill  at will anyone, anywhere, at any time, for any reason.

Repatriating survivors of the strikes suggest that the  administration's lawyers are not so confident that their arguments  about article II authority will survive legal scrutiny--or perhaps they  are not confident that they could even bring drug convictions in a  court.

In addition to the strategic malpractice of pursuing regime change in  Venezuela, there is also the inconvenient fact that the President  simply does not have the authority to unilaterally launch wars. The  Founders had the foresight to recognize that the executive branch is  the branch most prone to war, and they therefore made it clear in the  Constitution that Congress maintains the exclusive power to declare  war.

Part of President Trump's broad appeal was his strong contempt for  the neocons on the right and the liberal internationalists on the left  who never met a war they didn't want someone else's children to fight.  He rightfully criticized those in Washington who supported nation- building fantasies throughout the Middle East; yet now certain  individuals within the administration seek to lead the President  astray.

I would advise President Trump to remember the wise words of his  inaugural address, when President Trump said:

[W]e will measure our success by the wars we never get       into.

President Trump, do not allow the warmongers in Washington to drag  you into an unnecessary war of choice. Washington has spent decades,  trillions of dollars, and thousands of lives trying to remake other  countries in our image. The American people are sick and tired of their  elected representatives in Congress standing idly by saying: Nothing to  see here; the President can do whatever he wants, while their sons and  daughters are sent to fight wars in distant lands.

As the administration authorizes covert CIA action in Venezuela and  surges U.S. forces to the region, including our most advanced aircraft  carrier, the risk of imminent involvement in hostilities is evident.

It is time that the first branch of government puts America first.  The majority party of this institution should stand by the principles  of restraint as espoused by President Trump's promise to the American  people. Honor and statesmanship should prevent the Senate from sitting  idly by while elements within his administration blunder America into  another foreign war. The American soldiers, their families, and the  American people deserve a debate and a vote before we send our Armed  Forces into war.

If you agree that our soldiers and their families deserve at least  this much, vote yes on this resolution.