Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, the Constitution is clear: Congress, not the  President, has the authority to declare war. The Founders were  unanimous in proclaiming that the power to declare war belonged  exclusively to Congress.

James Madison, the father of the Constitution, said that the  executive branch was the branch most prone to war; therefore, the  Constitution, ``with studied care, vested that power in the  legislature.''

Madison would further state that ``in no part of the Constitution is  more wisdom to be found than in the clause which confides the question  of war and peace to the legislature, and not to the executive  [branch].''

Hamilton, who didn't always agree with Madison or Jefferson, wrote  that ``the Legislature can alone declare war, can alone . . . transfer  the nation from a state of Peace to a state of War,'' and ``if the  Legislature have a right to make war on the one hand--it is on the  other [hand] the duty of the Executive to preserve Peace til war is  declared.''

Madison and Hamilton had very different visions of Executive power.  Yet they both agreed that it was vitally important to entrust the power  to declare war to Congress, not the executive branch.

George Washington remarked that ``the Constitution vests the power of  declaring war with Congress; therefore no offensive expedition of  importance can be undertaken until after they shall have deliberated  upon the subject, and authorized such a measure.'' No offensive  expedition without congressional approval.

St. George Tucker, a Revolutionary War-era law professor, wrote in  1803 of how our Constitution diverged from the English tradition.

He wrote:

In England the right of making war is in the King. . . .       With us, the representatives of the people, have the right to       decide this important question.

It is without question that Congress neither deliberated nor  authorized the recent offensive military action against Iran.

Each of us has taken an oath to uphold the Constitution. Deferring  the decision as to when, where, and why the country goes to war to any  President is a dereliction of duty on the part of Congress.

To commit America's military to fight wars on behalf of the Nation is  the most consequential and humbling responsibility that Congress is  entrusted with. If we are to ask our young men and women to fight and  potentially give their lives, then we in this body can at least muster  the courage to debate if American military intervention is warranted.

Washington's record of involvement in the Greater Middle East is  particularly abysmal, with dozens of campaigns costing thousands of  American lives and trillions of dollars. Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria,  Lebanon, Pakistan, Yemen, Sudan, Somalia, and now Iran--all countries  in the region that the United States has bombed or is bombing. In each  case, the hawks in Washington were adamant that U.S. military  intervention would lead to a glorious future and great peace. Instead,  after tragically losing thousands of lives and trillions of dollars,  the United States is not in a better strategic position thanks to our  interventions.

After September 11, a generation of brave Americans answered the call  to  serve, many enduring multiple deployments in the region. Some 7,000  U.S. servicemembers paid the ultimate sacrifice in the War on Terror.  Tens of thousands more carry with them the scars of war: living with  missing limbs, shrapnel, nerve damage, brain injuries, burns, scars.  Some live with paralysis and are confined to wheelchairs. The mental  wounds of war are also present as we remember the more than 30,000  veterans who have committed suicide since Washington's misguided  project to remake the Middle East.

While our soldiers carry out their missions with honor, the  Washington establishment consistently fails them. In almost all cases,  our interventions were counterproductive, making us less safe and less  prosperous.

As the initial jubilation wears off from those who clamor for war,  the regional situation remains precarious, and American servicemembers  remain in danger. Many advocates for war, giving voice to their real  feelings, have loudly opposed the current cease-fire. Those arguing  against a cease-fire give a callous testimony, insensitive to the  cruelties of war.

Some 40,000 U.S. troops are scattered throughout the Middle East as  we speak--some on large, established bases, others on isolated  outposts. It is impossible to ensure all of these locations have  adequate air and missile defense capabilities.

Our troop presence in the region is therefore a significant  liability, allowing Iran and its proxies an opportunity to target  Americans, which they otherwise would not have. Yet the Washington  foreign policy establishment seems content to allow our servicemembers  to serve as sitting ducks. Should American soldiers get wounded or, God  forbid, killed in a retaliatory strike, the calls for war emanating  from Washington will surely be deafening.

History is replete with examples of leaders who, in their hubris,  thought they could shape the fate of nations, but we are subsequently  proven wrong as events ended up controlling them. Our own country,  sadly, experienced this during Vietnam.

The needless tragedy of that war in which 58,000 Americans paid the  ultimate sacrifice led Congress to pass the War Powers Resolution we  debate today. Congress intended to ensure a President would never again  unilaterally plunge the American people into war without the people's  representatives in Congress debating the issue. We owe it to all  Americans who have worn the uniform to honor that humbling  responsibility.

Moreover, despite the tactical success of our strikes, they may end  up proving to be a strategic failure. It is unclear if this  intervention will fully curtail Iran's nuclear aspirations or, in fact,  whether the Iranians may well conclude to double down on their efforts  to obtain a nuclear weapon. At this time, it is unknown.

The lesson Tehran and other unsavory regimes around the world may  learn is that the only way to deter a strike is to maintain a nuclear  deterrent. Pandora's box has been opened, and the consequences remain  to be seen.

Congress must now focus its efforts on deescalation and preventing  the call for regime change, the consequences of which, if applied to  Iran, risk the total destabilization of the Middle East. The American  people are sick and tired of sending their children to fight and die in  war zones on the other side of the world with no tangible U.S.  interests at stake.

Abdicating our constitutional responsibility by allowing the  executive branch to unilaterally introduce U.S. troops into wars is an  affront to the Constitution and to the American people.

Today's vote offers every Member of this body an opportunity to stand  up for the Constitution, to stand up for American servicemembers, and  to stand up for America's strategic interests. I will vote in support  of this resolution, and I urge my colleagues to do so as well.