Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I want to thank the Senator from Virginia  for leading this effort. There is likely no issue more important that  confronts us as a nation, as a people, as a Congress, than whether or  not to send our young men and women to war.

I take a backseat to no one in my disdain and loathing of state- sponsored socialism. In fact, I wrote a book, ``The Case Against  Socialism,'' describing the historic link between socialism and state- sponsored violence.

I wish the people of Venezuela well and sincerely hope that they will  not repeat the mistake of electing socialists that have plagued the  nation since the 1970s.

Whether or not socialism is evil, however, is not the debate today.  The debate today is about one question and one question only: Does the  Constitution allow one man or one woman to take the Nation to war  without the approval of Congress? Full stop.

That question is bigger than regime change in Venezuela, bigger than  the claims that the ends justify the means, bigger even than the  depredations and evils that multiple socialist autocrats have  perpetrated upon the once great country of Venezuela.

Even those who celebrate the demise of the socialist, authoritarian  regime in Venezuela, as I do, should give pause to granting the power  to initiate war to one man. The power to initiate war is so vast a  power that it must be confined by checks and balances.

The debate today would not be happening if our leaders read and  understood the Federalist Papers. The constitutional power to initiate  war is placed squarely on the shoulders of Congress.

Current congressional leaders squirm and would like to shift the  burden of initiating the war to the President. Less than courageous  Members of Congress fall all over themselves to avoid taking  responsibility to avoid the momentous vote of declaring war.

But make no mistake, bombing another nation's capital and removing  their President is an act of war, plain and simple. No provision in the  Constitution provides such power to the Presidency.

No Supreme Court has allowed the Congress to abdicate its role in the  decisions of war and peace, and no Congressman of any self-respect will  argue otherwise.

Our leaders debated fully whether or not to grant this power to the  President. To a man, from Jefferson to Hamilton, the spectrum of our  Founding Fathers, they all agreed with the words that Madison wrote  that the executive is the branch most prone to war, and, therefore, the  Constitution, with studied care, vested that power--vested the power to  declare war in the legislature.

Founding-era arguments in support of ratifying the Constitution  demonstrate that our government does not entrust the decision to go to  war to just one person. At the Constitutional Convention, Charles  Pinckney argued that uniting the war powers under a single Executive  would grant to the President monarchical powers.

It would make him like a King. They did not want a King. They were  tired of the endless wars of Europe. They took that power and placed it  with the people's representatives. They didn't want to make it easy to  go to war. They wanted to make it hard to go to war.

Some will argue--they will say that Congress is so feckless. They  will never declare war.

Well, guess what, when we have been attacked, we have been virtually  unanimous. When we were attacked on 9/11, the vote was virtually  unanimous to go after the people who attacked us. When we were attacked  at Pearl Harbor, once again, the vote was virtually unanimous to go to  war.

James Wilson, one of the Founders, assured Americans at the  Pennsylvania Ratifying Convention that the proposed Constitution would  not allow one man or even one body of men to initiate hostilities.

In Federalist 69, Alexander Hamilton stated the Constitution gave the  Presidency fewer war powers than those of the British Monarch and that  the American President would be restricted to conducting the operations  of the Armies and Navy. In other words, the Constitution, the  declaration of war, that power would remain with the legislature. The  execution of the war--how many troops are stationed here; how many  battleships are stationed here--that would be the prerogative of the  President.

The beginning of the war, the initiation of the war, the declaration  of the war would reside with the people and their representatives to  make it less likely that we go to war.

The founding generation was largely united in the opinion that the  American President would not be endowed with the monarchial powers to  initiate war unilaterally. These Founders were not just engaged in a  sales pitch; they were accurately representing the Constitutional  Convention's decision on how to divide the war powers. Initiation,  declaration of war, would be the prerogative of Congress; execution,  fighting the war, would be the prerogative of the President.

An early draft of the Constitution gave Congress the power to ``make  war'' rather than to ``declare war.'' This was debated, and during the  debate over this, South Carolina's Pierce Butler rose to defend the  proposition that the new American Government should vest the war-making  powers with the President.

So this one man from South Carolina rose and said, not only should  the President execute the war, he should initiate the war also.

But others stood up. Elbridge Gerry, a delegate from Massachusetts,  was so aghast by Butler's suggestion that he rose to say that he  ``never expected to hear in a republic a motion to empower the  Executive alone to declare war.''

And in response to Butler's proposal to vest all the war powers with  the President, Gerry joined with James Madison to successfully propose  amending the draft of the Constitution to give Congress the power to  ``declare war.'' They specified that Congress would have the power to  initiate or declare war, but the execution of a war would be the  President's power.

But they wanted to make sure that the President would be able to  defend the country against foreign attack without awaiting  congressional action.

This comes up all the time about: What if we are being attacked? What  if it is an emergency? Can the President act without Congress?

Of course, he can. No one has disputed that. Military action in  defense from another military attack has always been the prerogative of  the President.

People say: Well, this had to be a secret.

Well, guess what. It was no secret that we had an entire armada lined  up outside and across the coast from Venezuela. They knew we were  there. They knew it was a possibility that we were coming in. Had we  voted to declare war, yes, they might have been chastened even more.  They might have even decided to negotiate before, had the entire  Congress said: We are declaring war.

So in some ways, a declaration of war actually is more potent if you  are trying to effect diplomacy. But, instead, we didn't vote. People  said: Oh, they wouldn't be surprised.

If we had voted to declare war, the President still doesn't have to  divulge the time or place of the war. Those secrets can still exist.

And, in fact, it is even more justified for the President not to tell  us anything about the attack until afterward, if we have already given  him permission to initiate a war.

And people say: Oh, this is just a technicality. Why should we care?

Well, if you have sons or daughters, you should care, because if we  have unlimited war, if we have no limitations on the war-making power  of one person, what happens when you get someone who will run amok with  war?

I am not even talking about this President. I am talking about ``what  if.''

That is why the rules are in place. The rules are in place to prevent  a President, at one point in time, from running amok and having  millions of our soldiers strewn around the world.

Does anybody remember the Battle of the Somme? A million soldiers  died over an 18-day period in World War I. Now, that war was  authorized, and it was still awful. But can you imagine a million  soldiers dying without a declaration?

And people say: Well, what are you talking about? They are already  gone. No one is in Venezuela.

What we are talking about is taking a country to war. We aren't just  talking about Venezuela. We are talking about the power of a President  to have a million soldiers die in an 18-day war.

People say: We are not talking about that.

Then we would declare war. You have to declare war at the beginning.

And then people say: Well, it is not a war. All it was was an arrest  warrant. It was just a drug crime.

Oh, he was guilty of possessing machineguns. That sounds like that is  being made up as humor.

In 1934, we passed a law in our country saying you can't own  machineguns. It is an American law. Does anybody in their right mind-- does any sane individual who can read in our country--believe that it  applies to the security forces of a foreign dictator or a foreign  President; that if their guards have machineguns, they are guilty of  breaching a 1934 U.S. law? What kind of world would we live in if we  could accuse people around the world and simply go arrest them and send  the military to quiet down all of their defense systems so we could  arrest them?

We had intelligence reports in our country that reported that, per  our intelligence, the leader of Saudi Arabia was guilty of or was  involved with killing an American journalist. What if a President  decided they wanted to arrest him? Can they do that without a  congressional vote or permission?

There are arguments that the current President of Brazil has unfairly  imprisoned the previous President of Brazil. Now, you can have an  argument on both sides. You can listen to the facts, but would you want  your President to be allowed to go to Brazil, free the former  President, and put the current President in jail without a vote of your  representatives? What kind of world would that be? Who could be for  that?

The Constitution empowers the President to defend the country against  sudden attacks initiated by any foreign power. The initiation of  hostilities by the United States that requires deliberation and  authorization must be voted upon in Congress.

Our Founders' intent was not a close call open to equivocation.  Pundits argue that Presidents have been ignoring this restriction for  decades. That is true. But that is not an argument. That is just an  excuse, and a lame one at that.

The Constitution is clear: Only Congress can declare war. The power  to declare war was too important to be left to the competence of one  man. As Jefferson wrote, ``in questions of power then, let no more be  heard of confidence in man, but bind him down from mischief by the  chains of the constitution.''

See, the Constitution isn't chains on the people; it is chains on  your representatives so they don't usurp the power, so your  representatives don't take you to war without careful deliberation.

Our Founding Fathers were explicit, and yet they still worried that a  branch of government might resist the chains of the Constitution. So in  pondering how they would enforce these checks and balances, they took  to heart Montesquieu's maxim that if the powers of the Executive and  the legislature, if they are combined--if there is no difference  between the legislature and the Executive, if they are combined  together--there can be no liberty. Those are strong words. They felt  liberty would be endangered or imperiled if all the power resided in  one person.

Madison wrote that by dividing the powers, by separating the powers  within the Constitution, within the branches of government, that would  pit ``ambition against ambition.'' The ambitions of a President to  usurp power would be pitted against the natural ambitions of the  legislature to keep power. The natural allure of power would be checked  by each branch jealously guarding the prerogative of power.

Who among the Framers would have ever guessed or conceived of a time  when Congress would lack any ambition--any ambition at all? Who would  have predicted a time when Congress would be so feckless as to simply  and obediently abandon all pretense of responsibility and any semblance  of duty so as to cede the war power so completely to the President?

It is as if a magical dust of soma has descended through the  ventilation systems of the congressional office buildings. Vague faces,  permanent smiles, and obedient applause indicate the degree that the  majority party has lost its grip and become eunuchs in the thrall of  Presidential domination.

A President is never truly checked by the minority party, other than  through elections. Meaningful checks and balances require the  President's party to stand up and resist unconstitutional usurpations  of power. Until that happens, the dangerous precedent of unlimited war- making power will continue to be abused by Presidents of both parties.

I recommend a ``yes'' vote on this resolution.