Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


Mr. PAUL. ``Taxation without representation is tyranny,'' bellowed  James Otis in the days and weeks and years leading up to the American  Revolution.

This became the rallying cry of American patriots: No taxation  without representation. The American Patriots thought that a distant  Parliament in England where they had no representation had no right to  tax them.

This was the rallying cry: ``No taxation without representation.''

Our Founding Fathers believed so strongly in this, they embodied it  in our Constitution. Our Constitution doesn't allow any one man or  woman to raise taxes. It must be the body of Congress.

Now, this wasn't new. This was part of maybe a thousand-year  tradition from Magna Carta on. In Magna Carta, it is stated:

No taxation without the common counsel of the realm.

Even at that time they were chafing at one man, the King, determining  the taxes for the land.

One hundred years before our Revolutionary War, in the English Civil  War, there was a debate over parliamentary supremacy versus supremacy  of the King. They did not want to pay taxes that weren't approved by  the Parliament.

In 1683, the New York Charter on Liberties, the beginning charter for  the colony of New York stated:

No taxation without representation.

And after this English Civil War, the English Bill of Rights  embodied: No taxation without the consent of Parliament. This principle  was longstanding. It was nonnegotiable. This was what sparked the  Revolution. And, yet, today we are here before the Senate because one  person in our country wishes to raise taxes.

Well, this is contrary to everything our country was founded upon.  One person is not allowed to raise taxes. The Constitution forbids it.

The Constitution was so concerned with the power of taxes--which some  have said the power of taxes is the power to destroy--but our Founding  Fathers were so concerned with this, that they said: No, the President  will not have the power to legislate. The President will not have the  power to tax. Only Congress will be able to tax the people and only by  originating tax bills in the House.

It was that specific. They were so mortified. They were so worried by  having a monarchy. They were so worried about having all the power  gravitate to the Executive, that they said: We must split the power.

They based a lot of their thinking on Montesquieu. Montesquieu wrote  in the 1740s--40, 50 years before our Constitution. Montesquieu wrote  that when the legislative and executive powers are united in one, there  can be no liberty. This is something that our Founding Fathers took to  heart. They said: We must separate the powers. We must, at all cost,  limit the power of the Presidency.

This isn't about political party. I voted for and supported President  Trump, but I don't support the rule of one person. We are set--the  President is set--to have a 25-percent tax on goods coming from Canada  and Mexico. This is a tax--plain and simple--on the American people.

But one person can't do that. Our Founding Fathers said: No, that  would be illegal for one person to raise taxes. It has to come to  Congress. It has to originate in the House. This has gone on for 200- and-some-odd years.

You can't simply declare an emergency and say: Well, the  constitutional Republic was great, but, gosh, we have got an emergency.  The times are dire.

The Supreme Court has repeatedly said: There are no exemptions for  emergency.

There was no exemption for a pandemic. There was no exemption for  emergencies. The taxation clause stands.

It is an important part of the Constitution: Taxes must originate in  the House. They must be voted on in Congress. No one man can raise  taxes on the people.

They are set to do this through a process in which an emergency has  been declared. But realize this: One person declares an emergency, the  President. And even if we are successful, which I think we will be  successful here today--a majority will vote to say: This is wrong- headed, and the emergency should end. It would have to go to the House.  But even if we were successful in the House, the President would veto  it. It would take a two-thirds vote in order to stop an emergency. That  is such a burden that we need to consider reforming the emergency  powers and reversing this.

I think a President can have times that there are emergencies and the  President can declare an emergency. But it should last 30 day, at most.  At the end of 30 days, the emergency would be brought to the people's  House--the House of Representatives and the Senate--and we would vote  to affirm or uphold the emergency.

Right now, the pretense of this emergency is fentanyl. I don't  discount fentanyl. I know families who have lost kids to fentanyl. But  there is more fentanyl going from the United States into Canada than  there is from Canada going into the United States.

There is no emergency. The Canadians have actually been cooperative  with us and said they will try to do even more. The problem isn't in  Canada.

Even if the problem is valid, even if that is something that we all  agree on,  you can't have a country ruled by emergency. You can't have a country  without a separation of powers, without checks and balances.

Madison put it this way. Madison said that we would pit ambition  against ambition; that all men--and, frankly, all women--are motivated  by self-interest and the self-accumulation or aggrandizement of power;  and so we would limit their power by pitting ambition against ambition.  We would give some of the power to the House, some to the Senate, and  some to the President. There would be checks and balances in a jostling  of power, but we would check and balance each other.

Part of the problem we face today with this emergency, though, is  that Congress has abdicated their power--not just recently, not just  for this President. This is a bipartisan problem. I am a Republican. I  am a supporter of Donald Trump. But this is a bipartisan problem.

I don't care if the President is a Republican or a Democrat. I don't  want to live under emergency rule. I don't want to live where my  representatives cannot speak for me and have a check and balance on  power.

One person can make a mistake. And guess what: Tariffs are a terrible  mistake. They don't work. They will lead to higher prices. They are a  tax, and they have historically been bad for our economy.

But even if this were something that was magic, and there was going  to be a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, I wouldn't want to live  under emergency rule. I would want to live in a constitutional republic  where there are checks and balances against the excesses of both sides,  right or left.

If one person rules, that person could make a horrible mistake.

On things so important as war, it is the same thing. We don't want a  President just to go to war because a President might get angry with  some country or have a vendetta. We are supposed to vote. That is why  there is a declaration of war. War originates also in Congress.

But we have lost so many of these things and so much of this. It is  Congress's fault for giving it. Over the last 70 years, there are  probably a dozen pieces of legislation where Congress said to the  President: Here, take this power. Create emergencies. Put on tariffs.  Negotiate for us because we are too feeble-minded to do it ourselves.

But the thing is, the Constitution doesn't let us give our power  away. There is something called the nondelegation clause, and it says  that we are not allowed to give power away. We can't just say: Here,  Mr. President, take it.

In this particular case, it is even worse. The rule of law--IEEPA is  the acronym for it--has never been used for tariffs before and doesn't  mention the word tariff.

So this isn't something that was targeted in times of need: The  President can have the power to put on tariffs. It never says that.  This will be an extraordinary use of something never intended to be a  way to have--unilateral--one single person invoke a tax on the people.

With regard to tariffs, let's be very clear. Tariffs are simply  taxes. Tariffs don't punish foreign governments. They punish American  families. When we tax imports, we raise the price of everything from  groceries to smartphones, to washing machines, to prescription drugs.  Every dollar collected in tariff revenue comes straight out of the  pockets of American consumers.

Conservatives used to understand that tariffs are taxes on the  American people. Conservatives used to be uniformly opposed to raising  taxes because we wanted the private marketplace, the private  individuals to keep more of their incomes. So we were always for lower  taxes. And yet now the mantra that is coming is: We want higher taxes.

What happened? Did we, all of a sudden, give up all of the things we  used to believe in as conservatives?

I, for one, haven't. I still think more taxes is bad for the economy.  More money taken out of the productive sector, the private sector,  given to the government is a mistake.

To those who still call themselves conservatives but now support  tariffs, let me remind them that Milton Friedman said tariffs ``raise  prices to consumers and waste our resources.''

To those who still have a fond memory of Ronald Reagan on my side,  Ronald Reagan said:

Protectionism costs consumers billions of dollars, damages       the overall economy, and destroys jobs.

Ronald Reagan's vision for America can be seen in our trading  relationships with Canada. In 1986, President Reagan said:

Our trade policy rests firmly on the foundation of free and       open markets. . . . I . . . recognize the inescapable       conclusion that all of history has taught: The freer the flow       of world trade, the stronger the tides for human progress and       peace among nations.

And it is absolutely true. If you look at a chart or a graph of world  trade over the last 70 years, it has gone like this. We have been  trading more with each other. If you look at a world map of prosperity,  it is the same curve. It is a hockey stick. It is going up  exponentially.

If you look at a curve of poverty, 100,000 people are escaping  poverty every day around the world, and it is because of international  trade. Trade is good, not bad.

Think about it. If you buy something, you are trading. If you go to  the store and you buy a smartphone, and you give them $1,000, you want  that smartphone, and you don't lose. It doesn't matter where the money  went; you got your smartphone. You only give money to somebody for  something if you want it. If it is a voluntary trade, it is always  equal. Well, it is, actually, always mutually beneficial.

And so when people say: Oh, we have lost, and China is winning, and  China is winning, and we have a trade deficit with China--America  doesn't trade with China. An individual buys a product. You are the  trader.

When you go to Walmart and you buy something at Walmart, and you say,  ``My goodness, I can get this TV for $200 less than I can get it if  there were only domestic TVs,'' you are the contractor. The U.S.  Government didn't buy the TV; you bought the TV, and you did it because  you saved $200. You are now $200 richer and can go somewhere. You can  buy gas to go on a trip somewhere.

If trade were bad, you wouldn't buy the TV. You made the decision;  the government didn't.

Our government doesn't trade with their government. Our individuals  buy products from their individuals. If it is a voluntary trade,  everyone benefits or the trade doesn't occur.

It is perhaps no surprise, then, that the United States and Canada  share the world's longest international land border and are  continuously at peace.

Canada is a great customer of ours. In fact, Canada buys more  American goods than China, Japan, England, and France combined. So do  we want the Canadians to buy less of our stuff or more of our stuff?

It is a crazy notion to put a 25-percent tariff on this enormous  amount of goods. There are predictions that cars are going to cost  $10,000 more because the cars go in and out. We have cars made in  Kentucky, but some of the parts go to Mexico. Some of the cars go to  Mexico. Some go to Canada. They come back--a $10,000 increase. Do you  love the idea of tariffs? Is it such a great word to pay $10,000 more  for a car?

Canada is also the leading provider of grain, livestock, meat, and  poultry. The United States imported $97 billion worth of oil and gas  from Canada last year. Canada is a major provider of cars, car parts,  steel, lumber, aluminum.

This amount of trading demonstrates that no American will be able to  avoid the high taxes, the high prices. They will be forced to pay  because of tariffs. The taxes on Canadian imports will come at a great  cost to American families. The taxes on Canadian imports will make the  cost of food, fuel, cars, and furniture more expensive.

The former conservatives that now sing a populist tune know deep down  that their advocacy of higher taxes will cause suffering for the  American family. The converts to this protectionist faith cannot help  but acknowledge that even they know that the tariffs will raise prices.  They admit it readily. The tariffs that they put on in 2019 are still  punishing the farmers in our country to such an extent that the farmers  are still asking for more subsidies.

When the Trump tariffs went on in 2018, 2019, the farmers immediately  complained, and they were given $20 billion of taxpayer money. That is  an acknowledgment that the tariffs hurt farmers.

So we are going to do it again, and they are all lining up. People  say we are going to have to bail them out.

Are we going to have to bail out the car companies? Are we going to  bail out everybody that is going to be hurt by these tariffs?

It is not a good idea.

The administration is currently considering a bailout for farmers.  The idea that the American taxpayer will have to bail out an industry  to dull the pain of tariffs is not a novel one. We have seen this one.  We have seen this story.

What our parents told us when we were kids is still true today:  Actions speak louder than words. The supporters of tariffs know that  their policies impose suffering, and they are willing to spend your  money to alleviate that harm. So they know tariffs are going to hurt  farm exports. So they are going to take your money and give it to the  farmers.

Well, what kind of policy acknowledges: Hey, I have got a terrible  policy. I am going to hurt these people. We will just give them some of  your money.

It makes no sense at all.

In addition to the previous costs, the Peterson Institute estimates  that tariffs will cost the average family $1,200 a year. The Budget Lab  at Yale University estimates that tariffs will cost the average family  $4,200 a year. In fact, according to the analysis, tariffs could cost  the least fortunate families on average $2,400. The middle class will  likely pay higher costs of about $3,000. Tariffs are a cost. Taxes are  a cost. If you tax a good, it is added on to the cost. This is what  happens. It happens whether inflation is the tax or whether the tax is  a tariff. It adds to the cost of goods, and it will be passed on to the  consumer.

The average American family won't get the bailouts though. If you are  a special interest and the taxes hurt you, the tariffs hurt you, you  will get a bailout. But if you are just an average person working for  yourself, self-employed, and the tariffs cause all of your groceries to  go up and cause your electronics to go up, no one is going to help you;  you will just pay higher prices. If you think the cost of eggs is high,  just wait until the tariff hits.

Tariffs will raise the price of a car between $5,000 and $15,000.  Despite arguments to the contrary, Americans know that tariffs are a  tax they will have to pay. That is why vehicle sales jumped almost 13  percent last month--because people are trying to buy their cars before  the tariff gets on their car and raises the price. People are smarter  than politicians. That is nothing new.

It is not just cars that will be more expensive as a result of  tariffs; energy will be more expensive. Gas prices in some parts of the  country could see a 15- to 30-cent per-gallon increase in price.

According to the National Association of Home Builders, the building  of a single-family home could become up to $10,000 more expensive. Why?  Because we import lumber. We import steel. If we make it more expensive  to import lumber from Canada and steel from Canada, the price of your  house goes up.

Look, people already can't buy a house because interest rates are so  high. Young people are living in apartments. More and more, people feel  stuck in their life, and we are going to add to the price of lumber and  steel to make homes even harder to purchase? It is a terrible idea.

Washing machines were already almost $100 more expensive as a result  of the original tariffs 4 years ago.

Here is really bad news: Even beer will become more expensive. A  professor at Northeastern University states that a six-pack of Corona  could go up by 45 cents, but a small craft beer could be increased by  as much as $1 a pint.

The former and never-were conservatives who try to sell tariffs as  anything other than a tax cannot fool the American people, who know  that their purchasing power will be weakened with every new  protectionist measure unilaterally imposed by the White House.

None of these tax hikes are necessary. The populists argue that the  threat of tariffs is needed to force Canada to stop the flow of illicit  drugs. In fact, one of the social media posts today said there was  going to be a tariff on fentanyl. Really? You think the drug dealers  are going to pay a tariff on fentanyl? Fentanyl is not being tariffed.  That is some kind of mistaken notion. This isn't going to happen. As I  have stated, there is more fentanyl going from the United States into  Canada than there is coming from Canada to the United States.

It is not a real emergency. It is being used to place a tax on the  American people.

But already we have seen a response from Canada. In response to the  threat of tariffs, Canada announced a $1.3 billion plan dedicated to  border security, to up border security on fentanyl. Yet the tariffs are  still coming despite their help. They have also announced more tariffs  as well.

The threat of tariffs seems to have worked. We need not make Canada  and America go through this when they have already responded to our  request.

The chaos of one day the tariffs are on, one day they are off, the  next day there is a loophole for this industry or that industry, is  chaotic and is leading to turmoil in our markets.

A week ago, when the thought of tariffs came forward, the markets  plunged to historically low levels.

The tariffs on Canadian imports, the tariffs on Mexican imports, the  tariffs on European imports--the chaos it creates in the marketplace  makes it difficult to plan for businesses.

The interesting thing also about the tariffs is--some have said:  Well, you know, the people will see that we are standing up for them  with tariffs and we are for America first. Yet, when we put tariffs on  historically, it has been Republicans.

In 1890, McKinley put tariffs on. He was all for it. So there were  people lauding McKinley. In 1890, the big McKinley tariff goes on. Do  you know what happened in 1892? Out of 170 Republicans, they lost 100  seats because prices went up with tariffs.

Has this ever happened before? Yes. It happened in the 1840s when  they put on the ``Tariff of Abominations'' under John Quincy Adams. He  signed it. Once again, the ruling party lost seats.

When is the last time this happened in dramatic fashion? Well, if you  study history and you want to know when the Republicans went to their  lowest ebb in the entire history of our country, it came after the  Smoot-Hawley tariffs in the early 1930s. Hoover was President, a  Republican. Republicans controlled Congress. They passed this dramatic  tariff, which most historians and most economists now say prolonged the  Depression for 10 years and caused the worst part of the Depression to  actually be in 1937--7 years after the tariff and nearly 8 years after  the stock market crash.

Do you know what happened to the Republicans in 1932? The Democrats  won the Presidency, and they won the House. Do you know when  Republicans got back in charge after 1932? It was 1994 in the House and  in the eighties in the Senate. They went 50, 60 years into the desert  because tariffs were such a turmoil to the country that the country  rejected Republicans for nearly half a century.

The emergency declaration we are considering today is unprecedented.  By declaring an emergency, the President invoked the International  Emergency Economic Powers Act. They call it IEEPA, but it is an  acronym. Don't get me started about government acronyms. It is a law  that has been used to put sanctions on, like, Iran. That is what it was  intended for. But it was never intended for tariffs and ``tariffs''  doesn't appear in the law.

Using this bill to impose tariffs is attractive to a President. He  doesn't have to work with the messiness of democracy, the messiness of  Congress. But do you know what? That messiness is a check and a balance  on power. Unlike most of our trade laws that require several procedural  hurdles, IEEPA just says ``Declare an emergency,'' and it becomes very  hard for Congress to overturn this.

When the Trump administration first implemented tariffs on China, it  took 11 months before the tariffs could take effect. By using IEEPA,  the technique now, the tariffs have an almost immediate effect.

We are not at war with Canada. I don't even think we have real  disagreements with Canada. They are an ally that buys more of our stuff  than almost any other country in the world.

Expediency is not the same as legality, though. As legal scholars  have pointed out, there is reason to believe that this bill--this  IEEPA, this emergency bill--does not authorize the President to impose  tariffs for at least two reasons.

First, despite broad powers conferred to the President by this act,  the plain, simple text does not mention the ability to impose a tax,  tariff, or duty. It runs counter to Congress's habit of clearly  referencing tariff authorities in other trade statutes. This may  explain why no previous President has attempted to use emergency powers  to impose tariffs.

Second, it is difficult to see how using this emergency power, this  IEEPA Act and a national emergency, to impose tariffs would comport  with something called the major questions doctrine. Under this  doctrine, the Supreme Court will reject claims of Executive authority  on issues of vast economic and political significance. It is hard to  imagine that a 25-percent tax on everything from Canada would not be  considered to be of vast economic significance.

Congress has not clearly empowered this administration. I think it is  hard to even argue that it is ambiguous. The power was never granted.  This question is ripe, and this power is ripe to be rejected by the  Supreme Court.

Hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of imports from Canada are at  issue here. Clearly, this is a major economic question. Yet Congress  has not expressly delegated the authority to impose tariffs to the  President.

We need to return to constitutional government. We used to abide by  the ancient principle of ``no taxation without representation.''

One of the first acts enacted into the law was the Tariff Act of  1789, which sought to generate revenue by placing a 5-percent tax on  all imported goods and was signed into law, after passage by Congress,  by George Washington.

Alexander Hamilton's ``Report on Manufacturers'' is well known.  According to Professor Douglas Irwin of Dartmouth College, every tariff  recommendation put forth in the report was adopted by Congress in 1792.  But simply voting on tariffs does not convert them into a good idea. It  could make them constitutional. It could make this legal if Congress  voted on it. It would still be economically a bad idea.

As we move forward in this debate, you will see that there are people  on both sides of the aisle who question really whether we should be  ruled by one person or whether the power should be separated. To me,  this is not a partisan question. Some will try to make it a partisan  question. To me, it makes no difference whether the President is  Republican or Democrat. This is about the distribution of power. This  is about the separation of power. This is about the admonition that  Montesquieu gave us that when the Executive power and the legislative  power are united in one person, there can be no liberty.

Our Founding Fathers all believed that. They so feared the power of  taxation that they gave it only to Congress. They so feared the power  of taxation that they gave it specifically to originate in the House  before it came to the Senate because the House was closer to the  people, with elections every 2 years.

This goes against the traditions of our country. I stand to speak  against these tariffs. I stand to speak against these emergencies. I  stand against the idea of skipping democracy, of skipping the  constitutional republic, of rejecting our founding principles, not  because I have any animus toward the President; I do this because I  love my country, and I want to see the division of power enabled such  that it protects us all from the amalgamation of power into one person  such that it can be abused.

Another name for ``emergency rule'' is ``martial law.'' Who would  want to live under one person? That is the thing we all object to. In  all the countries around the world that we object to is the idea that  they don't have democratic rule.

We should vote. This is a tax, plain and simple. Taxes should not be  enacted by one person.

So I will vote today to end the emergency. I will vote today to try  to reclaim the power of taxation, the power of the tariff to where the  Constitution designated it should properly be, and that is in Congress.