District of Columbia Policing Protection Act


Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of the  Oversight and Government Reform Committee for recognizing me and  allowing me to speak in support of H.R. 5143, the District of Columbia  Policing Protection Act.

As a matter of background, Mr. Speaker, in January 2023, the D.C.  Council enacted the Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Amendment  Act of 2022, the CPJRA Act, D.C. Law 24-345, among numerous other  police-related policy matters, most of which we advised against in the  Oversight and Government Reform Committee. We met with D.C. officials,  including in hearings, and we advised against what they intended to do.

Mr. Speaker, included in those police-related policy matters in the  act that they, indeed, passed in 2022 was subtitle S of the CPJRA,  which imposed a host of restrictions on police pursuit of criminal  suspects.

In doing so, the D.C. Council essentially made it illegal for police  to pursue and apprehend criminals if they were fleeing in a vehicle by  imposing a complex matrix of 14 factors that police officers have to  consider for whether or not they would pursue a fleeing vehicle.

I speak from my own experience as a police officer. I have been, very  likely, the only one involved in this debate for several years who has  actually engaged in high-speed chases. I tried to add it up the other  day, but I probably have engaged in a couple of hundred serious high- speed pursuits in the course of my career. I worked night shift for a  long time, 9 years straight, 12-hour shifts. Night shift is when this  stuff usually happens.

I am not talking about when someone doesn't stop right away. That is  not a high-speed pursuit. Having to drive 100 miles an hour to catch up  with somebody that you are pulling over is not a high-speed pursuit.

A high-speed pursuit is when they are running. This is something  where the officer has to make very fast decisions, Mr. Speaker. Yes, we  consider the totality of circumstances of where we are: Is that a  suspect vehicle? Does it match a definition of something that has been  put out through dispatch of a vehicle that we are looking for? Has it  potentially been involved in a crime that requires police interaction  in an effort to enforce and address that crime that took place?

There are a number of factors that a police officer has to figure,  but it has to be an option that you can pursue that car.

What D.C. has done, one of the factors, Mr. Speaker, is if anyone in  the suspect motor vehicle was afforded an opportunity to comply with an  order to surrender any suspected dangerous weapons.

What the hell? There is no way a police officer can know that. There  are too many factors, which basically means D.C. has made it illegal  for police to pursue a vehicle.

That is what we are correcting here. We are restoring the discretion  of the professional law enforcement officer to make a decision in a  fraction of a second or two based upon his policies and training and  the totality of circumstances of whether or not he needs to pursue that  vehicle.

This is what my bill restores. The legislation repeals subtitle S of  the Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act of 2022 and  replaces it with policies empowering police to make vehicular pursuit  of a suspect fleeing in a motor vehicle if the officer or supervisor  deems it necessary, that it is the most effective means of  apprehension, and if it is without unreasonable risk to bystanders.

Let me say, in all of my vehicle pursuits, there have been a few  crashes, but nobody has died. The only crash that I have ever been  involved in during those pursuits was when I purposefully crashed the  fleeing vehicle, which was the guy who had committed an armed robbery  at a local hardware store, had pistol-whipped the manager of that  store, made it to his car, and fired at officers.

Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the time yielded  and the indulgence of the chairman. I urge strong support of H.R. 5143.  It restores legitimate discretion to the police officers who actually  work the streets of D.C.

Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, let me just diplomatically  address a couple of the accusations here regarding the nature of my  bill.

The gentlewoman acknowledged that there is danger involved, yes. Yes,  enforcing the law is dangerous. This is why the professional law  enforcement officers across the country, including here in D.C., are  incredibly well vetted and trained and equipped to make decisions in a  matter of seconds or less to pursue criminals and to enforce the law.

It is dangerous work. It is dangerous for the officer. It can result  in injury or death for the criminal. It can result in injury or death  for innocent Americans, but let us never forget that the interaction  was initiated by the criminal. Mr. Speaker, enforcing the law is  dangerous work.

What is more dangerous, Mr. Speaker, is failure to enforce the law.  What is more dangerous for every community, including our Nation's  Capital, for which this body has a responsibility to stand, is failure  to give discretion for enforcement of law to the very law enforcement  professionals that you have trained and equipped and placed on the  streets. To not allow those professionals to make decisions and enforce  a law, that is incredibly dangerous.

My bill stands on the side of the citizenry of D.C. in an effort to  enforce the law by fully empowering the police officers of D.C. to  engage criminal conduct and enforce the law.