Notice of Intention to Offer Resolution Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from  South Carolina (Mr. Norman) for yielding, and I thank my colleague Mr.  Raskin for the salient points that he has brought to this debate.

Mr. Speaker, I also defended George Santos on this floor and opposed  the means by which he was expelled. I think it was beyond the pale. A  responsibility that we bear in this body is to determine the means by  which our colleagues shall be reprimanded or disciplined.

The Constitution is clear on this. My friend Mr. Raskin knows full  well that this body controls the means by which and the rules by which  the Members of Congress shall be disciplined.

We have had variances of opinions regarding the exact disciplinary  actions that should be embraced or rejected Member by Member. Let me  say that, in this case, Ms. Plaskett's receiving text messages--this  was so alarming to me. When I saw this and read it, I didn't believe  it. I say to my friend, I thought perhaps it was media from a satirical  site. It couldn't possibly be true because we all know that a text  message, a text exchange, is rather intimate in the realm of  communications. To pierce into an actual congressional hearing, for a  Member of Congress to receive and respond to a text message during a  hearing, that is quite familiar, is it not?

This was shocking to me that a Member of Congress would be exchanging  text messages directly with Jeffrey Epstein in 2019, at which time he  was being prosecuted, federally, by the first Trump administration. He  had received some nature of a sweetheart deal back in 2007 and avoided  Federal prosecution by pleading no contest to some level of State  prosecution where he was sentenced, Mr. Speaker, to 13 months. My  understanding is, he did 11 months and at the easiest time that could  be done. He walked every day during the day on the work-release  program.

That sweetheart deal, let me say, should be looked at. Now, to my  horror, who has come to light that should be looked at, what was their  involvement? Was there some involvement then? She is a good lady from  the Virgin Islands. Where did Jeffrey Epstein live? In the Virgin  Islands. He was a constituent in 2019. Was she a friend in 2007 during  her service to the DOJ, which my friend has brought up? Was there any  interactions?

These are the questions we have. The good lady from the Virgin  Islands has crossed the threshold of reasonable suspicion and,  therefore, she should be investigated by Ethics, by DOJ, and I would  recommend by the Oversight and Judiciary Committees. Meanwhile,  she should absolutely be removed from the House Permanent Select  Committee on Intelligence. This, Mr. Speaker, is my position. I present  it without note for the betterment of the debate of this body.