Notice of Intention to Offer Resolution Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694802/notice-of-intention-to-offer-resolution-raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to clause 2(a)1 of  rule IX, I rise to give notice of my intention to present a question of  privilege to the House. The form and resolution is as follows:

H. Res. 539.

Whereas, on May 9, 2025, Representative McIver took part in an  incident at the Delaney Hall Federal Immigration Facility located in  Newark, New Jersey;

Whereas Representative LaMonica McIver of New Jersey, as a result of  her actions on May 9, 2025, has been charged in a three-count  indictment by a Federal grand jury for assaulting, resisting, impeding,  and interfering with Federal officers;

Whereas Representative McIver is alleged to have challenged guidance  from a Federal officer regarding access to the secure immigration  detention facility;

Whereas Representative McIver is alleged to have interfered with  Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) officials from making an arrest  of an unauthorized visitor;

Whereas Representative McIver is alleged to have ``slammed her  forearm into the body'' and ``restrain'' an HSI officer by ``forcibly  grabbing him'';

Whereas Representative McIver is alleged to have further interfered  with an Immigration and Customs Enforcement Deportation Officer engaged  in the performance of his official duties;

Whereas body camera and other video evidence support the allegations  made within the Federal indictment;

Whereas such actions constitute a violation of section 111(a)(1) of  title 18, United States Code, relating to assaulting, resisting,  impeding, and interfering with a Federal officer;

Whereas clause 1 of rule XXIII of the Rules of the House of  Representatives provides, ``A Member, Delegate, Resident Commissioner,  officer, or employee of the House shall behave at all times in a manner  that shall reflect creditably on the House.'';

Whereas such actions of a Member of the House of Representatives do  not reflect creditably on the House; and

Whereas Representative McIver's continued service on the Committee on  Homeland Security, which is charged with oversight of Federal  immigration enforcement and other national security matters, would  represent a significant conflict of interest: Now, therefore, be it     Resolved,

Section 1. Censure of Representative LaMonica McIver:

Representative LaMonica McIver--

(1) is censured;

(2) shall forthwith present herself in the well of the House of  Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; and

(3) is censured with the public reading of this resolution by the  Speaker.

Sec. 2. Removal from Committee on Homeland Security:

The following named Member be, and is hereby, removed from the  following standing committee of the House of Representatives:

Committee on Homeland Security: Mrs. McIver.