Special Interest Alien Reporting Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693077/special-interest-alien-reporting-act-of-2025


Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, what is it that the Democrats  don't want the American people to know? It is a legitimate  consideration that the citizenry from sea to shining sea should ask  themselves right now. What exactly is the problem?

They say again and again, oh, DHS could do this if they wanted to.  They already report to us. We are saying exactly that: The special  interest alien data should be reported to Congress along with the rest  of the data.

Why would the Democrats take a big stand? This is the former chairman  of Homeland Security and current ranking member, who has been on the  committee for a long time. This is a rare appearance on the House floor  to push back against about this.

Americans should think about this. Democrats are pushing back on this  because they don't want the citizens of America to know what special  interest aliens, who participated in suspicious travel patterns, came  into our country illegally in 2021, '22, '23, and '24. Because you know  how many are coming in in 2025? Zero are coming in. That is how many.  That is because we have an executive branch that has been enforcing  American law since January 20 of 2025.

We, the people, demand to know what is the data of so-called special  interest aliens. These are suspicious-travel-pattern, illegal  immigrants coming into our country. We want to know: Where did they  come from? How did they get here? Where were they before? We want to  know all the data that we allegedly collected. Congress has a right to  know.

Why would DHS need Congress to codify their authority to give us this  data? It is because of activist radical judges that stop the executive  branch. Every day Americans have to read about that garbage, a radical  judge stopping the elected President from performing his role as  Commander in Chief and President of the United States.

The executive branch needs Members of Congress to perform like my  friend and colleague, Ms. Marjorie Taylor Greene, has done by  presenting this law. I am a proud original cosponsor. The President  needs this legislation to mitigate against the radical judges that will  try to stop him from releasing through Congress to the American people  the data from 2021, '22, '23, and '24 of what suspected illegal aliens  came into our country that fit this category.

Now, across the country and in this body, most Americans know I am  very plugged into law enforcement. I get calls every day from these  guys, boots on the ground across the country, including deep in Federal  law enforcement, and they support this law. Don't tell me that Federal  law enforcement doesn't want to do this or it is bad for the country in  some way. That is smoke. That is smoke that is being put out by  Democrats to protect themselves from the impact of the reveal of the  truth of just what kind of people that fit this category were allowed  into our country. They were waved in for 4 years. It was stopped almost  immediately in January of this year.

I am clearly in full support of the bill. I am proud to be an  original cosponsor of the bill. We are going to bring this bill to the  floor, and they are going to call for a recorded vote. I am glad they  will. I hope you do call for a recorded vote because I want you on the  record pushing a red button.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I urge my colleagues to support  it also.