Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Ramirez for her  leadership.

Mr. Speaker, the Trump regime's mass deportation agenda is not about  public safety. It is part of a much bigger story of corruption,  cruelty, and abuse of power that defines Trump's America.

Earlier this year, Congress authorized a massive slush fund under  Trump's so-called big, beautiful bill, pouring more than $170 billion  of taxpayer money into enforcement and detention center expansion  without any sort of meaningful oversight.

At the heart of this system sits a vast network of privatized  detention facilities run by private prison corporations, like CoreCivic  and GEO Group, whose bottom lines depend on filling these beds. These  companies are awarded government contracts worth billions of dollars,  yet their facilities are notorious for cutting corners on healthcare,  food, and safety in order to maximize shareholder profits.

I have seen this firsthand at the Eloy Detention Center in Arizona  run by CoreCivic. I have talked to dozens of women who have been  detained there. They shared with me their testimonies about lack of  clean drinking water, lack of air conditioning during Arizona's extreme  heat, racist inhumane treatment, and of course my constituent Yari, who  was a green card holder who has leukemia, has been detained there and  refused access to an oncologist for 6 months until direct outreach from  our office and the community's input as well.

This is all, again, all about shareholder profit. CoreCivic, for  example, had a revenue of $530 million during the second quarter of  this year alone, an almost 10 percent increase from 2024.

Meanwhile, GEO Group's chairman said: Republicans' new slush fund for  ICE would provide ``unprecedented growth opportunities.''

CoreCivic's CEO Damon Hininger stated in shareholder calls that this  is a ``pivotal moment,'' and that ``business is perfectly aligned with  demands of this moment.'' That is disgusting.

Donald Trump's cruelty against immigrants has transformed human  misery into both a political spectacle and a business model. The more  people that are detained, the more money private corporations make, and  the more campaign contributions and political power flow directly back  to Donald Trump and those who fund this system.

This is Trump's corruption machine turning our immigration system  into a pay-to-play racket for his donors. Meanwhile, families across  the country are paying the price, and parents are torn from their  children, leaving households and communities economically devastated.  Taxpayers in this country are footing the bill for a system not  designed to keep us safe, but to funnel money into the pockets of a  powerful few.

It does not have to be this way. We can invest in alternatives to  detention centers that are proven to be more humane and effective. We  can end blank checks for ICE and stop the privatization of immigration  detention centers once and for all, and we can finally reject the lie  that Trumpian cruelty is security because in America, our safety should  never come second to a billion dollar corporation's profit.