Migrants Fleeing Religious Persecution


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my outrage and strong  opposition to the inhumane treatment of migrants fleeing religious  persecution.

Earlier this month, the Trump administration deported roughly 300  men, women, and children seeking refuge in the United States to Panama  on U.S. military aircraft, locking them in hotel rooms without access  to basic rights or counsel.

This includes asylum seekers from Iran, China, and other countries  known to persecute religious minorities. They have since been deported  to detention camps in a remote jungle and are being forced to live in  degrading and dangerous conditions with little to no access to the  outside world.

Among them is Artemis Ghasemzadeh, an Iranian woman who fled Iran  after converting to Christianity, a crime punishable by death under the  brutal Islamic regime.

Artemis converted to Christianity in secret through a network of  underground churches and online classes in Iran. Last December, she set  out for the United States in search of a new life. In a haunting image,  she was photographed from inside her detention room in Panama with the  words ``help us'' written on the window in her red lipstick.

Artemis is 1 of 10 Iranian Christians, including 3 children, who are  detained in Panama. These people sought safety and refuge in the United  States. Instead, they were rounded up, flown thousands of miles away,  and imprisoned in detention camps in brutal conditions. They are afraid  for their lives as they wait to be sent back to their home countries to  face deadly consequences for their human right of religious freedom,  what this country was founded on.

The United States should never be responsible for sending people to  face persecution, especially those who have risked everything to seek  refuge right here. These actions not only violate our moral  responsibilities and our shared humanity, but they are in direct  conflict with the values upon which our Nation was founded.

I am the proud daughter of immigrants from Iran. My parents came to  the United States fleeing the brutal revolution that led to the current  regime. This country welcomed them with open arms, allowed them to work  hard and succeed, and in just one generation, they have witnessed their  daughter make history as the first Iranian-American Democrat ever  elected to Congress.

Asylum seekers come to this country to escape violence and  persecution. Turning these people away is cruel, fundamentally un- American, and does nothing to fix our broken immigration system. That  is why I plan to introduce legislation that would halt expedited  removal for individuals fleeing countries noted for persecuting  religious minorities. We can have secure borders and also have an  immigration system based in empathy and humanity.

Mr. Speaker, I urge this administration to uphold our Nation's legacy  as a beacon of hope and a defender of religious freedom, not a  facilitator of suffering.