Reckless Incompetence of Signal Chat Put Servicemembers At Risk


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, I rise with deep shock, concern, and outrage  at the carelessness of the Trump administration in disclosing highly  sensitive operational military plans on a commercial chat platform that  included a reporter.

Without a doubt, this reckless incompetence put our servicewomen and  -men in danger.

Last week, I received a call from a constituent whose son is deployed  abroad in the region. His son's mission was personally put at risk by  the very same people charged with safeguarding our Armed Forces who put  their lives on the line for us.

This Arizona father and his son sacrifice for our country, and we  should all be ashamed that this is how their service is repaid.

The Trump administration officials who set up and participated in  this Signal chat debacle should have taken responsibility for their  egregious mistake and instantly offered their resignation for having  violated the law, contravened common sense, and put American troops in  harm's way.

Let me put it this way: Not only did the National Security Advisor  set up an illegal, unsecured chat with the Secretary of Defense, the  CIA Director, the Vice President, and others to discuss highly, highly  sensitive and imminent attack plans, but they also bungled their way  into adding a random person into the chat.

We should not be surprised in the slightest that the Trump  administration treats our Nation's secrets this way. This is the same  man, after all, who had our nuclear codes sitting in his bathroom in  Mar-a-Lago. The way that the administration has handled this entire  calamity has been equally as dangerous.

Secretary of Defense Hegseth straight-up lied. He said there was no  classified information on the chat, that he didn't share attack plans,  and that no troops were put in harm's way.

Then, there is our Director of National Intelligence, who is  supposedly our Nation's most trusted, meticulous secretkeeper, who went  before the Senate to mislead, evade, and perjure herself. What a truly  disgraceful episode.

This is not a partisan issue. In fact, both the chair and ranking  member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, in a bipartisan manner,  requested that the Pentagon investigate the use of the Signal app to  share classified information.

We can all agree that no government employee, let alone a Cabinet  member, should be sharing classified information in a Signal chat and  be careless enough to add a reporter to it, as well. There should be a  serious after action review to prevent this from ever happening again  and one that considers the criminality involved.

Yet another Trump lackey, our Attorney General, who is officially  supposed to be the people's lawyer, is ruling out a criminal  investigation into this scheme altogether.

Mr. Speaker, these are the same people that spent the better part of  a decade looking into Hillary's emails. They evidently do not care to  even pretend to investigate how our Nation's most secret information is  being shared.

The ramifications of this unmitigated disaster will be felt for  years, even decades, to come. Why would any of our allies share  sensitive information with us if the Secretary of Defense is just going  to pop it into a group chat and share it with the editor in chief of a  national publication?

In conjunction with all of the other actions the Trump administration  has taken to dismiss or turn our backs on our allies, I am deeply  concerned about how Signal-gate will make us much, much less safe in  the long term. Our Nation deserves better. Our servicewomen and  servicemen deserve better. We deserve better.