Trump Immigration Policies


Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, last week, I traveled to El Salvador, along  with three of my colleagues, to see firsthand the chaos unleashed by  the Trump administration through its unconstitutional and illegal  deportations of U.S. residents to third-party countries.

I represent a beautifully diverse district in which 64 languages are  spoken and where families of immigrants like mine thrive. I have heard  more about this issue from my constituents than any other during my  time in Congress.

In El Salvador, we met with the U.S. Ambassador and demanded that the  Trump administration facilitate the release of Kilmar Abrego Garcia in  compliance with the 9-0, unanimous Supreme Court decision of the United  States and the lower Federal court judges.

Mr. Abrego Garcia and many other wrongfully deported individuals were  sent to El Salvador with no due process and no legal recourse just for  being in the wrong place at the wrong time.

It is outrageous and indefensible that the Trump administration  continues to defy a Supreme Court ruling to return this man to his  family. In fact, it is a full-blown constitutional crisis.

There are other people--including Andry Jose Hernandez Romero, a  makeup artist and legal asylum seeker, and Merwil Gutierrez, a teenager  who was mistakenly picked up by immigration enforcement--languishing in  El Salvador.

Now, the Trump administration is admitting to deporting a 2-year-old  U.S. citizen with cancer. It is cruel, it is despicable, and it is  totally illegal, no matter what Stephen Miller or Tom Homan may say.

These cases are not just about these specific people or children sent  on planes to foreign prisons by the U.S. Government. Our entire system  of justice hinges on the rights afforded to us by the Constitution, the  rights of due process, access to legal representation, and the ability  to be heard in a court of law.

It is a dark day for our democracy when the Federal Government  snatches people off of the streets, flies them out of the country  secretly in the dead of night, and sends them to a foreign prison to be  detained indefinitely with no legal recourse or chance to prove their  case.

Who is to say that it couldn't be you or me next? I will continue to  speak out for due process and our constitutional rights.