Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693841/guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act


Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the passage of the  GENIUS Act, and I thank Chairman Hill for his extraordinary leadership,  not just in this Congress, but for a long time advocating for this  moment. He deserves a tremendous amount of credit for persevering and  working and marshaling bipartisan, bicameral support. I thank him for  his tremendous leadership.

I thank the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Steil) for being a subject- matter expert and working in a bipartisan way to build a bipartisan  coalition for this moment.

There has been a lot of talk, Mr. Speaker, made in this term of  Congress about the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. It is a historic piece  of legislation, no doubt. It is going to supercharge our economy. It is  jet fuel for our economy. They are the biggest tax cuts we have ever  seen in this country's history. Yet, I would argue, with all respect,  that, arguably, the most important and most transformational pieces of  legislation in this Congress are these bills that we are talking about  here today, the GENIUS Act and the CLARITY Act.

It is paramount that we send this historic piece of legislation, the  GENIUS Act, to the President's desk because this bill is the first of  its kind in creating a regulatory framework for the future of  stablecoin issuance in the United States to revolutionize finance and  payments in this country and around the globe.

Not only will this cement us, the United States, for decades to come  as leaders and innovators in the digital asset space, but it will,  importantly, protect the U.S. dollar's dominance and increase demand in  our Treasury market.

In the GENIUS Act, stablecoins become pegged to the U.S. dollar and  backed by high-quality liquid assets.

Mr. Speaker, in stark contrast to what my friend, the gentleman from  Illinois (Mr. Casten), was arguing, this actually prevents these other  so-called stablecoins from actually thriving in the marketplace.

You are going to have stablecoins that actually are stable. That is  why we need the bill. The gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Casten) is  actually making the argument for us. He is making the argument for why  he should support the GENIUS Act. It is because of unstable stablecoins  that are out there. Those products will lose ground in the marketplace  after we pass the GENIUS Act.

It will ensure that consumers are protected while reaping the  benefits of blockchain technology. The GENIUS Act will allow for  scalability to occur in the stablecoin marketplace, ensuring American  consumers and businesses have access to this innovative product.

Both banks and nonbanks can issue stablecoins under the GENIUS Act,  bringing together the best actors in both the traditional finance space  and the new era of digital finance.

The GENIUS Act provides that all appropriately regulated banks,  including the U.S. operations of foreign banking organizations, which  are supervised by the Federal Reserve, are treated equally to their  U.S. peers.

This is particularly important with respect to the issuance, reserve  and custody services, and bank capital requirements irrespective of  whether they are deposit insured since the act prohibits stablecoins  from being covered by FDI insurance.

A robust, well-regulated stablecoin market eliminates any  justification for a government controlled Central Bank Digital  Currency, or CBDC, which jeopardizes Americans' access to freedom,  privacy, and apolitical private capital.

This is an important point for all of my colleagues on my side of the  aisle who share my concern and opposition to a CBDC. If you want to put  a dagger in the heart of this crazy surveillance state idea of a  Central Bank Digital Currency, pass this bill. I urge all Members to  vote for this bill, vote for the GENIUS Act, which will eliminate all  arguments for a CBDC.

With the GENIUS Act, we will increase the speed and decrease the cost  of payments. We will decrease and eliminate friction from our payment  system. If all Americans see housing their deposits via a CBDC at the  Federal Reserve as a risk-free proposition, they would be incentivized  to pull their money out of private-sector banks.

Mr. BARR. Just to conclude, we want to avoid eroding the deposit base  and starving the private sector of conventional bank financing. The  GENIUS Act will not erode the deposit base. It will allow banks to  issue and custody stablecoins and participate in this emerging crypto  economy cementing the dollar as the world's reserve currency,  protecting consumers and the deposit base, and supercharging the  Treasury market.