Highlighting Republican Successes in 2025


Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend from Utah for  organizing this Special Order.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to celebrate a year of success, of restoring the  American Dream, and of making America great again.

One year ago, Mr. Speaker, President Donald Trump returned to office  with a clear mandate from the American people: secure the border,  rebuild the economy, tame inflation, restore American strength, and put  American workers first again.

In just 1 year, he has delivered. Let's just start at the southern  border. President Trump restored order by ending catch and release,  reinstating proven enforcement policies, and deploying the resources  necessary to defend our homeland. The results were immediate and  historic.

Illegal crossings collapsed to their lowest levels since the 1970s.  Net migration turned negative for the first time in 50 years. Fentanyl  trafficking at the southern border was cut by more than half, saving  American lives and criminal cartels designated as terrorist  organizations were stopped and the rule of law was reinstated.

Thanks to President Trump and his administration, this country  removed more than 2.6 million illegal aliens from the United States  through deportations and voluntary self-departures. More than 400,000  criminal illegal aliens charged with or convicted of crimes were  deported and over 2 million self-deportations, ending Biden-era release  incentives and restoring credible consequences.

This administration proved what Washington refused to admit for  years: that border security works when the law is enforced. President  Biden used to say that Congress needed to pass bipartisan legislation.  No, actually, as it turns out, Mr. Speaker, all we needed was a  President with a backbone to secure our border; and that President is  Donald Trump.

At the same time, President Trump rebuilt an economy that works for  all Americans. Congress passed the largest tax cut in American history,  delivering relief directly to families and workers. No taxes on tips,  overtime, and Social Security, but in my district, I will share two  perfect examples of why this legislation really helps people.

The made in America tax provision in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act,  the working families tax cut bill, resulted in immediate investment. A  $2.5 billion investment in Harrodsburg, in Mercer  County, Kentucky, in my district where Apple--making the iPhone-- decided to move jobs out of China to Kentucky. Now, as a result of the  President's leadership and this Republican Congress and the working  families tax cut bill, all the Gorilla Glass, as they call it, will be  made for the iPhone and Apple watches at the Corning plant in  Harrodsburg, Kentucky. That is a $2.5 billion investment specifically  because of this bill in my district.

In addition, we are known as the horse capital of the world in  Lexington, Kentucky, and at Keeneland Sales, a world-famous, world- class horse sale, yearling sale, every September, it has a $6.5 billion  economic impact to the Commonwealth of Kentucky. We are very proud of  that, but because of the restoration of the 100 percent bonus  depreciation, they set a record this past September, $531 million of  yearling horses sold. That means jobs for working Kentuckians.

Mr. Speaker, that means more economic activity for working families  in Kentucky. That means all the ancillary businesses all the way down  to the farriers and the grooms and the restaurants. All of that money  gets recirculated into the central Kentucky economy.

There were over 50 yearlings that were sold for over $1 million each.  The results were phenomenal. It was a record sale. People around the  country may not know about the horse industry, but that is just one  industry that was benefited by restoration of full bonus depreciation.  All the buyers at our auction said it was bonus depreciation that  resulted in this uptick in sales and economic activity.

Inflation, which crushed households under the previous  administration, is falling sharply. Wages are rising, and the American  people are going back to work. Mr. Speaker, 2.4 percent is where  inflation is now--near the Fed's target for price stability--down 70  percent from the height of Biden's inflation crisis. We also have the  lowest mortgage rates in 3 years.

This is where I really think the administration's economic record is  something to behold. We have seen the largest and fastest blue-collar  wage growth in 60 years. It is not just that prices are coming down. It  is that real wages, inflation-adjusted wages, are going up for the  American people.

This wasn't an accident. It was the result of pro-growth policy. It  was not just the tax cuts but deregulation. It decreased the cost of  business so those businesses could afford to retain those workers  through higher wages and faster wage growth.

Confidence is returning to the American economy, and President Trump  has taken us from energy desperate under the previous administration to  energy dominant again.

He declared a national energy emergency. He unleashed record oil and  natural gas production. He reopened millions of acres for responsible  energy development, and he rolled back radical regulations that were  driving up costs.

President Trump, in Kentucky, thank you. Thank you for putting  Kentucky coal miners back to work and putting Kentucky coal back in our  bloodstream. We don't have a choice anymore. Under the last 16 years,  we prematurely retired 290 coal-fired power plants, while China is  building two new coal plants a week. They are committed to winning the  AI race.

We took over 120 gigawatts of power offline. The energy demands of  our country are skyrocketing because of the technologies of the future,  because of digital asset innovation, because of quantum computing and,  yes, because of artificial intelligence.

Mr. Speaker, it is predicted and projected that by 2030 power demands  resulting from datacenter construction will triple just at a time when  we have been taking all of this power supply off of our grid and out of  our system.

We now have a President who is reversing those disastrous choices and  putting our coal miners back to work so that we can revitalize this  signature industry for the Commonwealth of Kentucky and power the  technologies of the future to win the race for AI dominance.

President Trump ended the war on coal. He expanded coal leasing,  rolled back Biden-era rules targeting coal-fired power plants, and  restored commonsense permitting.

Coal remains critical for grid reliability, baseload power, and  national energy security. I am proud to fight side by side with  President Trump to ensure that our miners can go back to work, our  lights can stay on, and our energy stays American so that we can  compete and win against China.

It is no surprise that gas prices fell to their lowest levels in  years, lowering costs for families, farmers, and manufacturers across  our country.

Let's not forget about all the accomplishments on the world stage.  President Trump restored American leadership and American strength. He  got rid of DEI woke ideology at the Pentagon. He focused on rebuilding  American military readiness and lethality and prioritizing the strength  of the American military over liberal leftwing politics. The result was  clear. He restored American leadership.

He destroyed Iran's nuclear weapons capability. He reimposed maximum  pressure on rogue regimes. He restored peace to our key ally Israel,  returning the hostages. He dismantled and degraded the capabilities of  Hamas and Gaza. He worked with our allies in the IDF.

He dismantled the narcoterrorist dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro in  Venezuela. He negotiated peace agreements on four different continents,  proving that strength deters conflict and leadership produces peace.

Our allies stepped up. Our adversaries stepped back. America, once  again, led from a position of strength and confidence. The results  speak for themselves.

We have a stronger economy, lower inflation, higher wages, lower  energy costs, a secure border, energy dominance, and economic  resurgence. We have a restoration of the American Dream and a  restoration of common sense.

There are no biological men in the private spaces of our daughters.  There are no biological men competing against girls in their sports.

Thank goodness we have common sense in this country once again. Thank  goodness we have a President who looks to the future and who wants to  position the United States to be the leader, the crypto capital of the  world.

He signed into law the GENIUS Act--legislation, Mr. Speaker, that you  and I worked on together--and put in motion an AI action plan to ensure  that we can be the dominant leader in artificial intelligence. AI has  applications across financial services, education, medicine,  pharmaceutical development, and manufacturing efficiency and  productivity. We have only begun to see all its potential. AI will help  us deter our adversaries through the applications that AI presents by  strengthening the capabilities of our military.

Mr. Speaker, as President Trump would say, the golden age is here. We  must continue to support our President as he leads this Nation forward.  I am proud to work with him to make America great again.