Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of the Department of the Treasury Relating to the Review of Applications Under the Bank Merger Act


Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 426, I call up  the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 13) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of the  Department of the Treasury relating to the review of applications under  the Bank Merger Act, and ask for its immediate consideration in the  House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this joint resolution of  disapproval that would nullify the Office of the Comptroller of the  Currency's final rule that makes it more difficult for banks to merge  and merge in a healthy way. That is why I introduced the House  companion, H.J. Res. 92.

Today, we have the opportunity to prevent future administrations from  issuing arbitrary rules on mergers and acquisitions that lack robust  cost-benefit analysis and would make it significantly harder for  financial institutions to grow and compete.

Banks in the great Commonwealth of Kentucky and throughout the  country are facing challenges in managing the high costs of complex  regulations. Furthermore, customers now demand advanced technological  features, such as mobile and online banking, which require substantial  capital investments.

Mergers often present the only viable path for these institutions to  keep up with these regulatory and technological costs and continue  serving their local communities.

They also play a vital role in ensuring the safety and soundness of  the financial system. By enabling stronger, well-managed institutions  to acquire weaker ones, especially those struggling due to local  economic conditions, we can prevent bank failures and the panic that  they cause.

Instead of making it harder for banks to merge, we should be  eliminating outside obstacles to mergers, enhancing competition and  innovation, and ensuring that Americans, especially those in rural and  underserved communities, retain access to physical branches with  employees who understand their local economies.

That is why I introduced H.R. 1900, the Bank Failure Prevention Act,  which includes a shot clock to ensure timely decisions on merger  applications.

Mr. Speaker, I come from Kentucky. It is a basketball-crazed  Commonwealth, and we care about the shot clock. Congress should care  about the shot clock on merger applications, as well.

My bill would restore fairness and predictability, preventing delays  and giving banks the stability they need to focus on serving their  customers and growing their businesses.

The Bank Failure Prevention Act will help community banks and  regional banks thrive in today's competitive environment, providing for  a shot clock on the review of those merger applications and providing  better outcomes for consumers.

I look forward to marking up this important legislation in the House  Financial Services Committee this week.

The OCC's merger rule under the Biden administration would have taken  us in the exact opposite direction. It would have upended decades of  precedent by shifting the burden onto banks to prove their merger  should be approved rather than requiring the OCC to demonstrate how the  merger conflicts with statutory factors.

This would be fundamentally unfair, increasing confusion for banks  seeking to merge and massively increasing the delay on the pendency and  review of these applications without any kind of deadline on the  review.

Additionally, the rule would have abandoned expedited review for  mergers for small, well-capitalized banks. Before the Biden-era  regulation, there was an opportunity for expedited review of healthy  mergers when there were small and well-capitalized institutions  involved. Unfortunately, because of the Biden regulation, this resulted  in a much more protracted process.

Expedited reviews are essential to avoid prolonged, costly merger  review processes that hinder banks from maintaining their employee base  or investing in technology. Instead, long-drawn-out application  processes create an environment of uncertainty due to regulatory  delays, even when the proposed transaction is relatively simple.

At the end of the day, Mr. Speaker, consumers are the ones who are  hurt most when their banks are caught in limbo and forced to devote  resources to navigate the merger process instead of enhancing their own  products and services.

The Democratic-led OCC rule was driven more by a progressive ideology  against mergers in all sectors of all kinds in the economy rather than  sound, rational policymaking. In fact, the Biden-Harris OCC did not  even coordinate with the other banking regulators, such as the Federal  Reserve Board, before issuing this final rule.

Creating different merger rules for banks with different charters  would add significant ambiguity for both banks and their customers.

Thankfully, the current OCC under President Trump has recently  indicated they will abandon this flawed rule. However, without this  Congressional Review Act resolution, there is nothing to prevent a  future administration from reintroducing this damaging rule that would  prevent healthy, beneficial mergers from occurring. Community and  regional banks, as well as their customers, should not have to fear  that the rules will change dramatically in a few years.

Mr. Speaker, I can already anticipate the argument from my good  friend from California. I know what she is going to say here in just a  few minutes. She is going to say: Look at the Republicans. They are  supporting mergers of big, bad banks, and that hurts Americans.

To the contrary, Mr. Speaker. Allowing healthy mergers to prevent  bank failures allows for healthy financial institutions to compete with  the big Wall Street banks. If you want more competition for big Wall  Street banks, you should support this resolution of disapproval because  you are going to create stronger competitors to the big Wall Street  banks.

Opposing this resolution, like the gentlewoman and ranking member of  our committee is about ready to do, is defending the regulatory moat  that protects big banks from real competition.

The Democrats' opposition here is defending big banks without  competition, and that is why I urge all of my colleagues on both sides  of the aisle to support healthy competition to prevent bank failures  and to disapprove of this unwise regulation from the Biden  administration.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this resolution  and prevent the regulatory whipsaw that has proven so detrimental for  banking institutions and the American people who rely on them. I  reserve the balance of my time.

Before I yield some time to my good friend from Florida, I will take  the opportunity to respond to a few of the points that my friend from  California made that maybe she is misunderstanding what the law  actually says.

When I refer to the law, I am referring to the Congressional Review  Act, which is the statute that we are invoking here to invalidate this  Biden-era regulation.

The gentlewoman from California says that: This is a waste of time.  The Trump OCC has rescinded the rule. We don't need to do this. I would  remind the gentlewoman from California the reason why we need to do  this. The reason why we are invoking the provisions  of the Congressional Review Act is that passing a resolution of  disapproval under this law ensures that a substantially similar bad  rule can never be reintroduced in the future without scrutiny.

We obviously know that there are bad regulators from the prior  administration that prevented healthy mergers that would have prevented  bank failures. There is no guarantee that we are not going to have an  equally bad regulator in the future. That is why we have to take out  this insurance policy against bad regulators in the future.

That is what the CRA is. It sends a clear message about balanced  regulations that foster competition and innovation without excessive  bureaucracy, and it safeguards against unchecked regulatory actions,  ensuring that future rules undergo careful oversight.

Now I will address this assertion that bank merger applications are  just rubber-stamped by regulators. If there is any evidence that that  is not true, it is proof from the prior administration. Not only was  there not a rubberstamp, there was so much scrutiny that they never  happened. They languished. There was no shot clock. There was no  review. They just sat there and languished.

Do you know what happened as a result? Banks withered on the vine  waiting for a decision because of regulatory paralysis from the  previous administration. There was hardly a rubberstamp. There was  never a decision.

Frankly, all we are asking for is a decision one way or another, Mr.  Speaker, yes or no, green light, red light. Don't just sit there in  purgatory forever and not make a doggone decision. That is the problem  we are trying to fix.

With respect to the gentlewoman's concern about closed branches, we  are concerned about the lack of branches. We are concerned about  banking deserts. That is exactly why Republicans introduced a  resolution to allow for more de novo charters. We want more banks, not  less. We want more competition, not less. We want those new banks to  form in those underserved communities, urban, rural, suburban, wherever  they are. We need more.

Mr. Speaker, my question to the gentlewoman, the ranking member, is:  Why did she vote against that? If she is so concerned about no  branches, not enough branches, banking deserts, why is she voting  against making it easier for new banks to form in those places where  there are no financial services?

Mr. Speaker, as to our Democratic colleagues' concern that this  legislation and allowing for healthy mergers to happen in the banking  sector would somehow diminish financial services or that customer  service would somehow be lost, it is actually the opposite.

When you have healthy mergers among, especially, community banks or a  small regional bank acquiring a community bank, that allows them to add  scale. That allows them to invest in the very technology that provides  the customers with better services, with better, more innovative  financial services and products.

Far from losing customer service, this is a way for smaller  institutions, regional banks, to come together into combinations,  invest in more technology, to lower costs, to help those customers to  increase access to financial services in ways that they can better  compete with the megabanks.

Mr. Speaker, I will address a couple of the arguments that were just  made.

I think I heard the ranking member say that what we are trying to do  is let them do whatever they want to do. That is actually not at all  the case. The merger review process is a very involved process. There  is quite a bit of  scrutiny that goes into approving these mergers. In fact, what we want  to do here with the resolution disapproving of this is to actually  force the agencies to make a decision one way or the other.

The problem we have seen, especially in the previous administration,  is not necessarily that they disapproved a merger. They just didn't  make a decision. If it is in the interest of financial stability to  reject a bank merger, then that very well could be a legitimate  regulatory decision, but make the decision. That is what we are saying  here: Make the decision.

Mr. Speaker, if the gentlewoman is concerned about layoffs and  employees of banks losing their jobs, the surest way that you will have  massive layoffs and workers losing their jobs is for a bank merger  application to be presented to the agencies and have literally no  decision because guess where the acquisition target employees are going  to go. They are going to go away. They are not going to stay with the  bank.

What we are saying is: Give the merger applicant a decision one way  or the other. That is the best way you can have worker retention in the  banking sector.

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of  S.J. Res. 13 to overturn a Biden-era rule that threatens competition,  undermines community banks, and diminishes consumer choice.

Under the Biden-Harris administration, the Office of the Comptroller  of the Currency introduced unnecessary impediments to prevent healthy  bank mergers with limited justification. Community banks are the  cornerstone of local communities, and often mergers present an  opportunity to allow them to better keep up with costly compliance and  technology costs.

Unlike the Member from California, I represent a rural area in North  Carolina. I have seen firsthand what happens to banks that are not  allowed to grow; frankly, because of a lot of the overregulation that  they have had to deal with, particularly these last 4 years in the  Biden administration.

Mr. Speaker, I have seen the opposite. I have seen the fact that  North Carolina continues to grow, that thousands and thousands of  people are leaving from States like California where they are  overregulated and overtaxed. They are voting with their feet and coming  to States that are much, much more business friendly and much more  consumer friendly. That is the kind of policies that we need to be  adopting in Washington.

This resolution is going to ensure that future administrations cannot  create complicated review processes that lock out competition, provide  unnecessary delay, and keep things in limbo for unknown periods of  time.

In the true spirit of competition, this resolution cuts burdensome  red tape and allows banks to get back to what they do best: serving  customers and serving communities. This is a step in the right  direction.

Mr. Speaker, comments were made earlier on the other side about the  big, beautiful bill that we are going to be passing hopefully this  week. This is another step to move this economy forward, to finally  unshackle American energy, to finally move forward and reduce taxes,  and to let that American spirit continue to grow.

These are the kinds of things that we need to be doing. These are the  kinds of things that we are doing, and I appreciate the gentleman  yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his excellent comments. I  think another important point that needs to be made in the context of  this resolution of disapproval of the Biden-era OCC rule is what is  actually happening in the marketplace.

I think the arguments made on the other side of the aisle assume an  antiquated market where the only competition that exists are banks,  competing with banks. That is not the case anymore. We are living in  2025. In 2025, the advent of all kinds of nonbank financial services  has to be taken into account when you look at the merger landscape in  banking.

We have fintechs. We have nonbanks. There are credit unions. There is  farm credit. There are all kinds of payment systems, movement to  stablecoins and the blockchain. Financial services look a whole lot  different than it did even 25 years ago.

Mr. Speaker, when you are doing an analysis of the propriety of a  bank merger, you can't just look at whether or not this leads to some  level of consolidation in the banking sector. You have to look at it in  terms of competition across the financial services landscape.

In order to achieve the scale, to provide the same level of services,  to provide the same level of technological convenience, and to provide  the same level of underwriting and access to capital that consumers are  being accustomed to now in this very competitive landscape, healthy  mergers are needed for banks to compete with all of the financial  technology that is happening in the economic landscape.

That is not being taken into consideration by my friends on the other  side of the aisle.

Mr. Speaker, listening to my colleague from California just reminds  me to make the point that economies of scale are not inherently bad.  Economies of scale and big, large financial institutions serve our  economy. Community banks serve our economy. Midsize banks serve our  economy. Regional banks serve our economy. Super-regional banks serve  our economy, and big banks serve our economy. They serve different  parts of the economy.

At the larger end, the globally and systemically important financial  institutions make markets. They are part of why we have the deepest,  most liquid, and most competitive capital markets on planet Earth. This  is not a bad thing. This is a good thing.

Those large institutions are capable of serving large, multinational  corporations that make the United States a destination for capital  flows in our country. They are a magnet for foreign direct investment.  They help us with countering terrorism. They give us a global  visibility that we wouldn't have if we didn't have large globally  important financial institutions that were forward positioned in other  continents that allowed us visibility into financial flows and helped  our law enforcement and our intelligence agencies find bad actors.

That is a good thing. That is not a bad thing. It is important,  though, that we preserve the dynamism and the diversity of our banking  sector. That is why we also want large regional banks, regional banks,  midsize banks, and, yes, community banks and microbanks. We want it  all. It is the diversity and heterogeneity of the banking sector that  makes our system the best in the world.

That is why we want healthy mergers. We want de novo charters to  backfill, but we want healthy mergers so that we have a constantly  dynamic and healthy banking system.

Now, the gentlewoman cites this one particular case of fraud in one  large bank, and she is right. It was a bad case, and it was properly  punished by the regulators. She cites to a case of cross-selling and  overly aggressive marketing and a sales goals program and compliance  problems. It is true. There were, but it is not because there are  healthy mergers in this country that that happened. That is not why  that happened. That could have happened in a regional bank. That could  have happened even in a smaller bank. It happened to happen in a larger  bank, but guess what?

There are a lot of other large banks in this country where they  didn't have those problems. When there are problems, that is why we  have regulators and bank examiners. They fix those problems to make  sure that they never happen again. You know what can help prevent those  problems from happening even more than regulators, even more than  central planning from Washington? Mr. Speaker, it is competition and  choice.

That particular institution that the gentlewoman is talking about,  maybe they didn't have enough competition. Maybe they didn't have  enough competition, Mr. Speaker, because we had regulators that  prevented healthy mergers to enter into their market space and actually  compete and take customers who are unsatisfied with that cross-selling.

The whole point here is that we want a dynamic marketplace so that we  can create competition. That is the best form of consumer protection,  not a regulator, not an examiner, not regulatory inaction, or  regulatory indecision. That is not consumer protection, but healthy  mergers that allow for greater competition of the big banks. That is  the way to protect consumers.

I will make one other point before I reserve, as well. When we say  that large banks are not inherently bad, what we mean by that is that  when you allow for a merger, let's say, of two regional banks, and you  allow that scale, that economies of scale to take place, and where  there are investments in technology, not only do you give the customers  of that larger institution, that successor merged institution with  greater resources to provide lower cost services, more technological  advancements, but, yes, you allow them to invest in what? They invest  in consumer protection.

You allow them to make sure that people in their organization are not  making mistakes with cross-selling, making sure that they are using the  latest technology to ensure that everybody is getting the right deal  and the best deal and the most financial inclusion possible given that  particular customer's circumstances.

Far from promoting problems, this resolution will actually help solve  the problems.

Mr. Speaker, let me give you an example of where a merger that was  recently approved certainly doesn't hurt consumers but helps consumers  and creates more competition.

The gentlewoman cites the approval of the Capital One-Discover  merger. Do you know what that merger did? It created a third option, in  addition to MasterCard and Visa, for consumers to access in terms of a  payment network. That is not diminishing competition. That is creating  more competition. It is more competition for Visa and more competition  for MasterCard. Ask Visa and MasterCard. They will tell you.

This is a very formidable competitor to MasterCard and Visa now that  there is an approved merger between Capital One, a substantial credit  card business, a substantial payment business, and Discover with their  substantial network. You create a third option for consumers. That is  procompetition, not anticompetition.

I will make another point. This is not just about big banks. It is  about small community banks. We are scrutinizing today the Biden OCC's  regulation.

What did that regulation do, Mr. Speaker? It eliminated expedited  procedures for approval of what? It eliminated expedited procedures for  approval of community bank mergers, small noncomplex mergers that would  allow those community banks to serve those small communities better.  That regulation eliminated that.

Here is what the trade association of the smallest banks in America  says about that Biden regulation. Here is what the small banks say  about that regulation.

``ICBA strongly opposes the elimination of the expedited review and  streamlined applications. . . . not every transaction is complex. For  example, in instances where two community banks within the same market  attempt to merge, and the merger does not pose significant financial  stability, consumer protection, competition or safety, and soundness  concerns, the OCC should treat the transaction as noncomplex and permit  for review under streamlined procedures.''

It makes sense to me that we would have streamlined, expedited  procedures so that we can make sure community banks can continue to  compete. This is not about big banks. It is about small banks and the  survival of small banks under the avalanche of red tape that came at  them after Dodd-Frank, after the avalanche of competition from nonbanks  and credit unions and fintechs and blockchain companies. We want these  small banks to survive, to continue to serve their communities. This is  the way they do it.

Finally, I will make a point that hasn't really been discussed here  today in this debate; that is, we should remember the lessons of  Silicon Valley Bank. There was a very, very significant panic because  of the failure of Silicon Valley Bank and there was a run on that bank.

We don't want that to happen again. We don't want a panic. We don't  want a run. We want to prevent bank failures, and the way to prevent  bank failures is to allow strong banks to acquire weak banks. We want  to make sure that a failing bank can be saved by a white knight.  Delaying approvals of healthy mergers is very dangerous for financial  stability.

We need this legislation so that we never have a bad regulation that  would prevent regulators from allowing expedited approval of mergers  that help save the system.

Mr. Speaker, former Federal Reserve Governor and now-Vice Chair for  Supervision Michelle Bowman, who talked about the procompetition  benefits of healthy mergers, said: ``Reducing the efficiency of bank  M&A can be a deterrent to healthy bank transactions. It can reduce the  effectiveness of M&A activity that preserves the presence of community  banks in underserved areas, prevent institutions from pursuing prudent  growth strategies, and actually undermine competition by preventing  firms from growing to a larger scale, effectively creating a `protected  class' of larger institutions.''

Mr. Speaker, we had a hearing that was called when the ranking member  was the chair. She called in all the CEOs of the biggest banks in the  country. In this particular hearing, the gentlewoman from California  also hauled in some of the CEOs of the regional banks, the big regional  banks, in addition to the G-SIB Wall Street banks.

I noticed that the CEO of a successor institution that was formed by  the merger of two regional banks was sitting right next to the CEO of  one of the largest banks on planet Earth, so I said to the CEO of one  of the largest banks on planet Earth: This gentleman who is now the CEO  of a big regional bank is sitting next to you. Can you tell me what a  more formidable competitor to your big Wall Street bank is? Is it the  original small regional bank, the other small regional bank, or is it  the combination of those two regional banks that made a bigger regional  bank?

He said: Undoubtedly, it is the bigger regional bank that poses a  bigger competitive threat to me, the big Wall Street bank.

Not all mergers are bad. There are a lot of mergers that help create  more competition. That is what we want.

More importantly, Mr. Speaker, it provides better financial services  and products and access to the American Dream for the American people.

That is why we want to disapprove this bad regulation. That is why we  want to make sure that mergers are allowed to allow for distressed  banks to sell themselves instead of failing, thereby insulating the  Deposit Insurance Fund from losses.

This is to help financial stability, Mr. Speaker. I urge all of my  colleagues, for the reasons that we have outlined today, to help us  invalidate this bad regulation and to make sure that no regulator in  the future can pass another bad regulation like this that would prevent  healthy mergers.

For goodness' sake, if you want dynamism and competition in a diverse  banking system, support our agenda that not only allows for healthy  mergers but also provides for regulatory tailoring so that we provide  relief to small community banks so that they can compete, relief to the  regional banks so that they can compete, and, for goodness sake, clear  the way for de novo charters, new banks, to come into the system.

I don't know, for the life of me, why my friends on the other side of  the aisle who complain about big banks won't allow for healthy mergers  to compete with them, won't allow for new banks to come into the system  by overregulating the heck out of the sector, and won't allow there to  be a dynamic, diverse banking system.

Mr. Speaker, for these reasons and others, as I explained earlier, I  urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I yield back the  balance of my time.