Stop Chinese Fentanyl Act of 2025


Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Washington State and  Chairman Mast for supporting the legislation. I thank my friend, the  ranking member, the gentleman from New York (Mr. Meeks), for his  bipartisan support, as well.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my legislation, H.R. 747, the  Stop Chinese Fentanyl Act.

The fentanyl crisis is one of the most significant threats to our  country and continues to plague families and neighbors across the  United States.

My home State of Kentucky, sadly, has been ravaged by the fentanyl  crisis.

Drug overdoses are the leading cause of death for Americans aged 18  to 45, and fentanyl is responsible for nearly 70 percent of these  deaths.

Last year, the DEA seized more than 60 million fentanyl-laced fake  pills in the United States and almost 8,000 pounds of fentanyl power  equal to more than 380 million lethal doses of fentanyl.

As of last month, the 2025 seizures of fentanyl equate to over 232  million deadly doses and 70,000 of our fellow Americans succumbed to  this poison. In 2024, over 1,400 Kentuckians lost their lives to a drug  overdose, including fentanyl.

Unfortunately, this scourge has spread with the help of our greatest  strategic adversary, the People's Republic of China and the Chinese  Communist Party.

As a member of the Select Committee on the Strategic Competition  Between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party, we conducted  an investigation, and that investigation in the last Congress  established that the PRC Government, under the control of the Chinese  Communist Party, directly subsidizes the manufacturing and export of  illicit fentanyl materials and other synthetic narcotics through tax  rebates.

Many of these substances are illegal under the PRC's own laws and  have no known legal use worldwide. Like its export tax rebates for  legitimate goods, the CCP's subsidies of illegal drugs incentivize  international synthetic drug sales from the People's Republic of China,  and the CCP never disclosed this program.

In addition, the select committee found that the CCP gave monetary  grants and awards to companies openly trafficking illicit fentanyl  materials and other synthetic narcotics. There are even examples of  some of these companies enjoying site visits from provincial PRC  Government officials, who complimented them for their impact on the  provincial economy.

The CCP holds an ownership interest in several PRC companies tied to  drug trafficking, including a PRC Government prison connected to human  rights abuses, owning a drug trafficking chemical company, and a  publicly traded PRC company hosting thousands of instances of open drug  trafficking on its sites.

The PRC failed to prosecute fentanyl and precursor manufacturers.  Rather than investigating drug traffickers, the Government of the PRC  security services have not cooperated with U.S. law enforcement and  have even notified targets of U.S. investigations when they receive  requests for assistance.

The PRC allows for the open sale of fentanyl precursors and other  illicit materials on the extensively monitored and controlled PRC  internet. A review of just seven e-commerce sites found over 31,000  instances of PRC companies selling illicit chemicals with obvious ties  to drug trafficking. Undercover communications with PRC drug  trafficking companies revealed an eagerness to engage in clearly  illicit drug  sales with no fear of reprisal. The government in China censors content  about domestic drug sales, but leaves export-focused narcotic content  untouched.

We know that China has historically been and remains the primary  source of fentanyl in global circulation through the production of  these precursor chemicals and outsourcing the final production to  cartel labs in Mexico. That is why it is paramount that Congress pass  my legislation that is being considered here today, the Stop Chinese  Fentanyl Act.

My bill amends the Fentanyl Sanctions Act to expand the definition of  ``foreign opioid trafficker'' to include certain Chinese entities and  government officials that fail to take steps to prevent opioid  trafficking, subjecting them to sanctions. The bill also requires the  President to determine whether the heads of the National Narcotics  Control Commission, the Ministry of Public Security, the General  Administration of Customs, and the National Medical Products  Administration of the Government of the PRC are foreign opioid  traffickers.

We must attack the production of fentanyl by targeting the source of  precursors in China.

Chinese producers of synthetic opioids and opioid precursors and  senior government and Chinese political officials' culpability does not  end when their precursor products land in Mexico or illegally cross our  southern border. We must look at every step of fentanyl's deadly supply  chain and hold our adversaries accountable.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.