200th Anniversary of the Town of Cutler


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699424/200th-anniversary-of-the-town-of-cutler


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, in 1826, 6 years after Maine became our  Nation's 23rd State, a small fishing town was incorporated in downeast  Maine. Cutler, named after Joseph Cutler, an early settler from  Massachusetts, is a beacon of Maine's nationally renowned beauty and a  stronghold for Maine's traditional lobstering sector. From its humble  beginnings to a booming fishing industry, Cutler remains a great pearl  of the State of Maine.

During the mid-19th century, Cutler Harbor fostered substantial  growth in the town's fishing industry, lumber shipping, and small boat  operations. Known as the Harbor of Refuge, it became a safe place for  fisherman to ride out the vicious storms of the coast.

As the town grew, Cutler played an important role in the promotion of  maritime safety and American national security. Since 1876, the Little  River Lighthouse, with a formidable cast iron tower, has guided  fishermen and has been integral to U.S. Coast Guard operations in the  area. It is now listed on the National Register of Historic Places,  ensuring its existence for generations to come.

In addition, for 65 years, the Cutler Naval Station, with one of the  most powerful radio transmitters in the world, has provided critical  communications for the U.S. Navy's submarine fleet, anywhere in the  world, whether on the surface or submerged.

Cutler is home to Maine's spectacular Bold Coast. The Cutler Coast  Public Reserved land boasts an abundance of scenic hiking trails,  peatlands, secluded beaches, and wild ocean views, offering a stunning  example of the beauty that defines the State of Maine. In addition,  Cutler remains a hub of the Maine blueberry industry that produces  almost 85 percent of the world's wild blueberries.

Cutler's spirit and historic connection to America's freedom  continues today. Every Fourth of July, the townspeople honor the  courage, sacrifice, and vision that won our Nation's independence. This  year's observation will be especially meaningful with the addition of a  fun-filled bicentennial celebration.

The Maine State motto is ``Dirigo,'' meaning ``I Lead.'' With the  beacon from its Little River Lighthouse lighting the way, Cutler has a  bright and hopeful future. I congratulate the people of Cutler, ME, on  this 200th anniversary and wish them all the best in the years to come.