200th Anniversary of the Town of Carthage


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700097/200th-anniversary-of-the-town-of-carthage


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, among the robust pines of western Maine,  Carthage was founded on February 20, 1826. Today, it is an honor to  join the people of Carthage, ME, in celebrating the 200th anniversary  of a community that is a great place to live, work, and raise families.

Prior to the founding of Carthage, the land was used as hunting  grounds by the Wabanaki people. The Wabanaki hunted white-tailed deer,  moose, beavers, ducks, and grouse throughout the region.

In 1804, Mr. William Bowley moved onto the land, accompanied by his  brother Oliver and father Gideon. The Bowley family built the first  sawmill, called Bowley's Mills, on Webb River at the base of Lake Webb.  Webb River drains to the Androscoggin River, making the location  particularly appealing. The family went on to build a gristmill close  by the following year. The land was considered formally settled in 1812  and then founded in 1826 with the fabled city of antiquity as its  namesake.

By the 1880s, the town had grown to more than 500 residents and had  farms, two sawmills, five schools, a gristmill and limestone quarry.  Centuries later, the town retains the charm and rugged beauty that  attracted the first settlers. The town's economy was originally  dominated by forests and farms. Today, the town attracts outdoor  enthusiasts from throughout Maine and beyond to Rocky Mountain Terrain  Park and nearby Mt. Blue State Park.

Carthage is also home to Newman Cemetery, a reminder of the  townspeople's service to the State and country. In this historic  cemetery, lie the remains of founding families, as well as veterans of  the Revolutionary War and Civil War.

Hiram Pitt Bennet was born in Carthage in 1826, the year of the  town's founding. Bennet moved west to Colorado, where he was elected a  territory Delegate to Congress. During his time in Congress, Bennet  worked tirelessly to push for Colorado's statehood. The legacy of his  advocacy and public service continue to live on as testament to the  fine people of Carthage.

Carthage stands as a shining example of the thriving communities and  pristine nature our great State of Maine has to offer. I congratulate  the people of Carthage, ME, on this 200th anniversary and wish you all  the best in the years to come.