225th Anniversary of the Town of Strong


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699397/225th-anniversary-of-the-town-of-strong


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, nestled among the rugged wilderness of  the western Maine mountains, the town of Strong, ME, was incorporated  on January 31, 1801. This 225th anniversary is a time to celebrate the  spirit of determination and resiliency that still guides the community  today.

Strong's incorporation was but one milestone on a long journey of  progress. For thousands of years, the abundant forests and waters of  the region were the hunting grounds of the Native American Tribes. The  very first house that laid the foundation for a permanent community was  built in 1780 by a Wabanki known as Pierpole. Drawn by the rich natural  resources, other settlers followed, and at the dawn of the 19th  century, the town was established by Massachusetts Governor Caleb  Strong.

The rich soil supported prosperous farms and the fast-moving Sandy  River powered lumber and grain mills. In the years that followed,  Strong became a rural industrial powerhouse, including footwear,  furniture, textiles, and Maine's first cheese factory. By the mid-20th  century, the Forster Manufacturing Company was the world's largest  maker of toothpicks, producing some 20 million per day.

The townspeople used their prosperity to built what has been called  ``the prettiest village in Maine,'' with handsome homes, churches, and  schools. Education remains a center of community life, with the high- performing Strong Elementary School being named a National Blue Ribbon  School.

From the American Revolution to our time, Strong has always been a  town of patriots, with a veterans memorial paying tribute to those who  defend freedom. Among the most illustrious veterans is Lt. James  Porter. After graduating from West Point in 1869, he served with the  7th Cavalry in the Reconstruction Era South under George Armstrong  Custer and distinguished himself by his courage during the mission the  eradicate the Ku Klux Klan. In 1876, he was among the 268 members of  the legendary regiment who fell at the Battle of the Little Bighorn.

In recent years, the townspeople have worked together to dedicate the  Lance Corporal Scott B. Paul Memorial Park in honor of the young marine  who fell  in 1992 during the Gulf War. A section of the beautiful park, the Sgt.  Richard Parker Memorial Wing, pays tribute to a local hero who made the  ultimate sacrifice in Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2007.

Every summer, the town celebrates it history and community spirit  with Pierpole Days, a festival of parades, food, music, and family fun.  The 2026 festival will surely be a memorable celebration of the people  who for more than two centuries have pulled together, cared for one  another, and built a community. I congratulate the town of Strong, ME,  on this landmark anniversary.