225th Anniversary of the Town of Leeds


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700172/225th-anniversary-of-the-town-of-leeds


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, in 1801, a small town nestled between  Androscoggin Lake and River was incorporated and named after Leeds,  England, the ancestral home of the first settlers Thomas and Roger  Stinchfield. Today, it is an honor to join the people of Leeds, ME, in  celebrating the 225th anniversary of a community that is a beautiful  place to live, work, and raise a family.

Leeds, initially part of the Littleborough Plantation, was settled as  early as the 1780s, with fertile land and plentiful water nourishing  the first families. As Leeds developed, so did agriculture and small- scale manufacturing that proved to be not only self-sufficient but also  the backbone of its economy. By the mid-19th century, improved roads  connected Leeds to other surrounding communities that made it a center  for agriculture and, eventually, recreation. Today, Leeds' natural  beauty has led to the rise of boating and fishing on Androscoggin Lake,  turning quaint farmstands into a seasonal retreat in central Maine.

The proud history of Leeds is etched in stone atop Monument Hill,  where the Civil War Peace Monument stands as a tribute to the town's  extraordinary service. Erected by the distinguished Howard brothers in  1895, this monument honors the 161 local soldiers and sailors who  served in the American Civil War, in which Leeds had the highest per  capita enlistment of any town in Maine. Major General Oliver Otis  Howard's leadership shaped the Nation's path toward emancipation,  making his impact felt today at Howard University, which he founded.  The Howard brothers' commitment to freedom spanned beyond the  battlefield by bringing escaped slave George Washington ``Wash'' Kemp,  who served in the Union Army alongside both Howard brothers, back to  Leeds, making it his eventual home.

Another fascinating example of Leeds' dedication to public service  can be seen in the Curtis Homestead Conservation Area. The 360-acre  property that once served as the home of Maine Governor Kenneth M.  Curtis features remnants of a farmhouse and barn built in the 1840s,  offering visitors a glimpse into life in Leeds during the 19th century.

Maine is known as Vacationland, and Leeds is one reason why. With  water for recreation, nature preserves for walking and hiking, and a  rich history, there is always something to explore.

The celebration of Leeds' landmark anniversary is not merely about  the passage of time; it is about resilience, service, and the enduring  strength of community. We honor the people of Leeds who stood together  in times of war, worked together to build a thriving town, and created  a legacy that spans more than two centuries. Their effort and  dedication ensure that Leeds has a bright future.