Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699144/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, just now, the Senate passed three more of  the fiscal year 2026 appropriations bills by a strong bipartisan vote.  These bills support State and local law enforcement, invest in vital  scientific research, promote economic development, help protect our  national security, and assist our coastal communities.

This fiscally responsible package includes the Commerce-Justice- Science bill, the Energy and Water Development appropriations, and the  Interior and Environment funding bill. This package is the result of a  great deal of input from Members on both sides of the aisle, and it  represents months of bipartisan and bicameral negotiations.

Last week, this three-bill package passed the House by an  overwhelming vote of 397 to 28, and the Senate just followed suit with  a very strong bipartisan vote.

I want to thank and commend our subcommittee chairs and ranking  members as well as their staffs, who labored over the holidays to  finalize this package.

Specifically, I want to thank Senators Murkowski and Merkley of the  Interior Subcommittee, Senators Moran and Van Hollen of the CJS  Subcommittee, and Senators Kennedy and Murray of the Energy and Water  Subcommittee. Senator Murray is also vice chair of the full committee,  and I want to thank her for her partnership in getting these bills  done. I want to thank the staff of the full committee. They have worked  night and day--literally every night and every day--and I am so  grateful for their dedication and hard work.

This legislation would actually reduce discretionary spending while  better focusing funding on the key priorities that matter and affect  the American people. Perhaps most importantly, it shows that we as a  Congress can come together in a bipartisan way to carry out our article  I responsibilities and deliver true results for the people we are  honored to represent.

Enacting this legislation brings the total number of full-year fiscal  year 2026 appropriations that will be signed into law to six. The first  three bills--the Agriculture, Military Construction and Veterans  Affairs, and Legislative Branch--were enacted in November. Now we have  to continue to complete the job and make progress on the remainder of  the appropriations bills.

Yesterday, after extensive negotiations between the Senate and the  House, the House passed the National Security, State Department, and  Related Programs bill as well as the Financial Services and General  Government appropriations bills--again, by a strong bipartisan vote of  341 to 79.

I look forward to the Senate's considering these bills as well as the  remaining four appropriations bills before the end of the month.

Our goal is to get all of these bills signed into law--no continuing  resolutions that lock in previous priorities that don't reflect today's  realities, no more disastrous government shutdowns that are totally  unnecessary and so harmful.

Again, I want to thank my colleagues for supporting the final passage  of this important package so that we can send it to the President for  his signature.