Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699433/consolidated-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, Members of Congress understand the needs  of our constituents far better than any well-intentioned Federal  employee located here in Washington.

The CDS projects provide funding for States, communities, and  nonprofit organizations. The process is completely open and  transparent. Senators who submit such requests are required to post  their requests on their official websites, along with a certification  that neither they nor their immediate family members have any financial  interest in the items requested.

All of the fiscal year 2026 CDS requests submitted to the  Appropriations Committee can be found in a searchable table that has  been posted on the committee's website.

Ms. COLLINS. I urge our colleagues to defeat this amendment, and I  move to table.

Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I call up my amendment No. 4273 and ask  that it be reported by number.

Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support the  funding package that is before us. It includes full-year funding for  the following bills: the Department of Defense; Financial Services and  General Government; Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education;  National Security; Department of Defense; Transportation, Housing and  Urban Development.

Colleagues, when we pass this package and when it is signed into law  on top of the previous packages, we will have funded 96 percent of all  of government.

(Applause.)

Mr. President, the package also continues funding for the Department  of Homeland Security for 2 weeks to allow us additional time to  evaluate further changes in ICE procedures beyond those that we have  already included in this bill.

Let me end by thanking our Appropriations Committee members for the  tremendous efforts that they put into getting us to this wonderful  achievement. These are fiscally responsible bills that reflect months  of hard work and deliberation from Members from both parties and both  sides of the Capitol.

Enacting this package will represent a major milestone and show that  Congress can work together in a bipartisan manner to carry out our  article I responsibilities and deliver real results for the people that  we are honored to represent.

Again, my thanks to the leadership and to the committee members and,  of course, to our great staff. I urge my colleagues to support this  important package.                              Vote on H.R. 7148