Town of Whiting 200th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693257/town-of-whiting-200th-anniversary


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, the Town of Whiting, ME, observes its  bicentennial this July with a 3-day celebration that includes a  Revolutionary  War reenactment, displays of antique farm and lumbering tools,  historical presentations, quilts and other local crafts, great food,  and good friendship. This long-planned event demonstrates why Whiting  prides itself on being a small town with a big spirit.

The Revolutionary War reenactment is especially significant as one of  the early settlers of the wilderness of far Downeast Maine after  America won its independence was a hero of that conflict, General John  Crane. A Massachusetts carpenter, Crane was a leader of the Sons of  Liberty and was the only rebel injured during the Boston Tea Party.

Crane recovered and was commissioned as a Continental Army artillery  officer who distinguished himself at Bunker Hill. Despite losing part  of a foot to a cannon shot in 1776, he continued to serve and became  the top commander of the U.S. Corps of Artillery. After the war, a  grateful new nation granted the remarkable patriot a land grant on the  coast of Maine.

With vast forest lands and fast-moving rivers, General Crane's  settlement soon became a bustling lumber center with two sawmills. The  fertile soil produced productive farms of crops and livestock, and  pristine lakes, ponds, and streams supported abundant wildlife. When  the general died in 1805, he was laid to rest with honors in the  village cemetery.

Originally called Orangetown, after the river that powered the  sawmills, the town was renamed Whiting upon its incorporation in 1825  after Timothy Whiting, an early settler and the town's first  representative to the Maine Legislature.

Today, Whiting is a nature lover's paradise of gorgeous scenery and  year-round outdoor recreation. The beautifully maintained Union Meeting  House, built nearly two centuries ago, is a wonderful example of  traditional New England church architecture and a worthy addition to  the National Register of Historic Places.

Another major landmark is the Mill Pond Dam, built in 1830 where the  Orange River meets Whiting Bay. In addition to creating a place of  scenic beauty, the pond created by the stone dam has long been a  crucial source of water for firefighters. Many residents recall how  that precious water saved the town from destruction during a massive  forest fire in 1985.

In addition to structural repairs, the dam needed a new fish passage.  The Orange River is designated as Critical Habitat for Atlantic Salmon  and supports herring and other important fish species and wildlife  important to the economy and the ecosystem.

The people of Whiting stepped forward with investments of more than  $1 million for the watershed restoration project, and I was pleased to  join the effort by securing $2.9 million in Federal funds. During the  legislative process, many students at Whiting Village School wrote  letters supporting the Mill Pond Dam project. When I discussed this  funding with my Senate colleagues, those letters made a difference. It  was impressive to see young people getting involved in the future of  their community.

This 200th anniversary is not just the passing of years. It is about  the people who for more than two centuries have pulled together, cared  for one another, and built a community. My congratulations to the  people of Whiting, ME, and my best wishes for the future.