Town of Sebago 200th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699146/town-of-sebago-200th-anniversary


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, in 1826, a small town on the western  shore of Sebago Lake was incorporated and took the name that has roots  in the Abenaki phrase sobagoo, or ``it is the sea.'' Today, it is an  honor to join the people of Sebago, ME, in celebrating the 200th  anniversary of a community that is a great place to live, work, and  raise families.

Initially, Sebago was known as Flintstown, as a result of the  Massachusetts General Court granting settlement in the area to the  survivors of Captain John Flint's brigade of American Revolution  soldiers. Shortly thereafter, the town was named Baldwin and saw an  influx of lumberjacks and woodsmen drawn by the abundant forests.  Despite difficult growing conditions, residents were successful in  farming, and in establishing factories to produce lumber, boots, shoes,  and barrel staves.

As the town grew, so did trade and tourism. The Cumberland and Oxford  Canal opened in 1832, tying together the Sebago Lake and Portland  economies. Later, in the 1870s, the Portland and Ogdensburg Railroad  expanded the town's hospitality industry and encouraged steamboats to  bring visitors to Sebago. What were once seasonal homes and inns  evolved into year-round abodes that contribute to Sebago's image as a  well-known resort area in southwestern Maine.

Sebago is home to many examples of charming New England architecture  on the National Register of Places. One of the most fascinating is the  Dyke Mountain Annex. It was built between 1906 and 1908 and originally  was part of the Dyke Mountain Hotel. While the rest of the resort would  later be destroyed by fire, the annex functioned as a summer hostel and  continues to be used as such by the present owners.

Another example of Sebago's small-town beauty is Fitch's General  Store and House. Built in 1870, it combined Italianate and Greek  Revival architecture. In 1920, it opened as a general store, offering  goods from groceries to hardware to gardening supplies. Although the  building has been restored as a private residence, its legacy remains a  pivotal part of the town's history.

The rich history of Sebago resides not only in beautiful  architecture, but also in honoring the tireless service of their  veterans. Words chiseled in stone at the Sebago Veterans Memorial read,  ``Sebago Honors Her Men and Women Who Served in the Wars of Their  Country.'' From the valiant service of Captain Flint and his troops in  securing American's independence to the patriots of today, Sebago  honors her people's history.

The celebration of Sebago's 200th anniversary is not merely about the  passage of time. It is about human accomplishment in the face of  adversity. We celebrate the people of Sebago who stand together, work  together, and have created community together for 200 years. Thank you  to those who came before. Sebago, ME, could not continue to thrive  without your sacrifice. Thank you to those there today. Your effort and  dedication ensure Sebago has a bright future.