Venezuela


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698694/venezuela


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the War Powers  Resolution before the Senate regarding recent U.S. actions related to  Venezuela. This is a serious and consequential matter that goes to the  heart of Congress' constitutional responsibility to authorize sustained  military engagements, define the limits of executive authority, and  protect the long-term interests of both the United States and the  Venezuelan people.

Nicolas Maduro is a narcoterrorist and international drug trafficker  whose actions led to the addiction and deaths of many Americans. He was  an illegitimate dictator who held power through stolen elections and  horrific violence against the people of Venezuela. The Biden  administration imposed a $25 million bounty for his arrest and  extradition to the United States. He was indicted twice in Federal  court and should stand trial in the United States.

With Maduro rightfully captured, the circumstances have now changed.  While I support the operation to seize Nicolas Maduro, which was  extraordinary in its precision and complexity, I do not support  committing additional U.S. forces or entering into any long-term  military involvement in Venezuela or Greenland without specific  congressional authorization.

The resolution I have supported today does not include any language  related to the removal operation. Rather, it reaffirms Congress'  ability to authorize or limit any future sustained military activity in  Venezuela, while preserving the President's inherent article II  authority to defend the United States from an armed attack or imminent  threat. I believe invoking the War Powers Act at this moment is  necessary, given the President's comments about the possibility of  ``boots on the ground'' and a sustained engagement ``running''  Venezuela, with which I do not agree.

What happens now matters greatly, both in terms of accountability for  Maduro and the future of the Venezuelan people. The long-term success  of this operation will depend on Venezuelans having the opportunity to  run Venezuela, with the support of international and private sector  partners.