Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Increasing Investor Opportunities Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Electric Supply Chain Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Interagency Coordination for Pipeline Reviews Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery; and for Other Purposes


Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today because in just 3 weeks, the  Affordable Care Act tax credits that helped millions of Americans  afford their premiums will expire. These tax credits have been a  lifeline for families and small businesses across the country. They  have allowed people to see their providers, to fill their  prescriptions, and to get the procedures that they need.

These tax credits are enormously popular because they work. Our  uninsured rate is lower than ever. That is why Democrats have been  fighting for months to extend these successful tax credits and prevent  healthcare costs from skyrocketing.

Every House Democrat has signed onto a discharge petition to extend  these tax credits for 3 years. If we defeat the previous question, we  can vote on that extension today, but if Republicans let these tax  credits expire, premiums will soar. Healthcare will be out of reach for  tens of millions of Americans. Families will be forced to go uninsured  or make incredibly tough choices just to make ends meet. This is life  or death for people.

Healthcare should be a right for everyone, not an unaffordable luxury  for the wealthy.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my Republican colleagues to vote ``no'' on the  previous question and to join us in extending these tax credits today.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.

Mr. Speaker, first of all, if you are over 65, you are not eligible  for the tax credit. If you or your spouse work for someone who even  offers health insurance, you are not eligible for the tax credit.  People on CHIP are not eligible for the tax credit. People on Medicaid  are not eligible for the tax credit. If my colleagues think that  expanding this tax credit is going to fix the problem, let me just give  you a couple of examples from my personal life.

I am covered under the Affordable Care Act today. Do you know what I  do when I go to the pharmacy? I don't file it on my health insurance. I  pay cash because the cash price is less than the copay on my health  insurance. The plans, for the most part, are junk. It is junk, and we  are not going to continue to send billions upon billions of dollars to  the insurance companies.

The President has made it very clear. We will give the people money  to help them purchase their health insurance, but we need more  competition in the system so that people could actually buy a good plan  that works for them instead of this junk that I have.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, 20 million people rely on this tax credit, so the fact  that my colleague doesn't need to rely on it and that he has enough  cash so that he can go and buy the prescriptions outright is great for  him.

Mr. Speaker, what about those 20 million Americans, many of whom are  in his district, who rely on the Affordable Care Act tax credits? Not  only that, but Americans want us to do this work. If you were listening  to the constituents in the gentleman's district--by the way, a lot of  those Republicans aren't having townhalls because their constituents  are speaking out.

Mr. Speaker, 74 percent of Americans want us to extend those tax  credits. I think it is the easiest thing and the quickest thing that we  can do. We are not saying we shouldn't continue to make improvements.  In fact, I have  bigger ideas of how we should fix the healthcare system. However, this  is the system we have today. With weeks left, it is easy. It is an easy  fix. All we need is four Republicans--four Republicans--to have the  courage to stand up for their constituents. Whether we see that or not  is yet to be seen.

My Republican colleagues send tweets out. We see Republicans signing  letters that they want the ACA extended, but we don't see them doing  what counts on the floor of the House, which is signing their names to  that discharge petition and voting for their constituents and  healthcare that is affordable for all Americans.

Stansbury), my ``sister''; ``hermana.''