Outrageous Government-Funded Incentives


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690710/outrageous-government-funded-incentives


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Knott for  shining much-needed light on this issue and for the opportunity today  to speak about some of the consequences of the Biden-Harris  administration's irresponsible actions over the past 4 years and how  Congress and the Trump administration are working to claw our way back  to sanity for the United States of America.

We have lived through the most devastating border crisis in modern  American history. Let's be honest. It wasn't a natural disaster, and it  wasn't an accident. It was the direct result of bad choices made by the  Biden-Harris administration.

This wasn't mere mismanagement. It was facilitation, it was  incentivization, and it was done at the expense of our laws, our  national security, and our people.

During their time in office, President Biden and Vice President  Harris dismantled nearly every meaningful safeguard at the southern  border. Their administration presided over a record surge in illegal  immigration, over 700,000 illegal aliens were apprehended at the border  from October through December of 2023 alone. That was more than any  full year during the Obama Presidency when President Obama famously  stated that over 1,000 illegal border crossings a day would be  considered a crisis.

The Biden-Harris Harris administration frequently allowed in 6,000 a  day.

Unfortunately, instead of restoring our control and protecting our  sovereignty, they did the unthinkable. They rewarded the lawbreakers.  Rather than empower border enforcement, the Biden-Harris administration  threw open the Federal checkbook, funneling billions of taxpayer  dollars to private nonprofits like Family Endeavors Incorporated,  Southwest Key Programs, and Global Refuge. These NGOs didn't just  shelter illegal aliens. They pampered them.

Those contracts paid for luxury hotel rooms, room service, 24-hour  snacks, laundry, bilingual television, recreation, cultural events, and  individual tutoring for mathematics and social studies. Most  shockingly, it paid for  pet therapy, music therapy, and horticultural therapy for illegal alien  children.

In 2021 alone, Endeavors paid Christy Merrell, a music therapist,  $533,000 for her services. In addition to this nonsense, the nonprofit  conducted 1,656 people-plant interactions and 287 pet therapy sessions  between April 2021 and March 2023.

This wasn't emergency aid. It was five-star treatment funded by  hardworking American families, families that are struggling to pay  their own rent and put food on their own table, much less providing  themselves with music, plant, and pet therapy.

I know many taxpaying American families who would love to be able to  provide their children with one-on-one academic tutoring but simply  cannot afford it.

This all begs the question: Why are we investing in illegal families  while stripping financial resources from our own citizens to do so?

In one case, Endeavors Incorporated, a Texas-based NGO, received a  $1.3 billion contract from the Federal Government in a single year.  Meanwhile their top executives are paid over $600,000 annually, and the  group spends more than $700,000 on lobbyists all to keep the money  flowing.

Contrast that with the conditions our military servicemembers faced  during the same time: moldy barracks, sewage overflows, and rodent  infestations to highlight a few. In 2022, a mere $56 million was spent  on housing maintenance for military families, less than one-twentieth  of what was spent for illegal aliens.

Who did the Biden-Harris administration care about? It certainly  wasn't our men and women in uniform.

Unfortunately, the extreme misuse of funds wasn't their only slight  to the American public. The Biden-Harris administration relaxed vetting  standards for those who claimed to sponsor alien children. DNA testing  was scrapped, and background checks were watered down. There were no  public records checks required for other adults living in a sponsor's  home, and tragic consequences followed.

In one case, a 24-year-old Honduran man posed as a 17-year-old child  and was placed with a sponsor in Florida who he later murdered. Sadly,  that was not a one-off failure. This type of senseless violence became  a regular news story.

While Americans were working multiple jobs to afford rent and  groceries, the Biden-Harris administration was funding a billion-dollar  pipeline for unaccompanied aliens, and empowering NGOs that had no  incentive to solve the crisis, only to profit from it.

They called it compassion, however, in reality, it was corruption,  recklessness, and disregard for the rule of law.

The good news is this: Their time in office is over. However, the  ramifications of their decisions persist. While our southern border is  certainly more secure now, we have hundreds of thousands of illegal  alien cases that will overwhelm our legal system for years. The  nonprofit industry they supercharged is still bloated, and the American  people are still waiting for real accountability.

Now is the time to fix what they broke. We must defund corrupt NGOs,  restore vetting and enforcement, and put the American people first  again. We owe it to our citizens. We owe it to our troops, and we owe  it to the integrity of this Nation. The crisis wasn't spontaneous. It  was built, funded, and incentivized. Let's make sure it is never  repeated.