President Washington's Farewell Address


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700269/president-washingtons-farewell-address


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. ``In looking forward to the moment which is  intended to terminate the career of my public life, my feelings do not  permit me to suspend the deep acknowledgment of that debt of gratitude  which I owe to my beloved country for the many honors it has conferred  upon me; still more for the steadfast confidence with which it has  supported me; and for the opportunities I have thence enjoyed of  manifesting my inviolable attachment, by services faithful and  persevering, though in usefulness unequal to my zeal. If benefits have  resulted to our country from these services, let it always be  remembered to your praise, and as an instructive example in our annals  that under circumstances in which the passions agitated in every  direction were liable to mislead, amidst appearances sometimes dubious,  vicissitudes of fortune often discouraging, in situations in which not  unfrequently want of success has countenanced the spirit of criticism,  the constancy of your support was the essential prop of the efforts,  and a guarantee of the plans by which they were effected. Profoundly  penetrated with this idea, I shall carry it with me to my grave, as a  strong incitement to unceasing vows that Heaven may continue to you the  choicest tokens of its beneficence; that your Union and brotherly  affection may be perpetual; that the free Constitution, which is the  work of your hands, may be sacredly maintained; that its administration  in every department may be stamped with wisdom and virtue; that, in  fine, the happiness of the people of these States, under the auspices  of liberty, may be made complete by so careful a preservation and so  prudent a use of this blessing as will acquire to them the glory of  recommending it to the applause, the affection, and adoption if every  nation which is yet a stranger to it.

``Here, perhaps, I ought to stop. But a solicitude for your welfare,  which cannot end but with my life, and the apprehension of danger,  natural to that solicitude, urge me on an occasion like the present, to  offer to your solemn contemplation, and to recommend to your frequent  review, some sentiments which are the result of much reflection, of no  than inconsiderable observation, and which appear to me all important  to the permanency of your felicity as a people. These will be offered  to you with the more freedom as you can only see in them the  disinterested warnings of a parting friend, who can possibly have no  personal motive to bias his counsel. Nor can I forget, as an  encouragement to it, your indulgent reception of my sentiments on a  former and not dissimilar occasion.

``Interwoven as is the love of liberty with every ligament of your  hearts, no recommendation of mine is necessary to fortify or confirm  the attachment.

``The unity of government which constitutes you one people is also  now dear to you. It is justly so; for it is a main pillar in the  edifice of your real independence, the support of your tranquility at  home, your peace abroad, of your safety, of your prosperity, of that  very liberty which you so highly prize. But as it is easy to foresee  that, from different causes and from different quarters, much pains  will be taken, many artifices employed, to weaken in your minds the  conviction of this truth; as this is the point in your political  fortress against which the batteries of internal and external enemies  will be most constantly and actively (though often covertly and  insidiously) directed, it is of infinite moment that you should  properly estimate the immense value of your national Union to your  collective and individual happiness; that you should cherish a cordial,  habitual, and immovable attachment to it; accustoming yourselves to  think and speak of it as of the palladium of your political safety and  prosperity; watching for its preservation with jealous anxiety,  discountenancing whatever may suggest even a suspicion that it can in  any event be abandoned, and indignantly frowning upon the first dawning  of every attempt to alienate any portion of our country from the rest,  or to enfeeble the sacred ties which now link together the various  parts.

``For this you have every inducement of sympathy and interest.  Citizens by birth or choice, of a common country, that country has a  right to concentrate your affections. The name of American, which  belongs to you, in your national capacity, must always exalt the just  pride of patriotism more than any appellation derived from local  discriminations.

``With slight shades of difference, you have the same religion,  manners, habits, and political principles. You have in a common cause  fought and triumphed together. The independence and liberty you possess  are the work of joint councils and joint efforts--of common dangers,  sufferings, and successes.

Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker, it goes on to say: ``It is  substantially true that virtue or morality is a necessary spring of  popular government. The rule indeed extends with more or less force to  every species of free government. Who that is a sincere friend to it  can look with indifference upon attempts to shake the foundation of the  fabric?

``Promote then, as an object of primary importance, institutions for  the general diffusion of knowledge. In proportion as the structure of a  government gives force to public opinion, it is essential that public  opinion should be enlightened.

``As a very important source of strength and security, cherish public  credit. One method of preserving it is to use it as sparingly as  possible, avoiding occasions of expense by cultivating peace, but  remembering also that timely disbursements to prepare for danger  frequently prevent much greater disbursements to repel it; avoiding  likewise the accumulation of debt, not only by shunning occasions of  expense, but by vigorous exertions in time of peace to discharge the  debts which unavoidable wars may have occasioned, not ungenerously  throwing upon posterity the burden which we ourselves ought to bear.  The execution of these maxims belongs to your representatives, but it  is necessary that public opinion should cooperate. To facilitate to  them the performance of their duty, it is essential that you should  practically bear in mind that towards the payment of debts there must  be revenue; that to have revenue there must be taxes; that no taxes can  be devised which are not more or less inconvenient and unpleasant; that  the intrinsic embarrassment inseparable from the selection of the  proper objects (which is always a choice of difficulties) ought to be a  decisive motive for a candid construction of the conduct of the  government in making it, and for a spirit of acquiescence in the  measures for obtaining revenue which the public exigencies may at any  time dictate.

``Observe good faith and justice towards all nations; cultivate peace  and harmony with all--religion and morality enjoin this conduct; and  can it be that good policy does not equally enjoin it? It will be  worthy of a free, enlightened, and, at no distant period, a  great nation, to give to mankind the magnanimous and too novel example  of a people always guided by an exalted justice and benevolence. Who  can doubt that in the course of time and things the fruits of such a  plan would richly repay any temporary advantages which might be lost by  a steady adherence to it? Can it be, that Providence has not connected  the permanent felicity of a nation with its virtue? The experiment, at  least, is recommended by every sentiment which ennobles human nature.  Alas! is it rendered impossible by its vices?

``In the execution of such a plan nothing is more essential than that  permanent, inveterate antipathies against particular nations and  passionate attachments for others should be excluded and that in place  of them just and amicable feelings towards all should be cultivated.  The nation which indulges towards another an habitual hatred or an  habitual fondness is in some degree a slave. It is a slave to its  animosity or to its affection, either of which is sufficient to lead it  astray from its duty and its interest. Antipathy in one nation against  another disposes each more readily to offer insult and injury, to lay  hold of slight causes of umbrage, and to be haughty and intractable  when accidental or trifling occasions of dispute occur. Hence frequent  collisions, obstinate, envenomed, and bloody contests. The nation,  prompted by ill will and resentment, sometimes impels to war the  government, contrary to the best calculations of policy. The government  sometimes participates in the national propensity and adopts through  passion what reason would reject; at other times, it makes the  animosity of the nation subservient to projects of hostility instigated  by pride, ambition, and other sinister and pernicious motives. The  peace often, sometimes perhaps the liberty, of nations has been the  victim.