Promises Made, Promises Kept


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694796/promises-made-promises-kept


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Madam Speaker, I rise to highlight the important  benefits the One Big Beautiful Bill Act delivered to Utah's businesses  and workers.

Madam Speaker, we had the opportunity to be in our districts for the  past month, and I had the privilege of meeting with my constituents in  Utah's Third District. At the end of this district work period, I  participated in a business-focused event with members of the Salt Lake  Chamber to discuss the One Big Beautiful Bill Act and other industry- related issues.

During this event, I was able to hear directly from local  businessowners and stakeholders about how the One Big Beautiful Bill  Act and other Federal policies are impacting businesses in my district.  What I heard was clear: Businesses want certainty. They want  competitiveness. They want opportunity. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act  delivers all three.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act makes permanent the section 199A  passthrough deduction, giving small businesses a 20 percent tax break.  For the 69,000 eligible firms in Utah, this means long-term stability  and provides them with a foundation to thrive.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act also protects about 72,000 full-time  jobs in Utah over the next 4 years relative to if the 2017 Tax Cuts and  Jobs Act had been allowed to expire.

Derek Miller, president and CEO of the Salt Lake Chamber of Commerce,  said: ``This vital legislation provides crucial long-term certainty for  Utah's businesses and families. Making these progrowth provisions  permanent empowers businesses to continue investing, innovating, and  creating jobs,  while also ensuring Utah families can keep more of their hard-earned  money and better manage their financial responsibilities.''

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act is also critical to innovative  national security-focused companies in Utah, such as Northrop Grumman  and Vector, which I had the opportunity to tour during the August work  period.

Northrop manufactures the five-segment solid rocket boosters for  NASA's Space Launch System in Utah. They are currently developing next- generation rocket boosters, which will power us to the Moon and Mars.  Thanks to the passage of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, NASA will  receive $4.1 billion for the Space Launch System for the Artemis IV and  V missions. That investment will support Utah jobs and power new  American advancement in space.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act also supports a strong national  defense by investing in America's UAS industrial base to boost U.S.  drone capabilities. In my district, companies like Vector, a veteran- owned drone manufacturer, are leading that charge, developing  technologies to strengthen the warfighter, secure our supply chain, and  drive 21st century innovation here at home. I am glad the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act will help support these capabilities and ensure  America, not China, sets the standard in this critical field.

In voting for the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, House Republicans voted  to power economic growth by boosting local production, supporting small  businesses, and strengthening America's national security. I enjoyed  discussing these issues with the Salt Lake Chamber and other groups  while in my beautiful State of Utah last month.