Providing for Consideration of H.R. Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700521/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, the gentleman  from Georgia (Mr. Jack), for the privilege of being able to speak on  this really important topic today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule to put a stop to yet  another Democrat/Schumer shutdown and fund the Department of Homeland  Security at this critical time. We all know and Democrats know that  shutdowns are bad for the American people. That has been true  regardless of which party has caused them.

Democrats have now shut down the government twice in the span of 4  months, holding the American people's safety hostage to their policy  demands.

We have just heard Democrats admit responsibility for this  nonsensical shutdown on this floor today. House Republicans negotiated  in good faith with House and Senate Democrats and produced a clean,  bipartisan funding bill for all of the Departments. That is how this  process is supposed to work.

ICE is already funded and operational, exposing the Schumer shutdown  as a political stunt more than anything else. What has actually been  left without funding is the Coast Guard, TSA, and FEMA, the agencies  that keep us safe when disaster strikes. The agencies on the front  lines of American safety are now in limbo over a political standoff  that never should have happened.

Even more troubling is the fact that the agency tasked with keeping  Americans safe from terrorism is defunded when we face terrorist  threats from Iran.

Mr. Speaker, I say to my Democratic friends and colleagues: Stop the  games. End the shutdown.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, I ask for unanimous consent to include in the Record the  February 2026 PBS News article titled: ``Poll: Nearly two-thirds of  Americans say ICE has gone too far in immigration crackdown.''