Republicans Have Delivered in 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698431/republicans-have-delivered-in-2025


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague from Utah  for yielding and leading this important discussion on how Republicans  are focusing on making healthcare more affordable for hardworking  American families. We have taken action and are committed to doing more  to fix the broken system of ObamaCare that empowered Big Insurance at  the expense of our taxpayers.

As a family practice doctor for over 25 years, I hear directly from  my patients about the skyrocketing cost of insurance and prescription  drugs. Democrats promised Americans lower costs, more choices, and  better care. More than a decade later, too many families are asking a  simple question: What happened?

Former President Obama, in pushing the ACA, promised that the bill  would lower healthcare premiums by up to $2,500 per family per year,  but since ObamaCare went into effect, premiums have nearly tripled and  deductibles have more than doubled. The cost of coverage for a family  of four has increased by more than $10,000.

Back in July of this year, this Republican Congress passed the  Working Families Tax Cut Act. This important legislation puts more  money back into the pockets of Americans and will help lower the cost  of healthcare as well as childcare.

Thanks to the Working Families Tax Cut Act, all Bronze and  Catastrophic ACA Marketplace plans are now considered high-deductible  plans, allowing more people to contribute to health savings accounts.

Health savings accounts can now be used to pay for direct primary  care arrangements that cut out the middleman and allow patients to  coordinate care directly with their chosen provider.

High costs are not the only ObamaCare failure. It also resulted in a  major increase in fraud. A 2024 GAO investigation found that fake  identities were approved for ObamaCare subsidies at a 100 percent rate,  often remaining enrolled despite missing or falsified information.

In 2023, $21 billion in subsidies were paid out with no evidence of  tax reconciliation. Taxpayers were left footing the bill, as reused  Social Security numbers, subsidies paid on behalf of deceased  individuals, and billions in unreconciled payments expose a system  unable to protect public funds.

In the Working Families Tax Cut Act, Republicans restored  accountability and fairness to the healthcare marketplace through  reforms that save taxpayers billions of dollars and drive down costs  for everyone. There is full income and eligibility verification before  subsidies are issued, ensuring assistance goes only to those who  qualify. We have ended ``anytime'' enrollment abuse that fueled  fraudulent signups and drove premiums higher for everyone. We closed  loopholes that allowed illegal immigrants and other ineligible groups  to access taxpayer-funded health benefits.

Many Americans have insurance on paper but still cannot afford to use  it. I am committed, along with my Republican colleagues, to addressing  the root cause of rising costs to provide real relief for taxpayers and  families. I appreciate my congressional colleague from Utah for  yielding to me.