United States Research Protection Act


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support the passage  of my legislation, the United States Research Protection Act. H.R. 1318  is a critical piece of legislation that seeks to protect the future of  our Nation's scientific and technological advancement. The stakes could  not be higher in this era of rapid global innovation and increasingly  complex geopolitical dynamics.

I thank Chairman Babin for working with me to bring this important  bipartisan legislation to the floor quickly. I also thank my colleague  from Michigan, Congresswoman Stevens, for co-leading this bill with me.

I am proud that my very first bill to pass the House will protect  crucial research done here in the United States from adversarial  foreign actors seeking to exploit our research, talent, and resources  for their own gain.

Everyone in this Chamber knows the growing threat from the Chinese  Communist Party. This adversary has made no secret of its intentions to  surpass the United States in key technological areas, from artificial  intelligence to quantum computing to biotechnology.

In 2022, Congress passed the Research and Development, Competition,  and Innovation Act as part of the CHIPS and Science Act. That bill  prohibited researchers who receive Federal funds from participating in  malign foreign talent recruitment programs in which foreign countries  incentivize or compensate researchers for activities that present a  conflict of interest for the researcher or that are otherwise  unauthorized.

The Science, Space, and Technology Committee has been conducting  vigorous oversight of the implementation of the CHIPS Act and has found  that complicated and confusing language in the bill was impeding the  ability of American researchers and their institutions to protect  taxpayer-funded research.

This ambiguity could also allow for loopholes, allowing malign  foreign talent recruitment programs in our universities and other  research labs to recruit researchers or access sensitive data,  effectively funding breakthrough research for the Chinese Communist  Party with American taxpayers' dollars.

China's government has embarked on an aggressive strategy to acquire  critical American research and intellectual property. We have seen a  troubling pattern of intellectual property theft, economic espionage,  and illicit influence over academic institutions. These efforts are not  just limited to the economic realm. They are a matter of national  security.

The United States Research Protection Act updates and clarifies the  definition of malign foreign talent recruitment programs to protect our  national investments.

If we do not act now, we risk losing the technological edge that has  kept our country secure, prosperous, and at the forefront of global  innovation.

We have a responsibility to protect American research, safeguard our  intellectual property, and ensure that the innovations of today will  remain in the hands of those who work to benefit our Nation, not those  who seek to undermine it.

By passing this bipartisan bill, H.R. 1318, we are making a strong  commitment to future generations of Americans. We are telling them we  will not stand idly by as American innovations are put at risk. We are  telling the world that the United States will continue to lead in the  global technological race, and we will do so on our terms.

I thank Chairman Babin for his leadership on this issue. He is a  thoughtful and dedicated patriot who is making certain that our  grandchildren are better off as a result of our efforts today.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage all my colleagues to support this bill.