Utah Wildfire Research Institute Act of 2025


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill,  H.R. 1045, the Utah Wildfire Research Institute Act of 2025.

Utah is in a wildfire crisis. Our unique environment makes wildfires  a constant danger. It is common to drive down I-15, a major  thoroughfare in Utah, in the warm months and see fire on the side of  our beautiful mountains.

In 2004, Congress created three regional centers in Arizona,  Colorado, and New Mexico dedicated to strengthening forest health and  reducing wildfire risk. These centers, now collectively known as the  Southwest Ecological Restoration Institutes, or SWERI, serve as hubs  for research, data sharing, and on-the-ground collaboration. They bring  together the expertise of our universities with the experience of  State, local, and Federal land managers.

Since 2004, Utah has had over 23,000 wildfires and over 3 million  acres burned. These aren't mere statistics but represent impacted  livelihoods, damaged watersheds, strained emergency responders, and  long-term burdens on our economy, infrastructure, and public safety.

These fires have scarred our lands and endangered our growing  population. For us in Utah, the next major wildfire is not a question  of if but when and how devastating it will be.

That is why the Utah Wildfire Research Institute Act is essential. By  passing this bill, Congress has the opportunity to strengthen how we  understand, prevent, and respond to wildfire in the Mountain West.

As the only Four Corners State to not have a SWERI facility, it is  only right for Utah to have a dedicated hub focused on the wildfire  challenges facing Utah and the surrounding States.

It will allow our universities, firefighters, land managers, and  Federal partners to work together. It will help us understand fire  behavior in high-elevation deserts. It will support innovations in fuel  management, post-fire watershed recovery, and community resilience.  More importantly, the Utah wildfire institute will ensure that we are  not simply reacting to each crisis as it comes but planning ahead.

This bill reflects what Utahns already know, that collaboration,  science-based planning, and proactive management are the most effective  tools we have to protect our land and our people. It is a vote for  safer communities, healthier forests and rangelands, and responsible  stewardship of the places that we call home.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the Utah Wildfire  Research Institute Act as this investment will protect Utah for  generations to come.