What I Learned From Charlie Kirk


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695808/what-i-learned-from-charlie-kirk


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker, 9 days ago in my district, a loving  husband and father of two children, a public figure who debated  vigorously conservative values and a representative for free speech,  was assassinated by a deranged coward who felt that violence was the  only way to deal with voices that he opposed.

Mr. Speaker, from Charlie Kirk's example, I have learned that we  should live boldly, without fear. We should address and confront the  cowards of the world who will oppose with violence those who seek to  destroy free speech.

I have also learned from Charlie Kirk that we should debate  vigorously, that we have opinions, and in this Hall, this sacred Hall,  we can debate those opinions with respect and vigor.

Mr. Speaker, I have also learned that we should love completely.  Charlie Kirk never degraded an individual that he debated. He always  approached them with respect. With a loving approach, he tried to push  forward his views and offer them as an alternative to those who debated  him.

Mr. Speaker, I also point out that a widow and two amazing children  are now left without a husband and a father.

To Erika and those children, I will just say that God has a special  place in his heart for the widows of the world. Since ancient times,  such as the widow Zarephath with Elijah, the mite that the widow cast  into the temple treasury, as well as Jesus Christ' own mother, Mary, a  widow, whom Jesus on the cross, while He suffered and died for all  mankind, offered that widow, his mother, to His most beloved apostle to  take care of for the rest of her life and make sure that she was cared  for.

For Erika and her children, I will say that God has a special place  in his heart for the widows and for the orphans. They also have a  special place not only in my heart but in the hearts of millions as  they suffer through the loss of her husband as well as the father of  her children.

Mr. Speaker, I am inspired by Charlie Kirk and his example and the  fact that his life now transcends not only his life and his message,  but he stands for something more important now, which is freedom of  speech, a constitutional privilege that our Nation will fight  vigorously to protect.

I join with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to shun and  eschew violence and to pursue freedom of speech through the rest of my  days.

God bless America, Charlie Kirk, and his widow as we move forward.