Cloture Motion


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695678/cloture-motion


Mr. WELCH.  Res. 224; further, that the resolution be  agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motions to reconsider be  considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I thank the gentleman from Idaho, the chair  of our Foreign Relations Committee.

I join him. I join him enthusiastically in condemning the actions of  Hamas--the invasion on October 7 of Israel, the slaughter of 1,200  innocent people, the taking of hostages, and the infliction of  suffering that Hamas has inflicted on Palestinians within Gaza. But the  situation is much different today than it was a few months ago.

Four months ago, I stood here, and I asked for unanimous consent in  support of the Senate resolution on the humanitarian disaster in Gaza.  The resolution called for an end to the siege, an end to the war, and  the return of the hostages.

Since then, more than 400 people have died of starvation, including  more than 100 children, and that is ongoing and accelerating. Thousands  more have died under bombs and bullets at aid sites themselves.

At the time, I held up this picture of Jinan Iskafi. She died in her  parents' arms, the victim of a military blockade on infant formula.

Here joining Jinan are children suffering from famine conditions that  exist right now, this month--Amer, Maryam, and Shamm.

There is an ongoing famine in Gaza, and the Netanyahu government has  made a self-conscious decision to deny people the food and medicine  they need to survive. Women waiting for C-sections are trapped in the  middle of a bombing campaign. Children are forced to watch their  mothers die slowly of cancer, with no access to medicine. The hospitals  they need are being destroyed.

At the same time, the Netanyahu government has begun a new military  operation to take complete control of Gaza City. In Gaza City, hundreds  of civilians are living under nonstop bombardment. It is about  destroying buildings that are left standing, and it is a bombing  campaign that has as part of its objective to force them to leave.

The Netanyahu officials in his government acknowledge that they want  people to move out. They acknowledge that their campaign is in  significant part about displacing people who live in Gaza City and  forcing them to move elsewhere. That is at a time when those folks are  living in tents; the kids aren't going to school; where they have  already moved six or seven times.

The decision a family has to make is horrific: Do they move to  another place where there is no place to go and they have no guarantee  of any kind of safety, or is it better for them and their family to  stay where they are and risk that they will be in the path of the  bombing campaign?                                   ____

The definition of international terrorism in our law--title 18  section 2331--includes violent actions that are intended to intimidate  or coerce a civilian population. And what is coercion and intimidation  more than bombing where people live?

Mr. President, 46 Senators cosponsored this simple resolution months  ago, and it is about trying to bring about an end to this relentless  and needless suffering.

We must act. We must act so that an innocent son or daughter risking  starvation does not starve. We must act to save someone's mother or  father from a bomb dropped in Gaza into a place that is already  unlivable. And we have to act as a body to do everything we can to end  this war.

Now, the objection that my colleague made is about Hamas stealing  food, and there is no doubt Hamas is stealing food. They care nothing  about the Palestinians living under their oppression. But there is also  no doubt that the Israeli Government, self-consciously, has restricted  the aid that is necessary to get in, has interfered with organizations  that were delivering aid, and it is resulting in an extension of the  suffering.

Wars are terrible, not always avoidable. But after the horrors of  World War II, we had, as part of the international community, the  Geneva Conventions. It stated that collective punishment is a war  crime; militaries would not be any longer allowed to use food as a  weapon in order to press a battlefield advantage. And war may not be  avoidable, but those waging war have limits on what they can do in  waging even a just war.

So this is not just about Gaza. If we relinquish our commitment to  the Geneva Conventions, we reopen society's acceptance of ``anything  goes'' in causing the suffering of innocents to achieve some military  advantage. We do not want to go there.

My colleagues have also objected to the declarations of famine, even  though that is the declaration that experts--and I say ``experts.'' It  is people who have as their goal and life's work to try to feed people  who are desperately in need of nutrition.

In order to hold that the children are not suffering, we would have  to completely discount the consensus of every humanitarian expert and  agency in the world, the organizations that in many cases were founded  with the significant help of bipartisan efforts here in this U.S.  Congress. I am talking about the World Food Programme, about UNICEF,  about the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification, about Mercy  Corps, about Doctors Without Borders. All of these organizations have  documented the devastating starvation. So this is not a question of  whether there is starvation or there isn't.

And yes, there can be fault, as the chairman indicated, with Hamas  and the role they play, and I condemn that. But there is a significant  actor here, and that is the Netanyahu government. When they bar aid  trucks from going in, that leads to hunger, starvation, malnutrition,  and lack of medicine for people who desperately need it.

I do want to thank folks who are continuing their efforts to do  anything they can to help feed these starving kids in Gaza--the  Catholic Relief Services, Refugees International, Friends Committee,  Mercy Corps, Oxfam, Amnesty International, MedGlobal, Human Rights  Watch, Norwegian Refugee Council, HIAS, CARE, and the dozens of faith- based organizations--for being here and always being available to brief  Members of Congress but, more importantly, to get food to folks who  desperately need it.

This resolution is going to be rejected today with the objection  presented by the chairman, but from my perspective, we can't reject the  facts because the facts won't be rejected in history books. Kids and  innocent Palestinians are starving. We have seen enough to know that,  right now, Prime Minister Netanyahu is leading a policy of mass, forced  displacement. People are going from one place to another with whatever  it is they can carry on their backs or in their arms. When they go to  one place, they are displaced yet again, and there is active discussion  about having all of the Palestinians out of Gaza itself. They are being  pushed by starvation, by bombing, and by shelling. That, in addition to  the restriction on aid that has been imposed by the Netanyahu  government, is shocking.

We know that the Netanyahu government's rules of engagement--and, by  the way, using American bombs that are used in ways that have grossly  disproportionate civilian casualties--over 64,000 people in Gaza  already killed, many women and children. Nearly 20,000 children are  dead. Some experts define these actions as ethnic cleansing. Others  suggest it is genocide. And that includes, by the way, many Israeli  experts, former intelligence and military officials and organizations:  B'Tselem, Physicians for Human Rights--Israel, Combatants for Peace.  They have said that what they see is genocide.

There are many labels that could apply to what is happening in Gaza  today. Whatever label is used--a war crime or crimes against humanity  or ethnic cleansing or genocide--one thing is clear: This must end. It  is not about just giving a name or a label; it is about saving lives.  The United States has a unique role because of the close relationship  our country has had to Israel and the close relationship that our  President has to Prime Minister Netanyahu.

And what matters the most are the actions we all take to make this  suffering end. And that can end with a secure and democratic State of  Israel, but it also must acknowledge that what is occurring has to stop  because so many innocent people are victims of these bombs, of this  starvation, of this forced displacement.

The Senate today can demand an end. I hope my colleagues will join me  in passing this resolution.

Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I thank my colleague, the senior Senator  from New Hampshire. I really appreciate her very practical presentation  about a common concern that we have--Republicans and Democrats--and  that is that we do no harm when it comes to the profound insecurity  people are feeling about having access to healthcare for themselves,  for their partners, for their kids.

And we have got real differences in this Chamber. Little introductory  remarks about the One Big Beautiful Bill--I do think it is a terrible  bill. I do think that we have taken money from healthcare and other  areas to fund a tax cut for very wealthy people. I think it is bad for  the economy and creates a lot of insecurity.

We are also having a big battle about the funding of government,  which is the responsibility that we all have. And I want to be candid.  I take significant issue with the President when he says: Don't even  bother dealing with Democrats.

This always is a budget issue that has to involve Democrats and has  to involve Republicans. If we don't talk, we don't resolve differences  and we are not even in a position to do our job and find common ground.  So we are in a pickle. That creates some hard feelings as we try to  work through this. And I don't want to dwell on that because we do have  different points of view on that.

But we have a situation here, as the senior Senator from New  Hampshire described, where if these healthcare premium supports expire,  every American who has come to depend on access to healthcare through  ObamaCare, which is now accepted as an important element in our  healthcare system, every person on that is in incredible jeopardy.

And I know that every single Member of this Senate is very concerned  about access to healthcare for the people they represent. There is no  alternative for folks out there that is even being discussed if we  don't continue the premium support for people who are getting their  healthcare through the Affordable Care Act.

So I want to focus on this as the Senator did. I don't want to focus  on the partisan differences; I want to focus on the concrete reality  that a family is going to face if the Affordable Care credits expire.

No. 1, as Senator Shaheen said, this can't wait. The date is going to  arrive; the tax credits expire; people depending on that healthcare  won't have it. Twenty-four million Americans will face higher costs.

Again, I want to emphasize that is not 24 million Democratic  families; that is not 24 million Republican families; it is 24 million  families. It is in both our States. It is not political. It is about  healthcare, which every single citizen, we want them to have it and  have it be affordable.

Premiums are going to increase, on average, about 75 percent as the  Senator said. One in four people who have a chronic condition are going  to lose out on coverage; 3.3 million small businessowners will see  their premiums increase.

I just want to stop on that point for a moment because the Senator,  my colleague here, has done so much for small business, and that is  because she knows, as I do and I know as you do, Mr. President, small  businesses are so vital to the well-being of our community.

One of the things I have learned from my visits to small businesses  is really pretty inspiring because I see those Vermont small  businessowners; their employees are like family to them. The most  important thing for them is to make sure their employees are doing  well.

One of the things that is really important to our employers is that  they can provide healthcare, but with the premiums going up like this,  it is a wicked decision and discussion between the businessowner and  the employees about a raise versus picking up the high cost of a  premium increase. That is going to be aggravated if these tax credits  expire; 1.6 million of those folks in small businesses would lose  coverage.

Again, I want to make this concrete now. In Vermont, 27,000 people  who rely on the tax credits will lose their health insurance. They just  won't be able to afford it.

Let me give you a couple of examples of the real world here in  Vermont. The annual premium increase for a 60-year-old couple in  Vermont that earns $82,000 a year--and that is tough to get by if you  have a family on that amount of money--but the premium increase is  going to be $23,000. That is a fact. That is a 335-percent increase,  but that is like $2,000 a month.

So what that says to that family is you are on your own, no  healthcare.

In Nebraska, 112,000 folks rely on the Affordable Care monthly  premium tax credits. The annual premium increase for a Nebraska family,  a 60-year-old couple that is earning $82,000, $83,000 a year, $23,000-- pretty much the same as Vermont.

In California, there are 1.5 million folks relying on the ACA premium  tax credit. That 60-year-old couple making $82,000, it is going to be  an additional $17,000.

In Connecticut, 112,000 folks are going to lose access to healthcare  with these increases. That 60-year-old couple with $82,000 in income, a  $28,000 premium increase; 541 percent.

Mr. WELCH. I will.

Mr. WELCH. I am so glad that you brought that up because what drives  everyone crazy is the so-called cost shift. A lot of our community  hospitals, they get underreimbursed, oftentimes on Medicare or  Medicaid. And then the employer-sponsored premiums are the only place  the providers can go to cover their legitimate costs.

So there is a huge spike in the cost. If you have all these folks  without healthcare and they are showing up and getting free care, then  somebody has got to pay, and that is going to be the employer-sponsored  and private pay.

The Senator from New Hampshire was right in pointing out we have got  this broken system that we are making worse with this effort. So thank  you so much for that, the Senator from New Hampshire.

I wanted to go back to these numbers too. In Alaska, 23,000 folks,  they can  lose their healthcare or they are going to have a premium increase.  That family with $82,800 in income, it is $44,000. So that is a 554- percent increase.

In Wyoming, 40,000 folks rely on the ACA tax credits. That 60-year- old couple with an $82,000 income, their premium is going up $37,000.  That is $3,000 a month.

In West Virginia, 49,000 folks losing. That 60-year-old couple,  $82,000 income, $39,000 premium increase; $3,000 a month.

What we know is that can't happen. It cannot happen. You are  literally, through passivity in this U.S. Senate, where we have the  option to act or we have the option to hide, the second option is  sending a direct premium increase to our families, up to $40,000 in a  year for people who make $80,000. So this happens, this is on us. If  this happens, it is on us.

Mr. WELCH. I will yield to the Senator.

Mr. WELCH. Well, if you are a billionaire, it works out. The fact is,  it can't be explained. It hasn't happened yet. This is about to go into  effect if we don't act as the Senate.

Mr. WELCH. Yes.

Mr. WELCH. It is the actual imposition of the premium increase. The  only way we can spare this heartache--literally, taking away people's  healthcare--is by extending the premium tax credits. So that is a  decision this body has to make.

Mr. WELCH. I did.

Mr. WELCH. Let me get that number for you but go ahead.

Mr. WELCH. Right.

Mr. WELCH. That is right.

Mr. WELCH. That is right; $37,000 a year, and there are 40,000 as you  mentioned.

This is really about the Affordable Care tax credits that expire.  This was not in the Big Beautiful Bill. The Big Beautiful Bill took a  trillion dollars away from the Medicaid Program, but now we have  pending before us the imminent cliff where the premium increases that  were passed by this body on a bipartisan basis to help during COVID,  those expire.

When that expires, those families in Wyoming are going--who are on  the Affordable Care Act and who are 60 years old and they have $82,000  in income, they are going to see a premium increase of $37,193.

Mr. WELCH. That is a loaded gun. It is the heart of the family and  their ability to carry on. This just can't happen. It can't happen. We  are the body that has the option of ignoring the hardship and the  catastrophic consequences of this on the families we represent or  sparing them and allowing them to continue having access to healthcare  they depend on.

Mr. WELCH. That is exactly right. That is exactly right. That is  within the power. This is the wonderful thing of those of us that have  this job. We have the power to do something that can help the people we  represent. They need healthcare. Republican families need it.  Democratic families need it. People who don't care anything about the  political process, they need it. And in this country, they should be  entitled to it.

We can act. It is not a partisan thing. It is not a victory for one  side or the other. It is really a lifesaver for these families--the  Wyoming families, the Vermont families, the Illinois families. So I  urge this body to come together to do something that the people we  represent--every single one of them--need and would benefit by.

Mr. WELCH. Right.

Mr. WELCH. Well, you know, you are exactly right because that family  making $82,000 a year, they are struggling to pay the premium as it is.  If they have to pay $3,000 more a month, most of those families are  going to say they would like to but can't because they are uninsured.

I will give a story of my own. My first wife died of cancer, Senator.  She had cancer for 9 years. We had terrific healthcare. She had a rare  form of cancer.

One night, my car broke down, and the wrecker guy picked me up. We  had a long ride. We got to talking. It turned out that his wife--and he  had two kids, younger kids--had the same form of rare cancer and his  wife died and we talked about that.

But there was a difference. We had insurance through the University  of Vermont where my wife was a professor. He had no insurance. He was  working late nights, long hours, raising these two kids by himself, and  he was trying to pay off a $335,000 medical bill. That is not right.

But that example you just mentioned or this Wyoming family or Vermont  family or Illinois family, they are faced with $3,000 a month. They  don't have the money; they go without healthcare. Somebody gets sick.  It is a serious illness. They get medical debt.

(Mr. JUSTICE assumed the Chair.)

They get anxiety--anxiety on top of the anxiety that always  accompanies a serious illness in a family, where all of your attention,  if it is your partner, if it is your child, is about your partner, your  child.

On top of that, you have the incredible stress of bill collectors  calling up: Where's the money? We don't have to allow this to happen.  We don't, and we shouldn't.

And I just want to emphasize, it is not a Republican, Democratic  deal; it is a mutual responsibility that this U.S. Senator has to the  people of this country in your State and in my State.

So I urge us to get a solution. And I talked about West Virginia, the  Presiding Officer's great State, where folks will face enormously high  premium increases if these Affordable Care Act subsidies are expired.  It will be brutal. I told the Presiding Officer about my visit to West  Virginia, my respect for the coal miners, those hard-  working folks there. And I know how highly important it is to the  Presiding Officer about healthcare access. So let's act as a body.  Let's do it together and make certain that folks do have healthcare,  just don't have the anxiety and uncertainty and the bills that are just  going to cripple them. I want to thank the Senator from Illinois. I  want to thank my colleagues in the Senate.