Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700023/disapproving-the-action-of-the-district-of-columbia-council-in-approving-the-dc-income-and-franchise-tax-conformity-and-revision-temporary-amendment-act-of-2025


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, we are 1 year into President Donald Trump's  second term and 1 year into Secretary Kristi Noem's tenure as head of  the Department of Homeland Security, which includes Immigration and  Customs Enforcement, or ICE. It is time for us to assess and state with  clarity what that 1 year has brought us.

First of all, the deportation policy is not now about border  security--not now. The border is secure, and that is a good thing.  Migrant crossings into the United States from Mexico are at their  lowest level since 1970.

In August of 2024, during President Biden's administration, there  were 107,000 encounters at the southern border, but in August of 2025,  there were only 9,000. The border is much more secure. I support that.  We must maintain it, and we will.

So is the deportation policy now about deporting criminals--something  we support? There is evidence, and the evidence of what the policy is  about comes from a Department of Homeland Security report itself. What  it says is that 14 percent--only 14 percent--of the people who have  been deported are dangerous criminals.

And the Trump administration is as good as its word. From day one,  with Stephen Miller, it has announced its intention to conduct mass  deportation in the United States. It set quotas. It has moved away from  focusing on people with serious criminal convictions, and instead, it  is focused on getting the highest number of arrests and deportations as  possible, up to 3,000 a day.

Homeland Security got $75 billion from Congress--not from votes on  our side. But it was really what allowed for this mass roundup of  people from workplaces, from farms, from schools--all in service of a  political agenda that is not about protecting Americans but is serving  the political interests of the President and the fiendish design of  Stephen Miller, with the implementation of a reckless Kristi Noem.

So if only 14 percent of those people deported are dangerous  criminals, what are the others? It is about detaining and attempting to  deport students who are here legally but said things that the President  and the administration didn't like on a campus, folks who spoke out  about the war in Gaza: Mohsen Mahdawi from Vermont, Mahmoud Khalil from  Columbia in New York City.

It is about deporting a student who wrote an article in a student  newspaper criticizing the Israeli Government. It is about ripping a  preschooler--preschooler--1,300 miles away from his home to sit in a  detention facility, and it is about using him as bait to get to his  family. That is happening.

It is about detaining a U.S. citizen at gunpoint, on that person's  front porch, without any warrant to go there and then forcing him to go  outside in subfreezing weather wearing nothing but his underwear.

It is about detaining a churchgoer delivering groceries to his  neighbors in freezing temperatures, and it is about denying him the  necessary medication he needed after he had a kidney transplant, while  he was in custody.

It is about a legal permanent resident, Donna Hughes-Brown. She was  locked up for 143 days, threatened with deportation, because she did do  something wrong: She bounced two checks that totaled 75 bucks over 10  years ago.

It is about Steven Tendo from Vermont, an asylum seeker and a pastor.  He was arrested and detained outside the medical center in Shelburne  where he works, and he said it was done brutally and it was done at  gunpoint. This is not a threatening man. He is currently now being  denied medication for his diabetes.

ICE is in such a rush to meet its quotas set by Secretary Noem and  Mr. Miller that they are literally grabbing anyone and everyone they  set their eyes on. What is their accent? What is their color? Where are  they located? And ICE does not care who gets hurt in the process.

Wilmer Chavarria is a U.S. citizen, and he is the superintendent in  the Winooski School District in Vermont. He was detained and questioned  for hours by agents in Texas. His technology was seized and searched.  He described this as ``the definition of psychological terror.''

A 21-year-old man protesting in California was blinded in his left  eye. He told the AP after this he was ``just glad'' to be ``alive to  tell my story.''

A pastor in Chicago, a reverend, was praying out loud at a protest,  and an agent shot multiple rounds of pepper balls in his face, and he  was sprayed by more pepper spray. It was indiscriminate and really  vicious.

So far in 2026, ICE agents have shot eight people. These shootings  happened in Minnesota and across the United States: Arizona,  California, Oregon, Maryland, and Illinois. Officers fired on at least  nine people who were in their cars, much like the horrible case of  Renee Good. Ms. Good, as America all knows, was a 37-year-old mother,  and Alex Pretti was a 37-year-old VA nurse. They were killed in  Minnesota. We all saw it. No justification whatsoever.

We have seen massive ICE deployments in Minnesota and elsewhere:  Washington, DC; Illinois; California. These ICE expeditions, with  massive numbers of people coming in, are interfering with local law  enforcement and creating real terror in the communities.

ICE has raided schools and farms and workplaces, including in my  State of Vermont, that sow fear and chaos on farms like the Pleasant  Valley Farm in Berkshire and construction sites in Hardwick, VT.

DHS is also rounding up so many people, they literally don't have  places to put them. For the first time in our history, more than 70,000  people are in ICE detention. That is an increase of 75 percent from the  previous year. Not surprisingly, the conditions are deplorable. There  was no preplanning of how to accommodate the people that the government  was taking into custody. Detainees are fed food laced with worms. These  are all documented facts. It is not a political argument. This is what  is happening. Many places have toilets that don't flush.

In a detention center in El Paso, a man named Geraldo Lunas Campos  was choked by an officer, and he died. A teen was beat up by officers  and now has hearing loss. Just this week, NBC reported that an 18- month-old baby who was detained in south Texas was rushed to a hospital  and treated for pneumonia, COVID-19, and RSV in serious and severe  respiratory distress. She was described as being at the brink of dying.

Thirty-five people died in custody last year, and at least 6 died in  detention centers in January of this year alone.

ICE is in such a hurry that many of the officers don't get adequate  training. Their identities are concealed. Most disturbingly, ICE and  Kristi Noem accept no responsibility for the actions of their officers.

We are discussing reforms now in Congress, and the basic reforms that  should be made are that any Federal Agency, including ICE, should have  to abide by the standards that apply in Alabama or in Vermont to our  local law enforcement agencies, where there is training, where there is  accountability, where there are body cameras, where there are  mechanisms in place for training, supervision, and accountability.

But the real question, in my view, is this: Do we want to support a  policy of mass roundups? That is the policy of the administration right  now. When it comes to the question of border security, yes. When it  comes to the question of deporting criminals, yes. But mass roundups  with untrained people that are meeting quotas and where we have seen  the violent overreactions in many cases; where we are seeing suffering  inflicted on people who are in detention because there is no capacity  to provide humane treatment to the people taken into custody by the  government; where we have seen the havoc in communities where there are  raids on our farms that need the migrant  labor and there are raids in our construction sites; where, when there  is an influx of thousands of agents from ICE, it totally disrupts local  law enforcement; and where so many of these people who are being  rounded up are not a threat to our safety--are not a threat to our  safety--what is the benefit to the American people? What is the price  that our communities are paying? And what is our responsibility as a  U.S. Senate to open our eyes and candidly assess what is the impact of  a mass deportation policy?

My view is that we have an opportunity to move beyond what has been  incredibly partisan rhetoric about the immigration issue. The reason we  have the opportunity is because there is now bipartisan agreement about  a secure border. There is now bipartisan agreement about deporting  criminals.

Isn't it time for us to have the discussion about legal ways to have  an immigration policy that is safe and secure and benefits the American  people, as immigration has benefited us from the onset of our history?