Ecuador


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702061/ecuador


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, on March 6 of this year, the Pentagon  released a video of what it claimed was the destruction of a drug  traffickers' training camp near the village of San Martin in the jungle  of rural Ecuador. As reported by the New York Times, ``The video was  meant to show that the U.S. military, which for months had bombed boats  it says are carrying drugs from South America, was `now bombing Narco  Terrorists on land,' '' according to a post by Defense Secretary  Hegseth.

A thorough, credible investigation of this operation has yet to be  carried out. However, based on detailed inquiries by American  journalists and Ecuadorian human rights organizations who visited the  site and collected testimonies and audiovisual evidence, the official  narrative turns out to bear little, if any, resemblance to the facts as  they are currently known.

Rather than a drug training camp, the Ecuadorian military, relying on  U.S. military intelligence, appears to have bombed a cattle and dairy  farm, targeting impoverished workers and terrorizing neighboring  villagers.

According to workers at the farm, Ecuadorian soldiers arrived by  helicopter on March 3. After reportedly arresting the workers at  gunpoint, interrogating and subjecting them to beatings, suffocation,  electric shocks, threats of mutilation, water immersion, and mock  executions at an undisclosed military facility before releasing them,  they returned to the site, poured gasoline on several structures, and  burned them to the ground. Villagers said helicopters returned 3 days  later, apparently dropping explosives on what remained of the farm,  which the soldiers recorded on the video that the Pentagon released.

In addition to releasing the video, the Pentagon claimed credit for  carrying out ``target action'' against the supposed traffickers at the  request of the Ecuadorian authorities, although no U.S. troops were  directly involved in the operation. Ecuadorian officials said the  operation relied on U.S. ``intelligence and support'' to identify the  farm, which they claimed was a camp for as many as 50 members of  irregular armed groups.

According to the owner of the farm, he bought it 6 years ago and had  a herd of more than 50 cows used for milk and meat. He said the  destroyed structures were two wooden shelters, sheds for equipment, a  chicken coop, and a place to make cheese. He said, ``It's a lie that 50  people trained here. Where are they going to train? Out in the open?  There's no logic.'' He went on, ``Everywhere you look there are  animals: the cows I milk, the calves, the horses.''

According to an Ecuadorian human rights lawyer, ``There isn't a  single public official who has come to verify what happened.''

This violent operation occurred in a remote, dangerous area along the  border between Ecuador and Colombia where armed groups are engaged in  illicit mining and cocaine trafficking. But the version of events  recounted by the villagers and the farm workers is totally at odds with  the version promoted by the Ecuadorian military and the U.S. Department  of Defense. It has been more than a month and half since the incident,  and the Ecuadorian Government has yet to present any credible evidence  to dispute the farm workers' harrowing account. Instead, they have  continued to repeat their assertions and vilify the work of human  rights organizations. The farm workers and the villagers have also  reported acts of harassment and intimidation by the Ecuadorian military  against them since the New York Times story came out. This is the same  military that is accused of committing at least 43 cases of enforced  disappearances in 2024, according to Amnesty International.

There is no evidence that, prior to issuing a press release  characterizing the attack as a counter ``narco-terrorist'' operation,  anyone at the Pentagon had visited the site or spoken with any of the  Ecuadorian inhabitants. Perhaps the Ecuadorian Government is reluctant  to conduct a credible, thorough investigation, fearing the possibility  of having to refute the version of its own soldiers and the U.S.  Secretary of Defense. But its responsibility is first and foremost to  its own citizens, to the truth, and to the law. If the facts described  by the owner of the farm are borne out, the operation violated multiple  laws, including arbitrary detention, denial of due process, torture,  and the destruction of property. And if this was, in fact, an attack  based on faulty intelligence that never should have happened, the owner  of the farm and the workers who were abused must be compensated and  those responsible brought to justice.