Honduras


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696472/honduras


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, on September 3, 2025, I spoke about the  upcoming November 30 general elections in Honduras for President,  Members of Congress, and Members of the Central American Parliament.  Significant fraud has been a problem in many of Honduras' past  elections, most notably prior to, and during, the 2013 and 2017  elections of former President Juan Orlando Hernando who today sits in a  U.S. prison. So it is important that this election, like the election  of Hernandez' successor in 2021, is widely accepted as free, fair, and  transparent and that the results are honored in and outside of  Honduras.

At that time, I expressed concern about a report that on July 16,  Counselor Ana Paola Hall had resigned from the National Electoral  Council due to political pressure and threats against her and her  family. I also expressed concern that the government of President  Castro had reportedly failed to  implement the system for transmitting election results, which is  designed to ensure transparent and timely reporting.

Since then, I have been informed that Ms. Paola did not resign and  that Honduras's electoral authority--the National Electoral Council or  CNE--is now implementing an updated system for transmitting election  results. This is positive news, and it should reinforce public  confidence in the CNE's commitment to the integrity of the elections.  It is my understanding that this new electoral transmission system is  considered to be more effective and secure than the systems in place  during previous elections, and it should help counter efforts--already  reportedly underway--to undermine the fairness of the electoral process  through legal and judicial maneuvers or to manufacture an excuse by  some to challenge the results of the election if their candidate loses.

On September 3, I also spoke about President Castro's failure to  achieve her pledge to establish an international commission to combat  corruption and impunity, and the lack of progress in bringing to  justice those responsible for the murder of environmentalist Juan Lopez  and others who have lost their lives defending the land and water that  indigenous communities depend on. There is no doubt that part of the  responsibility for the failure to establish the commission falls on the  Honduran Congress, which is dominated by the National Party of former  President Hernandez, whose government functioned as a criminal  enterprise. But President Castro insisted this was a priority,  including during her campaign, and it is disappointing that she and her  government did not do more to build public support to overcome  opposition in the Congress. Honduras' justice system has so far been  largely incapable of bringing to justice those responsible for  significant crimes of corruption and for ordering the killings of  environmental defenders, other social activists, and journalists-- including indigenous environmental leader Berta Caceres and members of  cooperatives in the Aguan Valley, where land rights defenders continue  to be targeted with violence. It is critically important that Honduras'  next President reaffirms the government's commitment to such a  commission and strives to make it a reality.

It is in the interest of the United States that on November 30th the  people of Honduras can freely cast their votes in a fair election for  the candidates of their choice. It is not the role of the United States  to pick winners and losers. I hope the elections usher in a new  government of leaders who are committed to strengthening the  institutions of democracy, upholding the rule of law, and improving the  lives and protecting the rights of the Honduran people.