Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697111/low-income-home-energy-assistance-program


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I am here to speak about the urgent need  for the Trump administration to release $4 billion in LIHEAP funding.  LIHEAP, as you know, is the low-income plan. It is absolutely critical  that that money be distributed to the States so the States can  distribute it to the citizens who need it. We are in the cold weather  season and getting money out after the cold weather season does not  help keep people warm.

LIHEAP funding enjoys broad support, and that is because, in the  Presiding Officer's State and in mine, folks in the winter who are on  the margins financially, literally, can't get by unless they have  access to this funding.

So here we are, the heating season is upon us, and the LIHEAP funding  is stuck and not being distributed.

This is an absolute responsibility of the Trump administration, and  there is no--no--excuse for withholding the funding. It just means that  people who are cold are going to be cold and terrified, and they have  no confidence about their ability to stay warm.

It is getting cold in Vermont. You know, most families who use LIHEAP  funding, they make about 150 percent of the poverty level, that is  about $23,000 a year. You know, the cost of home heating fuel is  between 3 and 4 bucks a gallon, right now. That help is essential.

In Vermont, around 26,000 people rely on LIHEAP to afford heat. And  by the way, for folks in the warm weather  parts of our country, it helps on air-conditioning, which is vital. And  as the Presiding Officer knows, the number of people who are dying of  heat exposure has been increasing, alarmingly. So this is the call to  the Trump administration: Do your job.

Now, Secretary Kennedy has a legal responsibility to disburse the  current LIHEAP funding, and it is illegal for him to withhold those  funds as well as really pretty cruel.

The reality is that this summer we in Congress came together, on a  bipartisan basis, to increase and to pass the $4 billion in funding for  the program. And, again, I emphasize, it is not a red State, blue State  deal. It is not a Republican, Democratic deal. It is a person who is in  a home, doesn't have money, and is cold. That is what it is about.

So I am calling on President Trump and Secretary Kennedy to stop  stalling and to act with alacrity and release the LIHEAP funding for  the benefit of the people in the State of Vermont and in every State in  this country who depend on it.