Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


Mr. WELCH. Madam President, I do not want the United States of  America to be involved in yet another regime-change war in Iran. Have  we not learned anything from what happened in Iraq? We deposed Saddam  Hussein, and all hell broke loose. That was a war of regime change--no  sense since it wasn't related to 9/11.

We had a regime-change war in Afghanistan and then went on to embrace  nation building. Thousands of American men and women who answered the  call of the President reported for duty, lost their lives, lost their  limbs, or are suffering today with PTSD. Trillions of taxpayer dollars  have been spent and wasted. Yet, in the Middle East, the flashpoint now  is Iran, and we came within an eyelash of getting dragged into yet  another war where the goal was regime change.

I want to acknowledge the professionalism of our Air Force and our  men and women in the military. The strike they were ordered to perform  they executed flawlessly. To them, I extend my congratulations.

But the question for us is, Who authorizes the use of force? Our men  and women will do what it is the Commander in Chief requires and do  what it is Congress authorizes. We all have confidence in that. But  this was a wake-up call for us because we came within an eyelash of  being in a conflict where the goal would have been the Netanyahu goal  of regime change.

What we did in this action, with the President's decision to send our  bombers in at the request of Netanyahu, was to essentially put in the  hands of the Iranian Government the question of how far this war would  go. Would they turn the other cheek, which is essentially what they  did, or would they retaliate in a way, as President Trump said, that he  would rain hellfire on them and have us in a war?

The point here of the Kaine resolution is that if this country is  going to make that decision, it must be Congress that authorizes that  decision. It must be Congress that has the debate about what are the  national security concerns, what are the costs, and what are the  benefits. We can't simply bypass that and continue to abdicate our  responsibility and congressional authority and duty, and that is why  this resolution is so important.

Now this question of, how did we get here? You know, a war oftentimes  happens not by design; you stumble into it. That is what almost  happened here. We do not want a nuclear Iran. There is nobody in this  U.S. Senate who wants a nuclear Iran. Russia doesn't want a nuclear  Iran. China doesn't want a nuclear Iran. Our Presidents--bipartisan-- have worked hard to make certain that Iran didn't have it.

The Obama agreement was working. After President Trump was not  President Trump, he challenged the agreement. When he got elected, he  tore it up. But he saw at some point the wisdom of diplomacy, and he  was engaged in active negotiations about a nonnuclear Iran and was  making progress on those.

That was objected to by Prime Minister Netanyahu. He was against the  JCPOA that Obama was negotiating and actually, as a foreign leader,  came to this U.S. Congress and gave a speech in conflict with the  Commander in Chief of the United States wherein he lobbied in this  Capitol against entering into an agreement that ultimately made us more  secure.

That determination on his part continues, and the biggest act of  sabotage to the Trump negotiations as to a nuclear agreement was the  bombing campaign that Netanyahu did that sabotaged those talks.

Again, I say congratulations to our men and women in uniform who,  when they were ordered by the President to do the strike on the nuclear  facilities, did it and did it well, but we should not at all discount  how precarious that situation was for our country. It was the result of  a decision by Iran to turn the other cheek, to disregard the attacks  and basically not escalate. I am so glad they did, and the President  showed temperance there himself. But we can't be putting ourselves in a  position where our future and whether we do get in a war is based on  the actions of other people--particularly folks who run Iran.

So if we are going to protect the national security, if we are going  to protect the men and women of this country who will always respond to  the call of the Commander in Chief--that is what makes them such  wonderful patriots. They cede the authority to make the decision about  whether they will be put in harm's way to the men and women who serve  in the Congress of the United States and the Commander in Chief. That  is a profound responsibility that each of us has to debate the question  of whether we should commit this country to war.

So this resolution is absolutely vital--vital--to the well-being of  this country and to the humility that is required of a country before  it makes the ultimate decision to ask the men and women who are  citizens of our country to potentially sacrifice their lives for the  well-being of this country.

I urge my colleagues to support the Kaine resolution.