Palestine


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697313/palestine


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, for those of us who have long supported  U.S. diplomatic leadership in pursuit of a secure, democratic Israel  alongside a demilitarized, independent Palestinian state, the  protection of due process and the rule of law has central importance.  Equal access to justice is essential for lasting peace in the Middle  East. Today, I voice a concern shared by many of my colleagues: the  incarceration, prosecution, and punishment of Palestinian children in  the Israeli military justice system.

As a former public defender and member of the Judiciary Committee's  Subcommittee on the Constitution, which has jurisdiction over human  rights, I have a perspective on the way justice systems should treat  children. To put it categorically, civilians, and especially children,  should not be prosecuted in military courts. It is analogous to how I  feel about child soldiers; children should not be recruited or allowed  to serve in the armed forces.

The reasons should be obvious. Civilians are, by definition,  noncombatants. Military justice systems lack independence and routinely  fall short in providing the fundamental protections of due process and  a fair trial that exist in the civilian justice system and which are  rooted in international law.

Israel, however, automatically and systematically prosecutes  Palestinian civilians in the West Bank in Israeli military courts under  Israeli military law. These courts lack impartiality and transparency,  as military court judges and military court prosecutors are active or  reserve duty officers in the Israeli military and subject to the chain  of command.

To make the process even less credible, in the West Bank Israeli  military law only applies to the Palestinian population, while Israeli  citizens have the benefit of the protections of Israeli civil law and  courts. This double standard is glaringly inconsistent with the  principle of equal justice that is foundational to a democracy.

According to numerous credible reports, Palestinian children are  frequently arrested in their homes by heavily armed Israeli soldiers.  They are bound, blindfolded, and often beaten in military vehicles  during transport before arriving at an Israeli police station for  interrogation, which is often located in an Israeli settlement. They  are routinely interrogated alone without the presence of a family  member or attorney and often threatened with physical violence if they  don't confess.

Nearly half of the approximately 350 Palestinian children currently  detained by Israel are in administrative detention. Most have not been  formally charged or brought to trial. When they are charged in military  courts, they are overwhelmingly accused of throwing rocks. Rarely are  they accused of causing injury or significant property damage.  Generally, there is no evidence-gathering process by Israeli  authorities for children who are charged in the military courts, so the  crux of the case is the child's confession or a signature on a document  in Hebrew they don't understand. There can also be an affidavit from an  arresting soldier or intelligence officer or an incriminating statement  made against the child by another child who was also arrested and  accused in connection with the same alleged incident.

Only a small percentage of Palestinian children in the military  courts are released on bail. Custodial pre-trial--and often pre- charge--detention is the norm. Almost all prosecutions of children in  military courts are resolved with plea agreements, which are the  fastest way for a Palestinian child to be released from detention.  Entering a not guilty plea is rare, and contesting a charge in the  military courts means legal proceedings can be long and drawn out. To  put it bluntly, punishment, not justice, is the goal of the military  courts. The system is stacked unfairly against the child defendant,  whose family is not even allowed to be present during court hearings,  so irrespective of the facts or the reliability of the confession,  pleading guilty in return for the shortest time in jail--which can  still mean weeks or months or even years--is the norm.

I think of Mohammed Ibrahim, a Palestinian American who was detained  for nearly 10 months after being arrested at the age of 15 in his home  at 3 in the morning by heavily armed Israeli soldiers. He described  being bound and beaten while being transported and threatened while  being interrogated without the presence of a family member or an  attorney. U.S. Embassy officials who visited him most recently in  November described obvious deterioration in his mental and physical  condition.

Mohammed's case fits the pattern, except that he is an American  citizen. Putting aside that his confession may have been coerced, even  if everything he was accused of--throwing stones that caused no harm-- were true, it is unconscionable that he was abused and detained for  months. He was deprived of adequate food and reportedly lost a third of  his body weight. Senator Van Hollen, I, and other Members of Congress  repeatedly raised concerns about him, and thankfully, on Thanksgiving  Day, he was released. It is now the Israeli Government's obligation to  hold accountable the soldiers who beat him and the jailers who  mistreated him.

Israeli authorities have defended this inherently flawed and  discriminatory system as a necessary response to an ongoing state of  hostilities. There are at least three problems with that argument:

First, these are children. Children do not belong in military  detention or military courts, and the fact that they are caught in the  middle of a decades-long conflict doesn't change that. A child does not  become an armed combatant deserving of prosecution and punishment in  the military justice system because of throwing a stone that causes no  injury. Yet that is the reality for Palestinian children in the West  Bank.

Second, administrative detention, compounded by physical and  psychological abuse and humiliation of Palestinian detainees and the  lack of due process that is endemic in the military justice system,  have long-lasting impacts on a child. They have difficulty re-entering  and continuing school, face increased restriction on freedom of  movement, disruptions to family life, behavior and mental health  issues, and it fuels resentment and hatred.

And third, Israeli settlers routinely and increasingly engage in  provocations, threats, and violence--sometime deadly violence--against  Palestinians with impunity. These attacks and gratuitous destruction  and theft of Palestinian property are often observed and tolerated by  IDF soldiers. This too fuels hatred and more violence.

Absent a legitimate claim of self-defense, violence is wrong no  matter who engages in it. But the incarceration, prosecution, and  punishment of Palestinian children by Israeli military prosecutors and  judges should stop. It is a flagrant violation of international law. It  perpetuates an indefensible double standard of tiers of justice based  on ethnicity, religion, and nationality. And by fomenting hatred, it  makes Israel less secure.

Finally, it should stop because it reflects badly on the United  States. The Israel Defense Forces are a major recipient of U.S. aid,  and the United States should not explicitly or implicitly condone a  flawed system of justice that systematically abuses and violates the  rights of Palestinian children.