Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698606/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-air-plan-approval-south-dakota


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleague from Colorado,  and I want to thank my colleague from Virginia for their leadership on  what is the very important question before the U.S. Senate.

In the weeks and months leading up to the capture of Nicolas Maduro,  President Trump sent 15,000 U.S. military personnel to the Caribbean  and Venezuela, that included Special Forces, Marines, and specialized  units from all of our branches of government. He sent 13 warships to  the Caribbean, including the USS Gerald R. Ford Carrier Strike Group,  and several amphibious assault ships. More than 100 advanced combat  aircraft were deployed, including F-35s from the Vermont National  Guard. And we can estimate that thousands of military and intelligence  personnel were involved in planning and executing the raid that seized  Maduro.

A mobilization of this size costs hundreds of millions of dollars, if  not billions. This operation is, and apparently always has been, about  one thing: seizing control of Venezuela's oil. President Trump and his  closest advisers have made that clear. It is about President Trump  using the power that he has as President, without restraint, to get the  oil that he wants.

This is not my assertion. These are President Trump's words:

We built Venezuela's oil industry with American talent,       drive and skill, and the socialist regime stole it from us .       . .

It was the greatest theft in the history of America. They       took . . . away from us.

We're going to have our very large United States oil       companies, the biggest anywhere in the world, go in, spend       billions of dollars, fix the badly broken infrastructure, the       oil infrastructure and start making money for the country.       We will be selling large amounts of oil to other       countries.

I think it is a fair question. If that is the President's goal, what  is in it for farmers in Vermont? Small business owners in Ohio? For the  elementary school teacher in Texas? For a truck mechanic in South  Dakota? There is absolutely nothing in it for everyday Americans. And  we spent hundreds of millions of dollars on a mission that can only  benefit the oil industry who didn't even ask that this be done in the  first place.

So what about this operation is ``America First''? It might be  ``Trump First'' or it might be ``Chevron First,'' but it is not  ``America First.'' And we just saw the revelation that a major donor to  President Trump bought at bargain basement prices a Chevron subsidiary  and can stand to make literally billions of dollars. Should our foreign  policy be about pure profits, as opposed to pure benefit for the  American people? About profits that go to big corporations and to the  President's friends? That is what is going on here.

There is no limit. Within hours of Maduro's capture, President Trump  was threatening Greenland; they have minerals. Colombia, they have  resources as well. Cuba and Mexico. Is this the world that will work  for us or the world that we want where rather than acting as a  defender--actually the leader--in maintaining long-established  principles of national sovereignty, we threaten and invade countries to  seize their natural resources? That is the way it was before 1945:  ``Might makes right.'' That is a dangerous world. And is that the world  that the United States wants to leave to future generations?

There are two questions before the Senate. One is a policy debate,  the wisdom of this attack on Venezuela. There is no dispute about the  evil of Maduro. None. There is enormous respect and appreciation for  the professionalism, the bravery of our military that did something  that, frankly, seems impossible. But in service of what? This is an  extraordinary military victory, but it is in service of a neocon dream.  We saw this in Libya. We saw this in Iraq. We saw this in Afghanistan.

President Trump is now saying we are going to ``run the country.''  And President Trump is heralding that Maduro is in jail in Manhattan.  We all are. But left behind in Venezuela is every structure that Maduro  put in place. His hand-picked Vice President is now the leader. His  repressive, brutal, murderous Interior Minister is still in charge. So,  yes, Maduro is gone, but everything he built remains behind. What kind  of victory is that?

The second question--and I thank Senator Kaine for being the leader  on this--is one that every person who serves in the U.S. Senate has to  answer: Will we do our job? This is not optional. Article I of the U.S.  Constitution says it is up to Congress to authorize the use of military  force in going to war. It is our job, and it is our responsibility. And  one of the enormous threats to our democracy right now is the  capitulation of too many Members of the House and too many Members of  the Senate of powers that are vested in this body, under the  Constitution, in ceding those authorities to the Chief Executive.

Why is that wrong? It is wrong because there is wisdom in the  Constitution's separation of powers that power cannot be concentrated  in one branch of government. And it is as a result of one branch of  government ceding its authority and its responsibility to the  Executive. We have an obligation to protect our constitutional role,  and it is not about us. It is about our country. And what is a greater  responsibility than the decision to send men and women into combat?  That is our job.

And, Senator Kaine, thank you so much for all of your efforts to  remind us of our responsibility and to tell us to do our job.