Recognizing Henry's Diner


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694323/recognizing-henrys-diner


Mr. WELCH. Madam President, I rise today to celebrate the 100th  anniversary of an iconic Vermont institution, Henry's Diner. Henry's  Diner has provided delicious food, welcoming ambience, and classic  consistency to the Burlington, VT, community since 1925.

Henry's Diner was founded in 1925 by Henry Couture, a beloved  Burlingtonian and entrepreneur. At the time, diners were perceived as  lower-class, and women hardly ever ate at them. But Mr. Couture  dedicated himself to building an institution that was welcoming to  everyone. He included special touches to attract female patrons, and  the diner grew into a place frequented by all. Today, you can find  anyone from day laborers to college students to politicians enjoying a  meal under the original railroad cart ceiling.

Henry's 100-year tenure has not been without its challenges. A fire  in 1969 necessitated a months-long closure and heavy renovations to the  business. Still, care was taken to preserve as much of the original  diner as possible, and Henry's successfully reopened the following  year.

In the early 90s, a McDonald's opened directly across the street from  Henry's. Some feared this signaled a cultural shift and could spell the  end of the historic diner. However, the McDonald's closed years ago  while Henry's remains standing proudly on Bank Street. During COVID-19,  like many other Vermont businesses, the diner weathered staffing  shortages and temporary closures.

In the face of all these difficulties, Henry's has persevered. For a  century now, Henry's has remained a place where people from all walks  of life can gather over hearty food and a hot cup of coffee. The values  that characterize Henry's--community, kindness, and acceptance--are  Vermont values, and our state would not be the same without Henry's  sitting in the heart of Burlington.

Henry's has changed ownership multiple times across its history and  was most recently bought by Patricio Ortiz in 2024. Despite changing  hands, each owner has carried on the quality service that has made  Henry's so beloved. I wish the Ortiz family nothing but success in  continuing Henry's legacy and look forward to another 100 years of good  food and great company.

Thank you, Henry's Diner, for feeding the hearts and souls of so many  Vermonters.