Recognizing Dan Whit's General Store


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694332/recognizing-dan-whits-general-store


Mr. WELCH. Madam President, I rise today to celebrate the 70th  anniversary of one of Vermont's most iconic general stores. Dan &  Whit's has been the beating heart of the Norwich community for 70  years.

Dan & Whit's is a third-generation Vermont family business, nestled  on Main Street in Norwich, VT--my hometown. The store is so integral to  the people of Norwich, it is often used as a landmark: ``Turn right at  Dan & Whit's.'' The building itself is historic, too, having served as  a townhall and post office before being converted into a general store.  Dan Fraser and Whit Hicks, longtime friends, bought the store from its  previous owners in 1955 and renamed it Dan & Whit's. The store has been  run by the Fraser family ever since.

Dan & Whit's is known for their huge inventory. The store is  deceptively large inside, and endless aisles are lined with a vast  selection of goods, rumored to number into the hundreds of thousands.  They stock everything from general store necessities, like cold beer  and sandwiches; to Vermont necessities, like maple sugaring equipment;  to the downright unexpected, like chicken feed and sushi. Their slogan,  ``If we don't have it, you don't need it,'' is stamped on their custom  merchandise and attested to by anyone who visits.

The business is an anchor in the Norwich community. Generations of  high schoolers can trace their first job back to Dan & Whit's.  Customers stop by for milk and end up chatting with so many familiar  faces they forget what they came in for. The store is also a leading  participant in charitable giving around town. They were a pioneer of 19  Days of Norwich, an annual holiday drive where businesses donate a  portion of their December sales to the local food shelf. During the  rest of the year, they put on numerous fundraisers--selling creemees,  pizza, and wine tastings, all to benefit local nonprofits.

The store prides itself on the Vermont values of respect and  acceptance. They have made a point to be inclusive in their hiring,  giving second chances to Vermonters who are exiting homelessness or  incarceration. A sign hanging outside, surrounded by community notices  and posters, proudly reads ``Hate Does Not Grow In the Rocky Soil of  Norwich, Vermont.''

When faced with staffing shortages during COVID-19, it seemed likely  Dan & Whit's would have to close its doors for the first time in  history. The store put out a cry for help, and the call did not go  unanswered. Dozens of community members offered to pick up a shift or  two. The new workers were often older Vermonters who had been retired  for years, but they stocked shelves, checked out customers, and  prepared sandwiches with enthusiasm. They pitched in not because they  had to--many donated their salaries to charity--but because they felt  the store's survival was essential to their community.

Despite the challenges they face as a small business--staffing  shortages, supply chain issues, competition from online retailers--Dan  & Whit's endures. The store represents the best that Vermont has to  offer: a place where the person ringing up your groceries knows your  name and where those running the store care more about their community  than their bottom line.

I extend my deepest thanks to the Fraser family and every Dan &  Whit's employee for their service to Norwich. I wish Dan & Whit's  nothing but success and another 70 years of business.