Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701005/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. WELCH. Madam President, it is time to end the war that the  President started with Iran on February 28--3 weeks ago.

The war must stop now, not a week from now after U.S. taxpayers spend  another $14 billion, another 1,000 innocent civilians are lost, another  500,000 are displaced from their homes, and more economic punishment  here at home; not a month from now after U.S. taxpayers spend another  $60 billion, another 4,000 innocent civilians are lost, another 2  million are displaced from their homes, and even more dire economic  consequences here at home; and certainly not 3 months from now after  U.S. taxpayers spend another $200 billion, another 12,000 innocent  civilians are lost and the creation of a global refugee crisis  affecting millions, and the possibility of a global economic recession.  The time to end the war is now--right now.

Today, we are heading in the opposite direction. The war is  escalating. Netanyahu bombed the South Pars gasfield. Iran retaliated  by bombing Qatar's natural gas hub, the Ras Laffan Industrial City. Oil  prices are surging to nearly $120 a barrel.

The President must act and act now. End this war. The President can  end the war that he started, and if he won't, Congress must.

President Trump's stated goal was to destroy Iran's nuclear  capability, and in his own words, that program was ``totally  obliterated.'' President Trump's stated goal was to degrade Iran's  missile programs. In his own words, we have ``already destroyed 100  percent of Iran's military capability.'' By President Trump's own  account, his objectives have largely been realized.

We are now at a very dangerous inflection point: Do we end the war  now or do we escalate? Do we escalate to achieve Netanyahu's goal--not  ours--of regime change? Do we escalate with no end in sight--an  escalation that will put American boots on the ground? an escalation  American taxpayers will fund with a $200 billion downpayment on yet  another forever war in the Middle East? We must decide. And make no  mistake, indecision, not to decide, is escalation, and escalation will  lead to failure.

President Trump is dragging us toward escalation, and Congress must  not allow it.

America has been down this road before. In Iraq, Saddam presided over  an evil regime. He was deposed quickly. In Afghanistan, the Taliban  were an evil regime. They were deposed quickly, but what came after was  devastating--trillions of dollars of taxpayer money wasted and  thousands of American soldiers killed and injured. The Iraq war cost  nearly $2 trillion. In the Iraq war, we lost more than 4,500 American  servicemembers. The Afghanistan war cost over $2 trillion, and in  Afghanistan, we lost nearly 2,500 American servicemembers.

Unless this escalation is stopped, President Trump's Iran war could  cost even more. And for what? A regime change war in Iran could be  worse--worse than Iraq or even Afghanistan. Regime change is impossible  without boots on the ground. Those boots are the boots of brave  American men and women who will follow the President's order to deploy  should he give it. And regime change is impossible to sustain without a  permanent occupying force.

Iran--make no mistake--is a proud country with proud people, and they  may welcome the riddance of the ayatollahs but will fiercely reject  American and Israeli occupiers. Iran is also huge. It stretches as far  as the distance from Houston, TX, to New York, and it has as many  people as California, Texas, and Florida combined.

Iraq and Afghanistan taught us something that we must not forget, and  that is the limits of military power. In the early phases of both of  those wars, as in Iran now, the extraordinary skills and capabilities  of our military won impressive victories, but what followed those early  victories in Iraq and Afghanistan is already upon us in Iran, and that  is the asymmetric response--the one where the United States, with all  its military might, is at a disadvantage.

Iran's drone attacks have closed the Strait of Hormuz--something that  the Secretary of Energy dismissed as being something that couldn't  happen. Nearly one-third of the global oil, fertilizer,  and helium supplies that we need--that the world needs--flow through  the Strait of Hormuz.

You know, in 1973, we had a big oil disruption that involved only 7  percent of oil supplies, but it created a global economic shock that  reverberated for 10 years. This one could even be worse. Iran can keep  the Strait closed as long as they have access to just enough drones or  enough small boats loaded with explosives that keep international  shippers, who are fearful of losing cargo and crew, from risking  passage.

The costs to American families and businesses from the closing of the  Strait from this asymmetric warfare are staggering. Across the country,  gas prices at the pump are up at least a dollar. The average American  family will pay an additional $2,000 this year in gas. As a country, we  are paying an additional $2 billion every day--$2 billion--for the war  premium that we have to pay at the pump.

In Vermont and across the country, our farmers are paying up to 35 to  40 percent more for fertilizer. More than a third of global fertilizer  supplies have to come through the strait. Just ahead of spring planting  season, farms are facing additional tens of thousands of dollars to do  business.

Vermont families are also paying a war premium to heat their homes.  Heating oil prices are surging from around a little over $3 a gallon to  over $4.70 a gallon. An average family is going to be facing a $1,000  additional expense to maintain heat in their homes.

As the Presiding Officer knows, the Pentagon's costs are absolutely  staggering. The war is costing at least $2 billion a day. The Pentagon  has told Congress that the first 6 days cost $11.3 billion, not  including many other undisclosed things. The Pentagon, we are told, is  going to be requesting a $200 billion supplemental. That, by the way,  is triple the cost of all U.S. weapons that were sent to Ukraine. We  are spending $15 million apiece for THAAD interceptors to shoot down  Iranian missiles. We are spending $4 million apiece for Patriot  interceptors that are shooting down Shahed drones that cost $20,000.

More than 1,300 civilians have already been killed, including over  100 girls by a U.S. strike that went wrong. More than 1,000 have been  killed in Lebanon, where Israel, under Netanyahu, is inflicting a  relentless attack. That includes more than 100 children.

We have had losses, too, in the United States of brave servicemembers  who responded to the call of duty, and I want to acknowledge their  service and their loss: MAJ Jeffrey O'Brien, CPT Cody Khork, CW3 Robert  Marzan, SFC Noah Tietjens, SFC Nicole Amor, SGT Declan Coady, SGT  Benjamin Pennington, Maj. John Klinner, Capt. Ariana Savino, Capt. Seth  Koval, Capt. Curtis Angst, TSgt Ashley Pruitt, and TSgt Tyler Simmons.

I also want to pay respects and acknowledge the exemplary service of  the Vermont Air National Guard's 158th Fighter Wing. Their critical  skills were requested by name and unit. Their unique mission means they  are often the first ones in. Vermonters are very proud of the Green  Mountain Boys, and we pray for their safe return home.

One of the great accomplishments of this American democracy for the  past 250 years--a legacy the Presiding Officer and I are both proud  of--is that the strong military we have serves under elected civilian  leadership. Citizens volunteer to serve, accepting that they will be  deployed at the will of the Commander in Chief and that they will  bravely face all the perils required to defend our freedom.

The citizens who serve in the military have accepted their  responsibility. The U.S. Senate should do the same--accept our  responsibility. Under the Constitution, it is the elected leadership,  including the U.S. Senate, that has the responsibility to carefully  consider when and whether to commit our citizens to the obligations of  war.

Our country is now very deep into this war--the biggest in a  generation. Yet the U.S. Senate has not held a single hearing, has not  had a single debate, and has not demanded a full account from the  Executive as to the war in Iran.

Now we understand the administration is preparing a $200 billion  supplemental funding request for a war that has not even been  explained, much less authorized. I will oppose this funding. I will  oppose sleepwalking into a forever war. I will oppose funding a war  wherein the President has presented no stated objectives or a coherent  plan to achieve them. I will oppose funding a war wherein the President  has proposed no way to pay for it other than to pile up more debt for  our children and grandchildren.

The question before us: Does the United States end this war or do we  escalate it?

I oppose a war and funding a war that will make our country less safe  and our citizens economically more vulnerable.

This is at the heart of our sworn obligation to uphold the  Constitution and fight for the interest of our constituents, of all  Americans. This war makes us less safe, less prosperous. This war must  end.