Save America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701268/save-america-act


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I am going to speak about two topics--the  SAVE Act and the war in Iraq. I would like to start with the SAVE Act.

We are debating the SAVE Act, the SAVE America Act. In my view, that  will actually undermine our elections and sow distrust in the  elections. But I want to present letters and calls I have received from  Vermonters, including our town clerks and their experience and their  judgment about what this will do.

We are very proud in Vermont that we have a very high voter  participation rate and no fraud, and that is a point of pride that is  shared among Republicans, among Independents, and among Democrats.

These are the words of a town clerk in Vermont:

I have serious concerns regarding the SAVE Act,       specifically the barrier it creates for voters and the       unnecessary administrative and infrastructure burden it will       place on election officials.

If the SAVE Act is enacted, it will put a disproportionate       burden on women, low-income families, and anyone who has       changed their name since birth. Requiring the documentation       to prove a name change can be difficult. It can be expensive.

Many women do not have just one name change, and they may       have several due to multiple marriages or divorces, each       requiring additional documentation to create a paper trail.       Even if the government were to provide a free ID, the       underlying documents needed to obtain that ID are rarely       free.

Consider the practical reality. What if a voter loses their       documentation in a house fire or a flood?

By the way, we had three floods 3 years in a row on July 14.

They lack the time or resources to replace these documents       in time to cast their vote.

By the way, that matters to Vermonters of all political persuasions.

Furthermore, if a voter is struggling to put food on their       table and does not have a copy of their birth certificate,       they should not be forced to choose between feeding their       children and exercising their right to vote.

Would voters be forced to use provisional ballots, and if       so, how much more time would my office--

This is the clerk's office--       need to spend processing those after the polls close?

Recently, I had an 85-year-old woman come into my office,       deeply distressed. She doesn't have a driver's license, a       passport, or any other documents that are required under the       SAVE America Act. Yet she has voted in every election her       entire life. She is terrified that her right to vote will be       stripped away.

In a small community like ours, we know our neighbors.       Requiring her to produce a birth certificate she hasn't seen       in decades ignores the reality of local governance.

And as an election official, I also have significant       concerns regarding the logistical challenges this creates.       How are we to verify the authenticity of various out-of-state       documents? What system will I be provided--

This is the clerk--       to ensure these documents are legitimate?

Federal databases are not always updated in real time. If       the act requires verification against the federal database,       any lag in the system would wrongly flag eligible citizens as       ineligible.

Managing the nuances of local, primary, and federal       elections is already a complex task, even for the most       seasoned officials. This act represents yet another unfunded       mandate.

Our taxpayers are demanding lower taxes, and how can we       implement this massive administrative shift without raising       taxes or diverting funds for other essential services?

Elections are the heartbeat of our community, and as an       election official, my priority is ensuring that every       eligible neighbor can cast their vote without undue hardship.

The SAVE America Act threatens to turn a straightforward       civic duty into a costly, bureaucratic nightmare for our town       and its residents. We must ensure that our laws protect the       right to vote for all citizens, regardless of their age, sex,       income, or life circumstances, rather than creating an       unfunded mandate that our taxpayers cannot afford.

Another former town clerk wrote:

I am thoroughly horrified by the onerous requirements for       registering to vote. As a former town clerk, I have always       believed that a well-functioning democracy should do       everything in its power to encourage people to vote, not       throw up roadblocks that effectively block millions of people       from doing so.

Though no one wants noncitizens to be allowed to vote in       federal elections, multiple studies have demonstrated that       this is an extremely rare event.

From a cost-benefit standpoint, the SAVE America Act makes       no sense. I believe the risk of harm to millions of current       and future voters vastly outweighs the risk of noncitizen       voting, which is a relatively minimal issue.

Mr. President, that is what is called Vermont common sense.

If Congress and the public believe that showing a valid ID       at the polling place is something that should be implemented       across the country, this should be proposed in new       legislation that will be delayed until at least 2028 so that       everyone is given the opportunity to obtain a federal       identification card, which can be used for the purposes of       voting.

It is ironic that the Republicans, who have historically been opposed  to a national ID card, are now the ones screaming the loudest for  documentation.

There is absolutely no reason that the bill should specify       that a valid driver's license or a REAL ID card should not       qualify as sufficient documentation to establish one's       eligibility to vote. I believe this is simply a callous       attempt to disenfranchise millions of people of color and       those of lower socioeconomic status, as well as women who       have chosen to change their names upon marriage.

Another clerk writes:

As a former town clerk who managed many Federal elections       over the course of my career, I always felt comfortable with       the Vermont registration form that asked a number of       questions of people who are required to sign an affidavit as       to the accuracy of their residency and citizen status. The       penalties for perjury are severe, and there is little to no       incentive for a noncitizen to risk their status in the United       States by illegally attempting to vote.

Many voter registrations take place through the Department       of Motor Vehicles, and the creation of the so-called motor       voter system has vastly improved the ability of officials to       ensure that voter lists are accurate and up to date.       Additionally, the Vermont election management system is an       online registration system that requires either a Social       Security number that can be cross-checked or a valid Vermont       driver's license number. Both of these systems are fully       functional in Vermont and offer convenience for residents as       well as enhanced accuracy in the maintenance of voter lists       in the conduct of elections.

The clerk continues:

I would venture to suggest that the SAVE Act, in its       current form, would render those systems obsolete and create       a huge problem for town clerks, members of the board of civil       authority, and voters by disallowing driver's licenses and       REAL ID cards as an acceptable form of identification. Both       of these systems would be rendered unusable. Voters in my       State, they have called, they have emailed, and they have       written to me with their concerns.

Another Vermonter, a Vermonter from Stowe:

I am writing to voice my concern over the protection of my       voting rights and the voting rights of millions of other       married women.

I recently needed to renew my passport. I, fortunately,       have my original birth certificate, but found out I no longer       had an original copy of my marriage license. It took me       significant time, effort, and money to obtain the original,       and then to have the passport expedited in order to get it on       time for my trip. We are talking months. I was fortunate that       I had my birth certificate and, as I would imagine, that many       people do not.

In her view, this bill is outrageous.

One Vermonter in Hinesburg said:

I am hearing rumblings that the Senate will be taking       action on the SAVE Act that, unfortunately, passed in the       House.

In this person's view, this is a voter suppression bill.

Personally, I have already purchased copies of my birth       certificate and my marriage license, even though I have a       passport, because I wanted to be damned sure I can vote. But,       obviously, there are many people who won't be able to access       their needed proof of eligibility. If this bill goes through,       they will therefore be denied one of their basic rights as       Americans.

``I am pretty sure you are going to vote no on this,'' she says to  me. ``I just wanted to let you know that I am against it too.''

By the way, she is right. I want this Vermonter to know they are  right.

Another voter in Winooski:

Please vote no to the SAVE Act. It's a solution in search       of a problem because voting by undocumented people does not       happen in any significant degree in this country.

It will disenfranchise millions of voters. It is       essentially a poll tax on anyone who has changed their name       at any point in their life, which means many women, amongst       others, will be unable to vote.

We have watched SCOTUS erode the Voting Rights Act of 1965       by degrees.

The SAVE Act will be a death blow--  in the opinion of this writer--       to the work of so many to enable people to vote, that some       even sacrifice their life for. And it is further endangered       by the lies about this act.

I am listening to my constituents. We all need to listen to our  constituents and our local leaders. We cannot advance a bill that will  disenfranchise voters. We cannot block access to the ballot box. We  cannot limit voices, nor can we stop, nor should we stop, nor should we  impede people from voting. I cannot and will not support the SAVE Act.