Sunset Section 230 Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698531/sunset-section-230-act


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, this bipartisan bill is a crucial first  step to bring Members of Congress, industry, civil society, and  families to the table to discuss the future of the internet. It does  not aim to end the conversation.

Social media, and the internet broadly, continue to evolve. We need  to keep up. Tech platforms must be appropriately incentivized to  address the harmful content that has been allowed to proliferate online  and influence our children, our communities, and our country as a  whole.

Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 was passed into  law during the early days of the internet, with the intent of  incentivizing an environment where platforms could innovate. Section  230 also immunized platforms that engaged in good-faith moderation of  content they deem to violate their platform's terms and conditions or  community standards.

While section 230 played a central role in the growth of the internet  as we know it today, the legislation could not have anticipated the  growth and popularity of social media platforms we are now grappling  with. For nearly 30 years, social media platforms have enjoyed blanket  immunity for the content they host. They have failed to adequately  police harmful content on their sites, despite their terms and  conditions mandating them to do so.

While most of the conversation surrounding section 230 focuses on Big  Tech, it is important to take into consideration small community-based  platforms that are also protected by section 230. These platforms do  not use algorithmic recommendations, do not contain live feeds, like  buttons, and are not in the business of keeping people online. Rather,  they serve as a platform for community engagement. I believe these  platforms can serve as a model for content moderation, and I look  forward to working with my colleagues to find ways to continue to  provide protection for platforms that promote respectful exchange among  users.

I have long advocated for free speech and believe that all  communities should have the right to express themselves online. But  tech platforms have made billions while ignoring violent and  exploitative content and disinformation that lives on their platforms.  It is time for Congress to act.