Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696453/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. WELCH.  Res. 77.

Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I want to speak on two topics, one after  the other, healthcare and then tariffs.                                  Healthcare

Mr. President, open enrollment will begin across the country on  Saturday. Many have already received notice of new sky-high premiums,  including, by the way, notices that went out to my fellow Vermonters.  Many across the country will log on to the Marketplace on Saturday. It  is a scary day for them because they will be checking to see what it  will cost them next year to purchase the same healthcare that they have  this year. Twenty-four million Americans are going to be doing that  this Saturday.

Folks across the country are going to get some bad news; that without  the tax credits that are in place now and are set to expire by the end  of the year, their healthcare premiums are going to double, triple,  and, in some cases, quadruple and even worse.

What Vermonters are finding--our website went up on October 15--is  truly a shocking increase in premiums, and it is not affordable. By the  way, these are folks, some of whom voted for Trump, some of whom  didn't, but all of whom deeply care about their families and their  small businesses and their farmers. I will give you an example.

A family of four making $130,000 a year--a very good income in  Vermont--would have paid $1,200 a month in 2025. Next year, they are  going to have to pay $3,035. That is a $22,000 increase. A family of  four making about $64,000 a year is going to pay 920 percent more for  healthcare premiums. Obviously, that is going to mean they have to  decide whether they are going to go without or somehow, some way, try  to find a way to pay that, which they really won't be able to do.

Let me give some starters to make it very concrete about Vermonters.  A woman named Sarah is going to see her premium go from $217 a month to  $1,200 a month. This is a person who is 63, self-employed, and might  have to go without healthcare for the first time in her life.

Cara, also self-employed, has had the same income for 20 years,  really scraping by. She pays about $100 a month for healthcare through  the Marketplace. Her premium goes up to $1,200.

Erica is paying $1,166 for her family. The deductible for her family  of three is $15,000. This is barely insurance. Erica and her family  make this premium work somehow, but I am sure it is not easy. Without  the tax credits, her monthly premium goes to $2,650.

Maria and her husband run a small food business in Vermont. He spends  half the year fishing in Alaska. They pay just under $240 a month, but  they are looking at $1,740 per month unless the Senate acts. That is  for bronze plan, which you know is the lowest level plan. They will be  paying about $21,000 per year with a deductible of $7,700 per person.

The examples I gave of Vermonters are going to be true in Indiana;  they are going to be true in Louisiana; they are going to be true all  across the country. We have been having this debate about a shutdown,  but what we haven't been having is a negotiation about how to protect  families from a rate shot that they can't afford that means they are  really going to lose healthcare.

I do urge us and I urge the President to act aggressively to resolve  this. It will help folks. Whether they are in a red State or a blue  State, whether they identify as a Republican or Democrat or  Independent, it just doesn't matter. We have a healthcare system that  is too, too expensive--beyond reach--and it is crippling to our small  businesses, our farmers, and our families.                                   Tariffs

Mr. President, I want to address another topic, and that is the topic  of tariffs. They are doing incredible harm to our economy in Vermont.  In my view, they are doing long-term damage to our economy here in the  United States.

I want to commend my colleagues Senator Paul, Senator Kaine, and  others, Senator Shaheen, Ranking Member Wyden, and Leader Schumer for  sponsoring the bipartisan legislation we voted on yesterday suspending  the emergency authority on which the President was acting to impose a  tariff on Brazil, a country, by the way, with whom we have a trade  surplus.

We are 9 months into this trade war with tariffs at the forefront. It  is a war with Canada. It sort of started with them. That is a big deal  for Vermont. We are a border State. But it is a big deal for all of our  States because Vermont is 1 of 34 States whose major trading partner is  Canada.

For Vermont, Canada has been our largest export market and the  largest source of imports. Trade with Canada accounted for 35 percent  of our State exports and 67 percent of Vermont's imports and 56 percent  of its total trade.

We have small businesses now that are really struggling to keep their  lights on. We have farmers across the country but also farmers in  Vermont who are incredibly worried about whether they are going to be  able to make it into the next harvest. We had a drought. We had early  floods. And now we have these tariffs that are increasing the input  costs. I know, Mr. President, as a Senator from Indiana, you are very  sensitive to the challenges that our agriculture economy and our  farmers face.

Things were bumping along, and then President Trump just recently  announced an additional 10-percent tariff on Canada, which already had  a 35-percent effective rate. We don't even know what that applies to.  Is that 10 percent on top of 35 percent or on specific products? Of  course, all of that was done because the President was irritated about  an ad that was run, apparently, by the Province of Ontario that was  quoting a speech that President Reagan made some years ago about how  destructive tariffs are. Maybe that does irritate the President. But  the constant changing of what a tariff is from day to day creates havoc  for our businesses that are trying to plan and control their expenses  and deal with all the other uncertainties that they face.

These tariffs are hurting our farmers. Just think about this.  Fertilizers--those costs are up 16 percent and in some cases, 39  percent. The effective rate on tractors and other farming machinery is  16 percent and 13 percent, respectively.

We have also had, as a result of the tariffs that are seen by our  trading partner in Canada that was the participant in the U.S.-Mexico- Canada Trade Agreement--negotiated, by the way, by President Trump, an  agreement he bragged about as being really effective and the best trade  agreement--that is getting ripped up in many ways. And then when you  add to it the insults that were hurled at Canada--the ``51st State,''  the ``Governor of Canada''--it has had a catastrophic impact on the  tourism Vermont has depended on from our Canadian neighbors with whom  we have enormous respect.

That is not just true for Vermont. New Hampshire, Maine, Montana are  seeing an incredible drop in tourism that is related to this tariff  battle and the rhetoric associated with it.

Also, in Vermont, just as in Indiana, our small businesses are really  a big deal. I have been hearing from them. I am hearing from bed and  breakfasts, hotels, brewers, distillers--any industry. I will give a  few stories, a few quotes.

Simon Perkins at Orvis in Manchester:

The reality is that, in a rapidly changing tariff       environment, one that's forced on companies too quickly, it's       really hard for a business to respond quick enough to make it       work.

Orvis, which was founded in 1856, announced the closure of 31 stores  and five outlet locations by 2026. Orvis had to lay off 50 employees,  citing tariffs.

Another business, Peter Case of Burrows Sports in Brattleboro:

We love what we do and it's under attack! For 90 years,       Burrows Sports has proudly served Brattleboro, growing with       our community through good times and hard ones. Today's       economic pressures, rising costs, and shrinking margins are       testing small local businesses like never before.

Jim Hall from Vermont Country Store:

This is the lull before the storm. . . . Do they realize       this is a tax on Christmas?

These tariffs are a tax. They are paid for by our businesses. They  disrupt our businesses. They are passed on to consumers, and there is  nothing but a downside, especially when you add the fact that these  tariffs are a tax. They are imposed and implemented in a totally  arbitrary way, wherein a person who is running a business has to  contend with all the uncertainties of a  volatile marketplace and has to deal with the constant uncertainties  that are the result of an ever-changing tariff policy.

I urge all of us in the Senate to reassert our own authority under  article I, which gives to the Congress the power to tax, the power to  impose tariffs or not, and to not have us continue to relinquish the  authority and responsibility to the Executive that we have as the U.S.  Senate.

This is our responsibility, and part of the reason is that we are  close to people who are affected by these policies. It is a shirking of  our responsibility for the U.S. Senate to essentially cede that  authority to a President, particularly when we are seeing in every  single State the harmful impacts on folks in our States--on the  businesses in our States, on the farmers and ranchers in our States-- who are working hard to try to pull things together and keep their  businesses going, our economy going, and contributing to the well-being  of our country.

I call on the President to reconsider what these tariffs are doing.

I call on our U.S. Senate to reassert its authority and be the  decider of what the tariff policy shall be in this country.