The New Start Treaty


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699676/the-new-start-treaty


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, on February 13, 2025, President Trump said  something few expected to hear. He said, ``There's no reason for us to  be building brand-new nuclear weapons. We already have so many. . . You  could destroy the world 50 times over, 100 times over. And here we are  building new nuclear weapons . . . We're all spending a lot of money  that we could be spending on other things that are actually, hopefully,  much more productive.''

I could not agree more with that statement. It is why I want to speak  about the New START Treaty, which expires on February 5, and the very  real possibility of a new nuclear arms race--something that, to my  knowledge, neither the President, Vice President, nor any other senior  U.S. official has meaningfully discussed.

The decision to start a nuclear war can be made by a single  individual--the President of the United States--with no requirement  that he first consult with anyone. A nuclear war could also be started  at any moment by Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping, or any other leader of a  nuclear weapon state. Or it could be triggered by mistake.

A single use of a tactical nuclear weapon, either by accident or  design, could trigger a flurry of escalating responses with far more  powerful strategic weapons that would cause incalculable loss of life,  widespread radiation poisoning, and destruction on a scale unlike  anything seen in human history. We all, regardless of political  affiliation, must reaffirm what Presidents Reagan and Gorbachev said 40  years ago: ``A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.''

For the past 80 years, the probability of mutually assured  destruction has deterred the use of nuclear weapons. But in today's  increasingly dangerous and unpredictable world, with mercurial leaders  like Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong Un, we cannot rely on deterrence  alone. Existing nuclear arms control treaties are either no longer  adhered to by Russia or the United States or, as in the case of New  START, are on the verge of expiring.

That represents a colossal failure of leadership by both the United  States and Russia. There is no greater threat to humanity than a  nuclear war, yet there are no negotiations underway to replace the  treaty, nor are there discussions to consider a new generation of  limits on nuclear weapons.

My colleague from Massachusetts Senator Markey and several others  here have sought to counter this complacency. But the danger of a new  nuclear arms race has received far too little attention from Congress  and the administration, and with tomorrow's expiration of the New START  Treaty, it is staring us in the face.

The United States, and our allies, must urgently seek to reinvigorate  negotiations on a verifiable replacement for New START, with more  effective mechanisms to prevent the development, proliferation, and use  of nuclear weapons. Until then, we and the Russians should agree to  continue abiding by the limits under New START, as President Putin has  reportedly proposed. Despite our stark differences with the Russians,  they have as much interest in preventing an unwinnable nuclear war as  we do.

We must also invigorate discussions with China, which has some 600  nuclear weapons. That number is expected to more than double in fewer  than 10 years.

If Putin refuses to replace New START, despite it being in Russia's  own national interest, there are other steps that we, Russia, and China  should take--short of negotiating a new treaty--to help reduce the risk  of a nuclear war, whether due to a false alarm, error, or other  misperception. For example:

* Creating joint early warning centers to monitor missile       launches;

* De-targeting, so any accidental launch of a nuclear armed       missile lands in the ocean;

* Removing all nuclear weapons from high-alert status;

* Reducing incentives to respond quickly to an unconfirmed       nuclear attack;

* Reducing the number of deployed nuclear weapons; and

* Renouncing first use of nuclear weapons and eliminating       the President's authority to launch nuclear weapons without       congressional approval.

Since the 1980s, thanks to negotiators in both countries, the United  States and Russia curtailed an unrestrained nuclear arms race that had  led to the deployment of staggering numbers of increasingly destructive  weapons that could not rationally be justified for deterrence or any  other purpose. The START Treaty and New START were historic  achievements.

Twelve months ago, President Trump spoke of the need for the United  States, Russia, and China to stop building more nuclear weapons. Yet  while his National Security Strategy calls for ``the world's most  robust, credible, and modern nuclear deterrent,'' it says nothing about  preventing another nuclear arms race. With respect to New START, he  reportedly said, ``If it expires, it expires.''

As the New START Treaty fades into history, one commentator has  suggested that ``one likely successor to nuclear weapons' sole  dominance on the strategic value ladder could be AI technology. . .  Either AI technology itself will become the primary strategic weapon-- or it will enable the rapid creation of alternatives that render  nuclear arsenals increasingly irrelevant to real-world outcomes.''

It is only a matter of time--and probably far less time than we  think--before the application of AI technology to warfare creates a  whole new impetus for global instability. But even as AI becomes more  versatile as a disruptive and destructive force, nuclear weapons and  the threat of nuclear war are not going to disappear. So I urge  President Trump to elevate nuclear arms control to the top of his  national security agenda. Even the modest steps I have mentioned to  reduce the chance of a catastrophic mistake or miscalculation resulting  in the use of nuclear weapons should be among our highest national  security priorities.