Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696342/trump-administration


Mr. WELCH. Will the Senator yield for a question?

Mr. WELCH. How are you managing to do this? You have been up all  night and your staff too. It is really, really quite extraordinary.

Mr. WELCH. Will the Senator yield for another question? I will ask  another one.

Mr. WELCH. All right.

Mr. WELCH. I will make it a longish one, but I want to join my  colleagues in expressing our gratitude for this incredible physical  effort that reflects not just your intellectual engagement but your  compassion and the care you have for Oregonians, whom you have been  serving so well for so long. It has really been, just for me, a  wonderful opportunity to be a new Member of the Senate, along with  Senator Schiff, who I know feels the same way to be working with  somebody like the Senator from Oregon, who is just honest and true and  totally grounded in his commitment to the people whom he serves and the  Constitution that all of us serve. It is just a gratifying experience  for us to be your colleagues.

You know, one thing that I wanted to talk about was tariffs and who  has the authority to impose tariffs and what the implications are,  because what I am seeing is that our farm economy is really being  devastated by tariffs.

Let's talk about Midwest farmers. They are proud folks, like the  dairy farmers in Vermont, and they used to have markets. The thing they  loved to have is purchasing power that they earned by tilling the land  and having family farm operations that would be passed on from  generation to generation. They really didn't want a lot of government  involvement or interference. They wanted to be able to grow their  crops. And what I am seeing is that the Trump administration's embrace  of tariffs has resulted in the total collapse of the markets that used  to be available to our Midwest farmers, including the China market.

You know, last year, our farmers sold about 30, 40 percent of their  soybean crops to China. They haven't sold a bushel, OK? They haven't  sold a bushel. There is now talk, by Trump, of taking revenue from the  tariffs to pay farmers a subsidy. I get it--the farmers need it--but  wouldn't it make more sense to let farmers sell the crops that they  grow rather than have a tariff that prohibits them from selling to  markets they have had?

Then the second thing I noticed--and I really am interested in this  because rural America is the heart of America, you know, with the  wonderful community values folks have--family values--  hard work, service. We have got a billionaire who is the Secretary of  the Treasury. In my understanding--I don't know how. I guess, if you  are a billionaire, you own lots of things in lots of different places,  but he, apparently, owns lots of farmland in the West. But his major,  new initiative is to take $40 billion of our money to bail out the  Argentine peso.

So maybe you can explain to me how that is going to help our Midwest  farmers--a stronger, bailed-out peso from Secretary Bessent--and how  the Bessent policy on tariffs is going to give any kind of lifeline to  those family farms that have been so much a part of our heritage, who  do so much for the well-being of our country, and whose prosperity is  so essential to the well-being of our whole country.

Farmers like to feed people. They like to work hard. They don't want  a bailout, and they don't want a handout. We have got the tariff  policies that are wrecking the markets, and then we have got a bailout  that is going to Argentina that is going to further erode the ability  of our farmers to sell their product because, oh, by the way, the  Argentinian farmers are now going into the markets we are helping them  create that have been opened up as a result of denying access to those  markets for our Midwest farmers.

So perhaps you could explain to me how this makes sense.

Mr. WELCH. I think I know the answer.

Mr. WELCH. Will the Senator yield again?

Mr. WELCH. So here is my question:

Is this really a bailout for the financiers on Wall Street who bought  this debt at 20 cents on the dollar but may get paid $1 on the dollar  or is this just flat-out enrichment? They didn't lose. They are winning  as other people suffer. So is this really a bailout or just a flat-out  ``Hey, fellas. Here is $40 billion. I love you, Donald Trump''?

Mr. WELCH. Well, I appreciate that.

I yield to the Senator.