U.S. Withdrawal From United Nations Organizations and Programs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699129/us-withdrawal-from-united-nations-organizations-and-programs


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, last week we learned that President Trump  has decided to withdraw the United States from 66 United Nations  organizations,  offices, and treaties that have had bipartisan support in Congress for  decades. As far as I am aware, neither the White House nor the State  Department consulted Congress about this extremist and, frankly, self- defeating decision.

We all want to see the United Nations become more efficient and  eliminate unnecessary duplication and waste. This may, indeed, be a  time to reassess our participation in some of these organizations,  something we should do every 5 to 10 years. The world is constantly  changing, and our priorities and funding decisions need to adapt. But  for an administration to take such a drastic, unilateral step is  unprecedented, short-sighted, and certain to weaken U.S. global  leadership and U.S. national security.

Among the organizations and programs the President plans to withdraw  from include the Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary  General on Sexual Violence in Conflict, the United Nations Population  Fund, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the UN Register of  Conventional Arms, the International Tropical Timber Organization, the  International Union for the Conservation of Nature, and the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

I seriously doubt that President Trump is familiar with the work that  any of these organizations do or why the United States during  Republican and Democratic administrations has been a leading member and  supporter. While I will not recount each of their mandates and  activities, I encourage my colleagues to do so. It would become readily  apparent that their work is squarely in sync with U.S. national  interests.

Of course, if one believes, as the President and some of his closest  advisers believe, that climate change is a hoax and that any program or  organizations with the words ``climate'' or ``nature'' in its title  should be eliminated, then it is not surprising that they would want to  withdraw from the IUCN, the IPCC, and the UNFCCC, which play key and  complementary roles in monitoring and reporting on the health and  environmental impacts of carbon emissions and the destruction of the  Earth's biodiversity.

If you believe, as perhaps some in the administration believe, that  preventing sexual violence in conflict is not something that requires  international cooperation, then there would be no need for the Office  of the Special Representative. But Members of Congress and their staff  who have met with the extraordinarily knowledgeable and dedicated  occupants of that position over the years would strongly disagree.

If you believe that the alarming proliferation of conventional  weapons, including small arms like machine guns and shoulder-fired  missiles that are susceptible to ending up in the hands of terrorists  and narcotics traffickers halfway around the world is not a problem,  then it is understandable why some would favor withdrawing from the UN  Register of Conventional Arms, which provides transparency on arms  transfers and helps to deter the traffic in illicit weapons. But it is  as illogical as it is dangerous.

And if you believe that it is wrong to support an organization that  provides lifesaving, voluntary family planning information and services  in countries where impoverished women and girls lack access to modern  contraceptives, then it is hypocritical but not surprising that some,  for purely political and ideological reasons, would want to withdraw  from the UN Population Fund, even though it is prohibited by its own  bylaws from supporting abortion.

The key point I want to make is that applying an ideological litmus  test to these organizations and withdrawing from them without any  consultation or debate will further isolate the United States. Our  adversaries will fill the vacuum. There are many problems that cannot  be solved by the United States or any other country alone: global  warming, the destruction of tropical forests, acidification of the  oceans, rape as a weapon of war, illicit arms sales, and unsustainable  population growth in countries that cannot feed their own people today.  These daunting challenges require regional and global cooperation and  the active involvement of these UN organizations that provide the  necessary expertise, data, strategies, and guidance. Their  effectiveness is a function of the quality and active participation of  their members, and without the United States, their ability to carry  out their mandates will suffer.

Congress understands this. In their bipartisan fiscal year 2026  conference agreement for National Security, the Department of State,  and Related Programs that was published earlier this week, House and  Senate appropriators recommend continued funding for most UN  organizations and programs, as in past years.

According to their bylaws, no UN member state, including the United  States, can withdraw from some, if not many, of these organizations and  treaties by simply declaring an intent to withdraw. There is an interim  period of months before a withdrawal takes effect. Withdrawing from  treaties may require an act of Congress. It would be a serious mistake  for the White House to go down that road, absent a thorough assessment  by the relevant executive Agencies and congressional committees of  jurisdiction of the pros and cons of doing so. Otherwise, it will be  just a matter of time before China or some other country occupies the  dominant positions in not only these organizations but the UN  Secretariat itself. By then, Donald Trump will be gone, but it will be  too late to reverse course, and future generations of Americans will  pay the price.