War Powers Resolution


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700313/war-powers-resolution


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, we must act. The President has made a  decision unilaterally without consultation of Congress to start yet  another war in the Middle East. It is a reckless decision that is very  detrimental to the well-being of our country and very threatening to  the Constitution.

There are three issues that are absolutely essential to consider by  this Congress. First of all, No. 1, America does not want this war. And  I trust the American people. The reason America does not want this war  is they have seen it before. They saw it in Iraq where the  justification was weapons of mass destruction. They saw it in  Afghanistan where the justification was getting rid of the Taliban.  They saw it in Libya where the justification was getting rid of  Qadhafi.

In each case--Saddam, Qadhafi, the Taliban--yes, they were evil  people doing bad things--but what was a lie to the American people, and  they saw, was that there were no weapons of mass destruction. The  Taliban is now back in power after 20 years of war, and the chaos that  was sown in Libya lives with us to this day.

America understands that it is easy for a President to assert he  wants to go to war. He is the Commander in Chief. He can do it, as he  has done in this case, by bypassing Congress. But what the American  people have seen is that it is easy to start a war, but the  consequences and the costs are not avoidable, and they have been very  damaging to the well-being of the people of this country; they have  been very damaging to our prosperity; and, of course, they have caused  immense loss of life of our wonderful soldiers and men and women in  uniform. The American people get it.

No. 2, we cannot, under our Constitution, go to war on the basis of a  decision by one man. The whole point in our Constitution of vesting  war-making authority in the Congress was because our Founders saw how  Kings abused their powers to go to war, how an autocrat abuses his  power to unilaterally decide to go to war.

A quote from Abraham Lincoln:

The provision of the Constitution [that is, our       Constitution] giving the war-making powers to Congress, was       dictated . . . by the following reasons . . . Kings had       always been involving and impoverishing their people in wars,       pretending generally, if not always, that the good of the       people was the object. This, our Convention understood       [Lincoln said] to be the most oppressive of all Kingly       oppression and they resolved to so frame the Constitution       that no one man should hold the power of bringing this       oppression upon us.

Yet, in fact, that is exactly what is happening now. One man--Donald  Trump--unilaterally decided to start this war. It is the same person,  by the way, with--who as candidate Trump decried, and quite rightly,  the rush to war. He decried especially wars of regime change as total  failures. He decried the $7 trillion that was spent in Iraq and  Afghanistan.

So now, we have a new situation where the President woke up one day,  announced he is going to war, and abandoned his America First  commitment. What is clear here is this war is not necessary. Iran, the  Ayatollah, the regime is a threat. We have been containing that threat.  There were negotiations about their nuclear capabilities that were  making significant progress. Don't forget that this administration is  the one that tore up the agreement in the Obama administration where we  had eyes on exactly what was happening in the Iran nuclear program and  there was compliance. And we have substituted it with bluster and now,  ultimately, this war of choice.

This is a war that has been pushed hard by Prime Minister Netanyahu,  who just before the war started was whispering in the ear of Donald  Trump, and it is pretty clear that the President was persuaded by  Netanyahu. The President should be more persuaded by the voices of the  American people who have learned lessons of Iraq and Afghanistan and  even going to back to Vietnam.

The third reason Americans don't want this war is they want us in  this Congress, in this administration, to focus on the needs of  Americans. We have a situation in Vermont now that is similar to what  people face all over this country. Healthcare is something that is out  of reach for everyday Americans. That is absolutely essential. And you,  yourself, and I and others did our level best to try to extend tax  credits to working families and farmers and small businesses who  depended on them to be able to continue to have healthcare. With the  One Big Beautiful Bill, 15 million people are losing Medicaid access.

What we are seeing is the acceleration of income inequality where  people  who work hard, oftentimes two jobs, who don't have more time in their  life to even work more, at the end of the month can't pay their bills.  And isn't it time that we focus on meeting the needs of Americans?  Basic things like healthcare, like affordable housing, like childcare,  things that make a family secure, things that make a community strong.

There is absolutely no coherent rationale that the President has  offered for the end game of this war against Iran. And there is  absolutely no explanation from the President about why he has abandoned  what he asserted was his longtime opposition to wars of regime change.

And this is the question for all of us in this Chamber who serve in  the U.S. Senate and who have responsibilities under the Constitution,  specifically article I: Will this U.S. Senate allow a single man to  plunge this Nation into war when it is our constitutional  responsibility to make a decision as to whether to send our men and  women into combat? That is our responsibility and vote, as all of us  will. We cannot avoid our responsibility to vote, to stand and to be  counted.

Now, at the close, I want to say something that I know every single  one of the Members of the Senate feels very strongly, and that is  support for our men and women in uniform.

We have brave members of the Vermont Guard that are serving right  now, and I speak of my concern for them, their well-being, and their  families. But I express that same strong sensibility toward every  family who has a servicemember serving in this conflict, and I say that  to every servicemember in the conflict: We support you.

But, Mr. President, this is a wrong decision. You do not have the  right to make this decision unilaterally.

And I say to my colleagues in the Congress: We must stand up and do  our job and meet our responsibility. And that is why I am a strong  supporter of Senator Kaine and Senator Paul's War Powers Resolution.