Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697064/whole-milk-for-healthy-kids-act-of-2025


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleague the Senator  from Kansas, and I wanted to join him in drinking a glass of whole  milk. My only regret is it is not Vermont milk, but I have got to tell  you the best milk is made in Vermont.

Thank you very much.

As the Senator was saying, this is a very serious thing in two ways.  No. 1, we have to have good nutrition for our kids, and the Senator  from Kansas has outlined why milk is so good.

Of course, I remember growing up and going to grammar school, and I  looked forward to milk. We had milk breaks, and it made a difference to  pay attention in those afternoon classes and to be active in your  sports activities right after that.

The second reason is that the dairy farming industry is not so much  an industry as it is a way of life, and in Vermont, the hardest working  people we have are our dairy farmers. It is a hard, hard job, but it is  one where families have done it from generation to generation.

There is enormous pride in being custodians of the landscape and  caring for the animals and the herd, and in providing nutritious milk  for the community. And there is a lot of pressure on our farmers. This  whole milk bill is an acknowledgment of the extraordinary contribution  that the dairy farmers in the State of Vermont make to the entire State  of Vermont and that the dairy farmers in America make to all of  America, including, of course, those wonderful dairy farmers in the  great State of Kansas.

Now, on this bill, we have had incredible cooperation from our  Senators, who have raised a very important concern: Some people are  lactose intolerant. They can't drink milk. And the way the legislation  was written--but, actually, because of something that went back to the  Truman years--there is some suggestion that is a disability.

I want to thank Senator Alsobrooks, who is here, for bringing this to  our attention, along with Senator Warnock, in working with us to try to  get through this so that there is no question about this being a  ``disability.'' This is about folks who can drink milk having access to  milk, and it is about honoring our dairy farmers for the work that they  do.

I am really happy to be here with my colleague. I understand Senator  Alsobrooks may have some questions, and I will yield to her for that  purpose.

Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Alsobrooks, as  usual she is right, and there are two points. One is we want to make  certain that the parents have the ability, on behalf of their children,  to choose an alternative that is best for their kids. So this is not  about forcing people to drink milk or depriving parents of the  responsibility and power they have to make certain that their kids are  healthy. So thank you so much, Senator Alsobrooks, for that.

And then, secondly, the lactose intolerance point the Senator makes  is valid, and that is why I am enthusiastically looking forward to  working with her, so we make certain there is no stigma associated with  a person who is lactose intolerant.

So thank you so much for your cooperation on this, Senator, and you  have my commitment to work with you to try to resolve what is an  anomaly and shouldn't be there.