Women's Health


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696465/womens-health


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, on September 11, 2025, the spokeswoman for  the U.S. Agency for International Development, USAID, confirmed to the  New York Times that $9.7 million worth of contraceptives being stored  in a warehouse in Belgium had been destroyed at the direction of the  Trump administration. These contraceptives were intended for people in  poor countries with high rates of morbidity and mortality for pregnant  women, infants, and children.

Just 1 day later, the spokeswoman rescinded her previous statement,  claiming that there had been a ``miscommunication'' and that the  contraceptives in question had not yet been incinerated. This was  confirmed by Belgian officials who visited the warehouse where the  materials were being stored.

Although Belgium prohibits the destruction of reusable medical  devices, aid workers worry that the Trump administration will run down  the clock until these contraceptives expire. Most of the products  expire in 2028 or 2029, with some expiring as early as April 2027.  Destination countries often have rules for importing medical supplies  based on remaining shelf life. The administration may exploit these  rules to stop their distribution.

Destroying these contraceptives would have cost American taxpayers an  estimated $167,000, on top of the $9.7 million already spent to  purchase them. At the time of this incident, three African countries  had reportedly already run out of contraceptives completely, and 13  more were on the verge of running out due to President Trump's and Elon  Musk's reckless destruction of USAID and cuts to foreign aid.

Seeking to destroy safe, lifesaving contraceptives is emblematic of  the Trump administration's approach to foreign aid. Destroying these  birth control products would exacerbate an already dire problem and  would lead to more unwanted and high-risk pregnancies, unsafe  abortions, and higher maternal mortality rates. The administration's  other drastic cuts to foreign aid have already reduced or eliminated  food aid for many families, forcing parents to remove their young  daughters from school and into child marriage, increasing sexual  violence and the risk of pregnancy-related deaths.

This administration's ideologically driven disregard for global  public health worldwide is appalling. Contraceptives are legal and  widely used in America. They prevent unwanted pregnancies and  abortions. They enable women to choose when to have a child and grow  their families, by doing so increasing the chances their children will  survive beyond the age of 2.

I urge the White House to put the lives of women and children above  politics by allowing these contraceptives, purchased with funds agreed  to by a large majority of congressional Republicans and Democrats, to  be made available to those who need them most. Women and girls in  dozens of the poorest countries are depending on these commodities to  take control of their lives. Destroying them is antithetical to  America's long-held values and reputation of safeguarding public health  around the world.