Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689912/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. HERN of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this  legislation that will unlock the critical work the American people  elected us to do.

Let's not forget that the only reason we are in this position to be  working on such important legislation is because of President Donald  Trump. President Trump's message resonated with the American people,  and they elected him in historic numbers. They delivered Republican  majorities in the House and the Senate because they want Congress to  deliver on the promises we made.

Today, it is time for us to act so that we can get on with the real  work in our committees. In passing this budget framework, we are  unlocking the process to deliver on unleashing American energy  production, permanently securing our southern and northern borders, and  making tax cuts permanent for small businesses and working families.

If we fail, every American will see the largest tax increase in  American history. Just days away from tax day, this is as important a  time as any to put the American people first. We cannot fail the  hardworking Americans who are trusting us to get this done or the small  businesses that rely on consistency in our tax code.

President Trump has fully secured our border and eliminated over $100  billion in government spending on waste, fraud, and abuse.

My Democratic colleagues speak of confusion, as we have heard today.  Let me remove some of that confusion. President Trump's new proposal on  tax cuts is for those making tips, not the wealthy; those on overtime,  not the wealthy; and reducing the tax burden on those receiving Social  Security, our seniors, not the wealthy.

The President has talked about giving tax credits or deductibility  for interest on automobiles made in America so our great union workers  in America can have better jobs and continue to see jobs grow in  America, not the wealthy.

My Democratic colleagues want to talk about fear over facts, as we  have heard from their leaders today. Let me remind them of what  happened. They inherited a government in January 2021 with 1.4 percent  inflation, and they delivered 9.1 percent inflation just 5 months  later. That was almost a sevenfold, 700 percent, increase in inflation  on the American people.

When they talk about being good stewards of the American taxpayers'  tax dollars, this is an outright abuse of the facts. The facts are they  are the ones who increased inflation, as my colleague said, over 20  percent over a 4-year period.

The reason the American people are suffering today is not because of  the 70 days that President Trump has been in office. It is because of  the 4 years of the Biden administration and the Democratic Party.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support this budget, and I am proud to  fight for President Trump's legislative agenda. I urge every one of my  colleagues here to vote so we can get on to the debate that the leader  on the other side of the aisle talked about.