Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698397/lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act


Mr. HERN of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased this bill is coming  to the floor today.

Every patient's health needs are unique, and every person's situation  is different. This is why it is so important to expand and protect the  different options available to individuals, and this bill does exactly  that. It gives the decisionmaking process back to the American people.

I am honored that this package includes my bill, the CHOICE  Arrangement Act, which makes it easier for small businesses--something  that I know something about after 35 years in business--to offer  healthcare coverage. It gives individuals more options to choose health  plans that work for them.

CHOICE accounts put individuals in the driver's seat when it comes to  picking their healthcare plan and lets their employer financially  support their decision. This empowers people in one of their most  personal decisions, their healthcare.

Over the last 15 years, healthcare has become unaffordable for  everyone, including 164 million Americans covered by employer-sponsored  plans. Yet, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to  ignore these individuals in their healthcare conversations.

The gentleman from California just stated, ``This is for 4 million,''  what they are talking about. We want to lower the healthcare costs for  over 300 million people in America.

Premiums are rising for all Americans, whether you are on the  exchange or an employer-sponsored plan, whether you are a Democrat or a  Republican, whether you are healthy or you are unhealthy.

We should be focused on making healthcare affordable for all  Americans and include those on the exchange, employer-sponsored plans,  Medicare, and Medicaid.

The provisions of this bill are a start to doing so by giving  Americans what they need: lower costs, more choices, and increased  transparency.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''