Promoting Responsible Oversight to Eliminate Communist Teachings for Our Kids Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697531/promoting-responsible-oversight-to-eliminate-communist-teachings-for-our-kids-act


Mr. HERN of Oklahoma. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of my bill,  H.R. 1069, the PROTECT Our Kids Act, and I urge my colleagues, both  Republican and Democrat, to support this bill.

Through the Belt and Road Initiative, the Chinese Communist Party has  been spreading its malign influence for over a decade. This initiative  has one goal: to increase China's economic and political dominance over  the United States and the world. Disguised as harmless global  infrastructure, transportation, and production networks, this global  campaign is anything but harmless.

Education is one of the primary targets of the Belt and Road  Initiative, and they are succeeding in their mission to indoctrinate  American students with their Communist ideals.

Mr. Speaker, Chinese state media has even bragged about the success  of Confucius Institutes and other educational initiatives in spreading  the CCP's influence.

This doesn't stop at our college campuses. Right now, China is  invading our K-12 schools through Confucius Classrooms. Over the last  decade or more, the CCP has infiltrated our public education system,  setting up Chinese language and cultural programs in primary and  secondary schools.

Similar to the Confucius Institute model at our universities, China  rapidly expanded these programs to over 1,000 established worldwide by  2017, with over 500 in the United States. In exchange, their contracts  allow China to staff these programs, provide curriculum, and require  teachers to sign contracts, ensuring they do not damage the national  interests of China.

Make no mistake, this is not out of the kindness of their hearts. The  CCP is not interested in helping American students learn Mandarin. They  want to brainwash our children, plain and simple.

Since 2013, the authoritarian Government of the People's Republic of  China has sent curriculum and PRC-trained teachers into hundreds of K- 12 schools across America as an unofficial component of its global  influence campaign.

Concern over the threat posed by Confucius Classrooms is not new. In  2020, Secretaries DeVos and Pompeo sent a letter to State education  commissioners, outlining their concern with these types of programs and  urging schools to consider the threat they may pose to academic  freedom. The State Department found that approval from the PRC's  Minister of Education is required when filling teaching positions  associated with Confucius Classrooms.

Concerns over the threat posed by Confucius Classrooms are not always  exclusive to the United States. In Australia, the New South Wales  Department of Education ended the Confucius Classroom presence in  public schools due to concerns of potential propaganda. They replaced  the programs with Chinese language programs funded and managed solely  by Australians.

Similarly, in 2019, the Canadian Province of New Brunswick initiated  a two-stage removal of Confucius Institute-funded programs from  elementary and middle schools--once again, due to the threat of Chinese  propaganda.

The CCP has committed countless violations of human rights, and its  authoritarian agenda is antithetical to  the democratic principles our country was founded on. Chinese  propaganda has no place in our education system.

We have taken important steps toward mitigating Chinese influence at  our American universities by cracking down on Confucius Institutes. Now  that the Chinese Government has directed its attention toward our  elementary and secondary schools, it is time we do the same and protect  our children from the malign influence of the CCP.

The PROTECT Our Kids Act would prohibit Federal funding for any  elementary or secondary school that continues to host a Confucius  Classroom. Schools will be notified of these requirements and given  guidance for how to comply.

To be clear, this legislation is only concerned with programs funded  or supported by the CCP. Language programs in schools that do not  partner with the CCP are not threatened by this legislation. The only  objective is to prevent CCP propaganda from being taught to our kids.  This should not be controversial.

Mr. Speaker, I will say it again: Protecting our kids from Chinese  propaganda should not be controversial. I urge a ``yes'' vote on this  legislation.