-9999


Mrs. BLACKBURN. We have had quite a feisty afternoon here on the  floor, and I am so pleased that my colleagues have called out some of  the actions that we have witnessed from the other side.

It is beyond me that they would want illegal aliens to vote in U.S.  elections--beyond me. But maybe they don't want to preserve ``one  person, one vote.'' Maybe that is not important to them. It is  important to 80 percent of the American people.

And, you know, they are not wanting to fund DHS, and they are saying:  Oh, it is over ICE. ICE is funded. Their money is going to continue.  But what they are doing, they are defunding FEMA. They are defunding  TSA. So if your flights don't go next week, blame the Democrats.

And this week we had a hearing in Judiciary Committee that looked at  another inappropriate use of the Federal Government's inappropriate  policies. And this week I chaired the first in a series of hearings at  Judiciary Committee that will address Arctic Frost and the Arctic Frost  investigation that targeted President Trump, elected Members of  Congress, including me, and hundreds--hundreds--of conservative groups  and individuals.

Now, the subcommittee I chair is on Privacy, Technology, and the Law.  And we called before us the general counsels--legal representatives  from Verizon, AT&T, and T-Mobile--the three wireless carriers that  received unlawful subpoena requests from Jack Smith to access our phone  records.

Now, what we know--because of whistleblowers--these are people that  work over at DOJ. They are whistleblowers. They saw what was happening,  and they said: This is wrong.

So we know what Mr. Smith was up to. What he and Merrick Garland and  Joe Biden did was to weaponize the U.S. Federal Government to target  President Donald Trump and his allies.

Just days after President Trump announced his 2024 campaign,  President Biden named Jack Smith as special counsel. And with the  approval of the Biden Justice Department, he issued 197 subpoenas to  over 430 conservative organizations and individuals. Among them were  more than a dozen sitting Members of Congress, including me and my  Judiciary Committee colleagues Senators Graham, Lee, Cruz, and Hawley.

Now, the question would be: What does this set of individuals have in  common? What we know is this: We are all Republicans; we all support  President Trump; and each of us had valid questions about the 2020  election.

So here is Jack Smith, who was probably inappropriately appointed as  special counsel. We never took a vote. He didn't have a statute that  allowed him to be the special counsel. But he goes to great lengths to  make certain that we could never find out about this deep invasion of  our privacy and the violation of our constitutional rights. So he went  to an Obama appointee, Judge James Boasberg, who signed nondisclosure  orders--or you may call them a gag order. They did this to ensure that  the subpoenas were going to be kept secret from us.

Now, the basis for the gag orders was this: that notifying the  Members of Congress being spied on could possibly result in destruction  of evidence, intimidation of potential witnesses, serious jeopardy to  the investigation. I am reading that from the gag order. Imagine that.

We also know that Jack Smith's corrupt team of prosecutors consulted  with the Biden DOJ Public Integrity Section about the subpoenas. They  were informed--get this: The Public Integrity Section actually informed  Jack Smith and his group that there was litigation risk for doing this.  Oh, my goodness. That would be a violation of the speech or debate  clause that covers Members of Congress while they are doing their job-- a constitutional defense.

Now, the speech or debate clause gives us broad constitutional  protection from executive branch interference. This is what you call  keeping the executive branch from running over the people's elected  representatives. But the Biden DOJ--they were out for Donald Trump.  They wanted to block him from ever being President. They wanted to go  get him six ways from Sunday. They were after him. So they decided:  Well, there is a risk, but if you put a gag order on it, they are never  going to find out. So let's go ahead. Let's roll the dice, and let's go  for it. Let's abuse their right to privacy. Let's infringe on the  speech or debate clause. Let's get in and tear up the Stored  Communications Act. All because they wanted to go after Donald Trump.

Well, thank God we have whistleblowers, and these whistleblowers over  at DOJ came to Chairman Grassley. He started working on this. And, you  know what, we did find out. We learned that Verizon and T-Mobile  complied with the subpoena request--no questions asked, no concern for  constitutional rights; they just rolled over without a fight.

During yesterday's hearing, we got to ask them: Why did you comply  with these secret, unlawful subpoenas? Did getting a gag order on it  not raise a red flag to you? Why did you do this?

The answer was not satisfactory. The representative for Verizon said  they were aware of the speech or debate clause--good for them--but they  had no system in place to flag subpoena requests for sitting Members of  Congress. But, oh, they say they have learned a lesson. As he put it,  ``Our processes could have been better suited to meet what was a new  and unique set of circumstances.''

Well, you know what, we are turning 250 years old. I don't think the  Constitution is exactly new. I don't think the speech or debate clause  is exactly new. I think their response was actually an understatement.

Verizon utterly failed in its responsibility. So did T-Mobile. In  fact, the company was under a specific contract that required it to  notify the Senate Sergeant at Arms about subpoenas related to Senators.  I think Verizon forgot that.

Yet not a single person at Verizon or any of the carriers lost their  job because of this. I went down the road: Has anyone been fired? The  answer was no and no and no, not a single person.

There has to be accountability. If they can trample on the  constitutional rights of sitting Members of Congress and the President  of the United States, they can do it to every U.S. citizen. We cannot  let this stand.

Arctic Frost marked the worst weaponization of government in American  history--worse than Watergate--and I am determined to make certain that  Jack Smith is held accountable and that no American citizen--no one-- ever is going to face the weaponization of the U.S. Government against  them.