Expressing Support for the Designation of October As the ``National Day of Remembrance for Charlie Kirk''


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Florida for  bringing this resolution forward and for taking the time to honor a  true American patriot Charlie Kirk.

He was a champion for freedom, and he was a role model for millions  of young people across our country.

As my colleague had mentioned, he was a devoted husband to Erika and  an amazing father to his two children. We offer our condolences to his  family.

By adopting my colleague's resolution, this Chamber has an  opportunity to honor the legacy that Charlie is leaving. He believed in  robust, respectful, bipartisan debate. He encouraged you to challenge  your own thoughts and actions; he encouraged you to enter into that  debate, to commit to leaving this country in better shape than you  found it; and, of course, always giving back more than you took.

We are going to miss him desperately. I join many across the country  who are mourning with his family and praying that justice will be  served.

I am grateful to have known him personally, spending hours speaking  with him at Turning Point USA events and watching how Turning Point has  grown, not only into a nationwide but a global movement. He started it  when he was 18 years old.

One of the things that always impressed me was how he managed to stay  in contact, to offer to help to push issues forward, and to lend a hand  no matter how big or small the cause.

Recently, I appreciated hearing from him as I had put some  information forward, and he responded immediately on what a good idea  this was.

I do want to share just one example of his generosity. One of my  grandsons was such a fan of Charlie, and he wanted to start a Turning  Point chapter at his school. The school didn't want to have that  chapter, so my grandson had to find another way, which he did. I texted  Charlie to read him in on the situation, to make him aware. He jumped  in to support my grandson and to thank him for the effort.

My grandson said he really felt like Charlie was rooting for him in  this situation, and I think that is the way every young person felt  when they met him. They felt Charlie was on their side. He wanted the  best for them. He wanted to encourage them, to help them think  critically through issues that matter to our country.

To any young person mourning his loss, I encourage you to honor  Charlie's memory by continuing to support his movement to realize a  conservative, prosperous United States of America.

He believed in hard work and smart work, so honor him by working  hard, by working smart, by looking for those opportunities to be a  leader, to dream those big dreams like Charlie did, and then find a way  to make those dreams come true. That is how you honor his life and  legacy.

We will not allow his life or legacy to be forgotten, and we will not  stop fighting to eradicate the rot of political violence in our Nation  that claimed his life.

I yield to my colleague from Alabama.