Government Funding


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, SNAP benefits have been in the news  and a topic of much discussion, and those benefits for over 40 million  Americans lapsed over the weekend because the Democrats have chosen to  hold government funding hostage for political ``leverage''--their  word--at the American people's expense. In other words, they are using  the American people as pawns. Because of that, their constituents and,  indeed, nearly 700,000 Tennesseans are without their SNAP benefits.

Border Patrol agents, our air traffic controllers, and Federal law  enforcement have been working a month now without pay. This is why you  have the AFGE and the controllers union saying: End the Schumer  shutdown now.

We also know that critical Federal assistance--from rural development  programs to small business loans--is in jeopardy.

Across the country, people and small businesses are all suffering  because of Chuck Schumer and his Schumer shutdown.

And for Democrats--I think they have wanted this. They planned for  it, and they wanted to see it happen, so they got it.

Now, over on the House side, the Democratic whip made it very clear  during a recent interview--and I will quote her. She said:

Shutdowns are terrible, and of course there will be       families that are going to suffer. . . . But it is one of the       few leverage times we have.

So to the American people, realize that the Democrats you have  elected see you as pawns and leverage and pieces that they can move  around a chessboard.

As the Senate Democrat leader said at the beginning of the shutdown,  and I quote him:

Every day gets better for [Democrats].

They see this as improving their political chances.

Over the last month, his party has voted more than a dozen times to  keep the government shut down. At the heart of their demands is the  permanent extension of President Biden's COVID credits under ObamaCare.  This would be a $450 billion expense to the U.S. taxpayer.

Last week, I was on the floor talking about this and about how  Democrats are peddling falsehoods to try to justify their Schumer  shutdown. They claim that ObamaCare subsidies are going to expire. In  reality, it is only the Biden COVID credit bonus that will expire.

What happened during COVID for the ObamaCare subsidies--they took off  the income caps, and a lot of people had zero-dollar premiums. If you  were making over half a million dollars a year, you, too, could get a  Biden COVID credit bonus and subsidy from the ObamaCare exchange and  you, too, could have the U.S. taxpayer picking up the tab for 80 to 90  percent of your health insurance because they plussed up the credit,  and they removed the income caps.

Now, the original ObamaCare subsidies--which, by the way, do not  expire. These are permanent. They are in law. The original subsidies  continue for people who are at 100 to 400 percent of the Federal  poverty level.

Our colleagues across the aisle claim that the Biden COVID credits  are needed to keep the cost of health insurance premiums down. In  reality, ObamaCare is too expensive to afford without the subsidy. So  what they are doing is propping up a broken system.

In fact, since 2013, the ObamaCare benchmark plan premium has  increased by 237 percent--more than three times the rate for employer- sponsored healthcare plans that most Americans get through their work  and from their employer. As these premiums go up, taxpayers are on the  hook to subsidize not the individual but, guess what, the insurance  company. The subsidy doesn't go to the individual; it goes directly to  the insurance company.

Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle need to understand that  their fight for government-run healthcare, which is really what this  entire Schumer shutdown is all about, is going to fail. It is time for  them to put the American people over and before far-left politics. It  is time to reopen the Federal Government.                           Artificial Intelligence

Mr. President, we all are hearing quite a bit about AI and the  potential of AI to transform entire industries for  the better, to make them more efficient.

In Tennessee alone, our advanced manufacturers are using it to become  more efficient, to lower costs, and to increase productivity.  Healthcare providers are using it to strengthen care, and researchers  are using it to discover new treatments. These are all things that are  worth celebrating. They are good, and they are yielding good results,  but we also know that this emerging technology can be used for harm.

In the case of Google, its AI models have targeted conservatives with  defamation for years. During a Senate Commerce Committee hearing last  week, I presented evidence to Google's vice president for government  affairs and public policy that his company's AI models have  repeatedly--repeatedly--fabricated malicious stories about conservative  activist Robby Starbuck. He is a Tennessean, and he is a conservative  leader in our State.

In one instance, Google's large language model, Gemma, falsely  claimed that Starbuck was accused of child rape and that I publicly  defended him. Google's AI models have also falsely accused him of being  a former adult film star, of facing criminal drug charges, and of  shooting a man in Nashville in an argument over a parking spot.

In response, Google's VP claimed that ``hallucinations'' among their  AI models are a common problem and that the company is working on it-- as if this harmful defamation is merely a technical glitch. And they  refer to it as a hallucination.

In fact, there seems to be a pattern of malicious lying and fiction  when it comes to conservatives. So I asked the AI model ``Has Marsha  Blackburn been accused of rape?'' The answer to this question, of  course, is an unequivocal no. I never have. Yet, Gemma fabricated an  entire outlandish criminal allegation against me. It had a massive  story about a rape in 1987, which didn't happen, and accusations of  improper conduct, which did not happen. It also came forward with an  alleged victim. It was all malicious. It was all made up. It was all a  lie. Yet Gemma even generated fake links to fabricated news articles to  support the defamatory claim, and, of course, the links didn't work.

This marks a catastrophic failure of oversight of an AI model that  has been downloaded by more than 200 million people. So last week, I  sent a letter over to Google's CEO Sundar Pichai demanding an  explanation as to why Gemma was creating these false allegations,  criminal allegations, against conservatives and also against me. I also  asked for a list of steps the company is taking to eliminate political  bias and defamatory content from its models. Google has not responded  to my letter. What they did do was take Gemma down over the weekend.

Despite the AI model's serious flaws, the big tech giant said in a  statement that it is going to continue to work to make Gemma available  to their developers.

And the message on this is clear: You need to shut it down. You need  to shut it down completely. You need to shut the Gemini system down  completely.

The American public deserves to know that, with these AI models, the  information is going to be accurate. It is going to be transparent. It  is going to be fair, and it is not going to be a tool that is going to  be used to fabricate and to smear conservatives.

In the meantime, Google has until tomorrow to respond to the letter  demanding answers. And it is important to keep in mind that this is the  same Google that operated a Gmail blacklist that suppressed Republican  fundraising emails as spam, and it is the same Google that manipulated  search results about the 2024 election to benefit Kamala Harris and to  harm President Trump, and it is the same Google that suppressed search  results of the attempted assassination of President Trump in Butler,  PA.

Big Tech has waged a war on conservatives for too long. It is time  that the American people see accountability out of these platforms.