Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, there is an issue that I have spoken  about so often on this floor, and it is one that should concern each  and every one of us; and that is the issue of human trafficking and sex  trafficking that is happening in this country. And what we have learned  is that today in the United States a child is either bought or sold for  sex every 2 minutes. Now, think about that and think about the harm  that is happening to children because of this amount of human  trafficking and sex trafficking.

What we also have learned is that, globally, this has turned into a  $150 billion-a-year business. This is something that we also have  learned affects every town, city, and community in our Nation. It is  pervasive.

In Tennessee, my home State, there were 1,170 reports of human  trafficking through November of last year, and that is according to the  data we have from the Tennessee Bureau of Investigations. Now, that  number was actually down from the number in 2023, which had been 1,432  reports, and that was because of the effort that our Governor, Bill  Lee, the Tennessee General Assembly, and the Tennessee Bureau of  Investigations made into fighting this human trafficking and trying to  bring an end to what truly is modern-day slavery.

But, unfortunately, what we saw as we looked at the data was that  last year's total of 1,170 was still 62 percent higher than the number  in 2019. So as we have looked at this in recent years, what you have  seen is an explosion of human trafficking and sex trafficking in this  country. While we know that human trafficking has been a problem over a  period of time, the concern is this heinous crime and how it has  exploded in the recent past.

Now, there are some reasons and some contributing factors to the  escalation numbers, and one of them is during the Biden administration,  basically they surrendered our southern border to cartels and gangs and  criminals and traffickers. Many of us have been to the border. We saw  what was happening on the border during the Biden years. And as a  result of the inaction that  took place there, every town in this country became a border town, and  every State became a border State. And because of the drugs, because of  the human trafficking, the sex trafficking, the American people  suffered the consequences.

Just this month, earlier this month, authorities charged eight  Venezuelan illegal aliens in Middle, TN, for trafficking women across  our border for the purpose of sexual exploitation. That was eight  Venezuelan illegal aliens. After entering our country illegally, the  criminals conducted their operation out of Nashville motels between  2022 and 2024. And like so many criminal illegals in our country--no  surprise--they are tied to the violent gang Tren de Aragua, which has  plagued cities across this country with organized crime.

All too often these traffickers target not only vulnerable women,  they also target children. According to our TBI data, there were 514  reports of children being sex-trafficked in Tennessee in 2024. That is  1 year, 514 reports. That was more than twice the number of reports of  adult sex trafficking.

The report also notes that there has been an increase in the number  of unaccompanied minors who were trafficked into our country and  exploited. This should come as no surprise. Under Biden, hundreds of  thousands of unaccompanied children have reached our southern border,  while many more arrived with adults who falsely claimed to be their  relatives. Although Biden had a responsibility to place these children  with vetted sponsors, his administration, obviously, did not do that.  We have learned that they lost track of more than 320,000 migrant  children who face the threat of abuse, trafficking, and sexual  exploitation.

Thankfully, after 4 years of failure under the Biden administration,  President Trump is working to secure our border, to protect our  communities, and to bring human trafficking to an end. And there is so  much more that Congress can do to support this effort.

Last week, I introduced the bipartisan GRACIE Act, which would  require the recording of all Child Protective Services interviews with  children and adults. Although 60 percent of child sex trafficking  victims in our country have engaged with the foster care system, too  often CPS staffers miss the signs of abuse. By recording interviews, we  can increase the likelihood that child trafficking victims will be  identified and rescued.

Last month, I also reintroduced a package of bills that will do much  to combat human trafficking. My SAVE Girls Act would provide States,  local governments, and nonprofits with the resources they need to end  the trafficking of young women and girls.

My National Human Trafficking Database Act, meanwhile, would  establish a national human trafficking database at the Department of  Justice and incentivize State law enforcement agencies to report their  data.

To help bring an end to trafficking at the border, I also introduced  the End Child Trafficking Now Act, which would require a DNA test to  determine the relationship between illegal aliens at the border and any  accompanying child. Now, it is so important to note, I have introduced  this bill before, and I did it because during the Trump administration,  there was DNA testing. It was ended during the Biden administration.  They said it took too much time. I inquired about the amount of time.  It took 45 minutes.

What we know from the time we did DNA testing, 30 percent of the  children that were DNA tested by border agents shared no relation to  the illegal aliens who were falsely--falsely--representing themselves  as family members. I think 45 minutes is worth it to save the life of a  child.

And my PRINTS Act, which has been reintroduced, would give Customs  and Border Protection the authority to fingerprint noncitizens under  the age of 14 to combat the horrific practice called child recycling.

Just this week, I also sent a letter to FBI Director Kash Patel and  Attorney General Pam Bondi requesting that they release the complete,  unredacted flight logs from Jeffery Epstein's private jet.

In addition, I also requested Ghislaine Maxwell's little black book  and all video surveillance footage from Epstein's residence in Palm  Beach, FL. After years of stonewalling by former Director Wray, we  still do not have all the necessary information regarding Jeffrey  Epstein's crime, who his associates were, and who was involved in his  global human trafficking and sex trafficking ring. That is information  we need if we are going to bring an end to this practice of human  trafficking and also if we are going to bring justice for the women and  children that were abused and trafficked during these human trafficking  and sex trafficking rings.

It is past time to bring this practice to an end. With these efforts,  we can provide this administration with the tools they need in order to  bring an end to this practice.