Unanimous Consent Requests--The Calendar


Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, we heard so much over the weekend from  Tennesseans who were reaching out, just so saddened by the series of  truly devastating attacks we saw in Syria. Two of our National Guard  members from Iowa lost their lives. Indeed, we know that right now,  President Trump and Senators Grassley and Ernst are out at Dover to  meet with those families. These are two that were killed by an ISIS  gunman.

At Brown University, a gunman shot and killed two students that were  in a session as they prepared for exams right there on the college  campus. One of those was a young woman from Alabama who was vice  president of the college Republican Club; another was an aspiring  neurosurgeon. These are two young people who had very bright and  promising futures in front of them.

In Australia, two terrorists opened fire on a Hanukkah celebration.  They murdered 15 people, including a 10-year old girl and a Holocaust  survivor.

We know that anti-Semitism is a sickness. It is spreading across the  globe, and world leaders must do more to protect their Jewish  communities.

Our Nation's prayers remain with all of these victims and with their  families and those that experience these tragedies.

We can all be grateful that, in Donald J. Trump, we have a President  who is committed to serving that justice when it is needed. Terrorism  will not have the last word.

And we have seen how the FBI has worked to thwart these plots that  are taking place here in our country. They announced, on Monday, that  agents had thwarted a New Year's Eve terror plot that was planned for  Los Angeles by a pro-Palestine extremist group. The four suspects are  now in Federal custody, and we know they will face the full force of  the law.

God bless the men and women in Federal law enforcement and in our  armed services who are really working around the clock to restore  safety and security here in our country.

Under President Trump, we have seen that national security has become  a  priority. In fact, when we look back over the last year, one theme  sticks out about the administration's accomplishments is that President  Trump is keeping his word. He is making America safer and stronger than  ever before.

You can look at the southern border. In a matter of months, President  Trump completely fixed the Biden border crisis. The President was right  when he said we didn't need more laws. We just needed a new President,  one who would enforce the laws.

In October, there were just over 11,000 apprehensions at the southern  border. The same month last year, in 2024, there were over 100,000  encounters at the border, and that was under the Biden border policy.  Now, even the year before that, there were 240,000 encounters. Think  about that: from 240,000 down to 100,000, down to 11,000. And what  changed was the fact that we had a President who was enforcing the law.

Now, also in my wonderful State of Tennessee, Memphis saw the highest  crime rate per capita in 2024. But since September, the  administration's Memphis Safe Task Force has made more than 4,200  arrests, including hundreds of warrant arrests for domestic violence,  aggravated assault; and dozens more for narcotics, sexual assault, and  homicide. They also have located more than 120 missing children and  have recovered 970 illegal firearms and 560 stolen vehicles.

With President Trump and AG Bondi and Kash Patel, and the commitment  that they have made to Memphis, this is what you are seeing. Criminals  are being apprehended, and the citizens in Memphis feel safe to go out  and about. The crime rate has been cut in half. President Trump is  replicating the success we are seeing in Memphis. He is replicating  this all across the country, whether it is here in Washington, DC, or  in Oregon and in other areas.

And around the globe, President Trump has restored peace through  strength, after years of weakness from the Biden administration. We  have to note, when we talk about globally, what he has done--ending  eight wars, making the world a safer place not only for Americans but  for so many.

Across the government, President Trump has also rooted out woke  programs that abused taxpayer dollars under the previous  administration. And we saw a lot of corruption in our institutions.  With these programs, the Biden administration pushed a radical anti- American agenda, and now, with the Trump administration, we are  restoring common sense and putting the American citizens first.

On the economy, the President's pro-growth and pro-worker agenda is  already delivering. Since its peak under Biden, inflation is down 67  percent. Of course, we all remember, under Biden, it was at a 40-year  high. And now that has come down 67 percent, and it will continue to  come down.

The trade deficit is shrinking. Our Nation is bringing in trillions  of dollars in new investments, and this is going to create new  factories, jobs, and opportunities.

Mr. President, we are so pleased that some of those jobs are coming  into Tennessee. Some of those investments are coming into our State.

And the President has focused on making American energy dominant once  again. We were pleased to see that, in his first few days in office, he  eliminated a lot of the Green New Deal. And because of that, the  national average for a gallon of gas is at its lowest price since March  of 2021.

He has also signed Executive orders to support nuclear energy,  including speeding up approvals for new reactors and strengthening fuel  supply chains. And more than any other State, Tennessee is best  positioned to lead our Nation's nuclear renaissance, especially with  the work that is being done at the Oak Ridge National Lab and at our  universities. I will remind my colleagues that our nuclear energy  industry had its birth at the Oak Ridge National Lab, in Tennessee.

We also have the Clinch River site, which should soon be home to the  Nation's first small modular reactor. And taking advantage of this  opportunity, the Tennessee Valley Authority has got to step up, and  they have to lead the way.

This week, the Senate is set to confirm four of the President's  nominees to serve on TVA's Board of Directors and ensure that Tennessee  and our Nation do lead in nuclear energy.

Supporting all of these accomplishments is the One Big Beautiful  Bill, or the working families tax cut bill. This is something that was  signed into law on Independence Day. And in that legislation was the  largest tax cut in history, of $4 trillion, including no tax on tips  and overtime and Social Security, a provision I have worked to achieve  for years; historic funding to finish the border wall; $50 billion to  support rural health; permitting reforms to make it easier to build in  America again; a generational investment in our military; and I could  go on and on.

And in the last year, this administration, with President Trump and  Republicans, has been hard at work to make certain that we address the  cost of living, that we address safety in our Nation and around the  globe, and to improve the quality of life in a stronger, freer, and  safer country than ever before.