Condemning the Attacks on Minnesota Lawmakers in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota, and Calling for Unity and the Rejection of Political Violence in Minnesota and Across the United States


Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor two incredible  Minnesotans and friends who were taken from us too soon: Speaker  Melissa Hortman and her husband, Mark Hortman.

We lost Melissa and Mark two weekends ago in an unthinkable,  politically motivated attack that also threatened the lives of State  Senator John Hoffman; his wife, Yvette; and their daughter, Hope.

Like many Minnesotans, I have struggled to come to terms with this  tragedy and to make sense of it, but I found comfort in community and  in sharing stories of my friends, Melissa and Mark.

Today, I will remember the Hortmans for the people that they were and  the legacy that they will leave behind. Anyone who knew Melissa and  Mark knew that, together, they were a force for good. Melissa was a  dedicated public servant, and both she and her husband devoted their  lives to improving the lives of Minnesotans.

Personally, Melissa and I shared a love of golden retrievers. We  often exchanged stories and photos of our beloveds. She adored her  golden retriever, Gilbert, and he adored her.

Professionally, I had the privilege of working with Melissa over the  years and watching her excel as speaker of the Minnesota House of  Representatives. I had always admired her work and her ability to work  across the aisle and make tough decisions when she needed to. She was a  true leader, and she led by example.

Recently, Melissa had to take a tough vote that she personally didn't  agree with, but it was the best deal that she could get. In my last  conversation with her, I told her that I was proud of her. I was proud  of her leadership. Standing here today, I am so glad that I did.

It is still difficult to comprehend the violent attacks on the  Hortmans and Hoffmans, but what I do know is that we got here, in part,  because of our divisive rhetoric that we have allowed to seep into our  politics and into our communities.

It will take our entire community coming together. We must hold  ourselves and each other accountable. It is the only way forward, and  it is how we honor the legacy of Melissa and Mark.