Congratulating Chief Jeff Tate on His Retirement


Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate my friend, Chief  Jeff Tate, on his retirement after 28 years with the Shakopee Police  Department. Chief Tate is a dedicated public servant and model for  community first policing.

Under his leadership, the Shakopee PD launched Minnesota's first-ever  police recovery assistance program in 2015. The Shakopee Police  Recovery Assistance Program (RAP) provides people in active addiction  with scholarship money to seek treatment and has served dozens of  Minnesotans since its inception.

Chief Tate's work to address the addiction crisis extends well beyond  Minnesota. In 2023, he became one of eleven officers to join the Public  Safety Council for the Police Assisted Addiction and Recovery  Initiative (PAARI), helping spread the importance of this work across  the country. Last year, he received recognition from PAARI and was  presented with the ``Leadership Award for Advocacy and Community''.

I first met Chief Tate after becoming the Congresswoman for  Minnesota's 2nd Congressional District in 2019. Over the years, I've  sought guidance from Chief Tate, especially on topics related to law  enforcement, community policing, mental health and addiction. I have  also had the honor of working with him through my Mental Health and  Substance Use Disorder Advisory Council, where his insights have been  invaluable.

Chief Tate's compassionate approach to policing is respected and  recognized by his peers. He has won numerous awards including the MN  Chiefs of Police Association ``President's Award'' and the MN  Department of Public Safety's ``Distinguished Public Leadership  Award''. Last year, Mothers Against Drunk Driving awarded Chief Tate  and the Shakopee PD their ``Outstanding Law Enforcement Agency Award''.

I am grateful for Chief Tate's public service and share his love of  country music--especially Garth Brooks. His impact in Shakopee and  across Minnesota will be felt for generations to come. I wish Chief  Tate the best in retirement.