Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I want to start my remarks by saying to  the people of Massachusetts and families all across the country: Many  of you are making big sacrifices--quarantining yourselves, postponing  or canceling major events, dealing with closed schools and daycare. We  are grateful. 

  Right now, our primary goal needs to be to slow the spread of this  virus, and we all share in that responsibility. So we thank you for  everything you are doing to keep your loved ones and everyone else's  loved ones safe at this time. 

  We are at war with the coronavirus, and we need a massive wartime  manufacturing mobilization for coronavirus testing kits and personal  protective equipment for medical personnel and emergency responders.  That is why, last weekend, I was the first to call on President Trump  to immediately use existing authorities under the Defense Production  Act to bring all of the power of the Federal Government to bear in  mobilizing industry to meet this crisis. It is why I authored the  Senate resolution calling on him to do so. It is why I spoke directly  to Vice President Pence yesterday to urge the administration to take  this critical action, and I am glad they are doing so. 

  The Defense Production Act allows the Federal Government to direct  supplies of critical materials and equipment that our hospitals and  first responders need. It allows us to mobilize industry to expand  production and gives us the power to coordinate industry to respond to  this crisis. We need to fully use all of those powers that are provided  under this law.  

  That is why I am so glad President Trump has today invoked the power  of the Defense Production Act to respond to the coronavirus crisis. I  am glad he is exercising it. I am glad that after my conversation  yesterday with Vice President Pence, they decided to put this on the  agenda for our country. 

  We need to massively increase private production of the lifesaving  personal protective equipment, medical supplies and devices, and  diagnostic testing supplies we need to combat this viral enemy. We need  to activate our capable and talented domestic industry and bring the  full weight of the Federal Government behind this effort. 

  We are talking about gowns, gloves, face shields, surgical masks, N95  respirators, ventilators, disinfectant wipes, and hand sanitizers. We  do not have nearly enough of this lifesaving equipment. 

  For instance, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services  estimates that the United States could need up to 3.5 billion  respirator masks. Let me say that again. Our own Department of Health  and Human Services says that we could need upwards of 3.5 billion  respirator masks. But our strategic national stockpile, the country's  emergency medical supply bank, holds only a tiny fraction of that, just  12 million respirator masks--not 3.5 billion but 12 million. 

  The medical community calls this personal protective equipment  ``PPE,'' but ``PPE'' also stands for a ``promise to protect everyone,''  and this is a promise we should make and keep for our hospital  personnel, first responders, and patients. Invoking the powers of the  Defense Production Act will help ensure that we can keep this promise  to our American heroes who are on the frontlines of battling this  epidemic. 

  I have been in regular contact with the Massachusetts Health and  Hospital Association and the Massachusetts Nurses Association, and both  have issued a terrible alarm: There are insufficient medical equipment  and supplies to test and treat affected individuals and protect  healthcare workers and first responders. For example, the Berkshire  hospital told me that they required 3,500 respirator masks a day. That  is 35,000 in just 10 days for the Berkshire hospital, which is in the  least populated part of our State--for just that one smaller hospital.  Yet the entire State of Massachusetts recently received only 70,000 of  these respirator masks. That is not nearly enough. We do not want our  nurses and our doctors reusing or rationing masks. 

  Additionally, hospitals and labs across the Nation are trying to ramp  up testing capacity but face shortages in test kits and supplies. But  we need to dramatically scale up testing and ensure our continued  ability to test. Our Nation must be able to conduct tens or hundreds of  thousands of tests daily, ultimately testing millions of people over  the course of our response. That means producing swabs, which we are  now running short of, and other testing materials. 

  We have used the Defense Production Act before--during the Korean  war--to mobilize defense infrastructure and during the Cold War. Make  no mistake, we are facing an equally deadly enemy in this virus, and we  need to bring all of our authority and resources to bear to defeat it. 

  All of us owe a debt of gratitude to our frontline health and medical  care workforce. They don't have a roadmap for what is happening right  now. It is unprecedented. They just have skills, a commitment, and the  hearts of heroes. We owe them the resources they need to be protected  in order to do their jobs. 

  Sadly, this pandemic is going to get worse before it gets better. I  had been calling for the President to declare a national emergency,  which he finally did last week. Now that he has done so, we need  Massachusetts to get all of the funding that is due. I have been in  regular contact with Governor Baker and Mayor Walsh, and I will support  their requests for Federal resources. 

  As the Senate works on an economic relief package that matches the  scale of this crisis, we need to ensure that we put people and family  first--no half measures, no hidden bailouts and giveaways just to big  corporations: paid sick time for all workers; unemployment insurance  for all workers, including for tipped workers, gig workers,  contractors, home workers; expansion of SNAP, WIC, and other food  security programs; no evictions, no cutting off of utilities, no  cutting off of Wi-Fi; halting all deportations and releasing of  detained immigrants who pose no threat to public safety; provide free  Wi-Fi to low-income households with students who cannot afford it but  are going to be at home because of school closures so that we don't  have a huge homework gap that now explodes in our country, as poorer  children don't have access to the Wi-Fi technology at home, so they can  learn at the same pace that kids who just happen to live in wealthier  families will have. We cannot allow that to happen. These kids should  be able to learn at home, regardless of their income. We need free Wi- Fi for those kids. We have to reimburse our States and cities and  Tribes. They are bearing the brunt of this crisis, and they need  resources immediately. 

  My commitment to protecting the health professionals, ensuring the  consumers, workers, and families of Massachusetts get relief from the  impacts of the coronavirus is my No. 1 priority. We have to protect the  small businesses in our country. We have to make sure they receive the  resources they need. Millions and millions of small businesses right  now are feeling enormous stress. We have to make it possible for them  to receive the relief they need, the help they need in order to  survive, and we have to put upfront whatever the capacity is to make  sure they get the resources they need. If that system in our country,  where 48 percent of all workers are employed--small businesses in our  country--and they are living on the margin, then we are going to have  an economic catastrophe by August or September where millions of these  small businesses will just declare bankruptcy. That is the bottom-line  economic fact of the matter. We have to give them help, and we have to  make sure we have the resources inside the Federal Government--the  personnel--that will ensure we can deliver that relief too. 

  To the people of Massachusetts, I want you to know I am here for you,  and I will help any of you individually who need any assistance during  this emergency. This current moment may call for distancing and  isolation, but we cannot and should not sever our basic human  connections to one another because we are all in this together. 

  I want to end with the most important remark. We must continue to  listen to the guidance of scientists and medical professionals. This  pandemic is unprecedented and will require an unprecedented  mobilization and response at every level of society. We can get through  this, but it will require a commitment from every single one of us. We  are one big family in the United States. Many families are going to be  suffering. It is going to be our job to make sure that we protect those  families, and it is the job of this institution to do so. We are the  legislative first responders. We are the ones who have to provide the  resources that then allow the first responders, the families in every  community across our country to have the resources to help everyone in  our society. That is our goal. 

  A pandemic should know no partisanship. Let us come together and  produce the big package our country right now so desperately needs. 

  With that, I yield back. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT