Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I just want to first say that I agree with  everything the Senator from New Jersey just said, and I think it is  important to heed his message, because as of this afternoon, we are  officially facing a global pandemic. 

  The coronavirus pandemic has spread to more than 100 countries around  the world. The World Health Organization has declared it a pandemic.  The economic repercussions have taken on a global dimension. This is  also a virus that is impacting Americans on a very personal dimension. 

  Massachusetts residents are worried about keeping their children,  their families, and themselves safe. Day to day, even hour to hour,  there is a lot of uncertainty during this public health emergency. Will  I be able to work? Will I be able to get medical care? Will I be able  to pay the mortgage or the rent? 

  There is one thing I want my constituents to know for certain. I  share your concern for your loved ones, and your safety is my top  priority. We need our response to this emergency to match the  seriousness of the crisis. 

  I commend the Governors and mayors across this country who have  stepped up and provided leadership to their constituents, including  Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker, who has wisely and swiftly  declared a state of emergency in Massachusetts, and our great mayor of  Boston, Martin Walsh, who has led early on this issue to make sure that  we deal with this crisis.  

  We need that leadership more than ever because we are seeing a  dangerous complete abdication of leadership from Donald Trump. His  mismanagement of this crisis is unconscionable. It is immoral, and the  harm it is causing the American people is an injustice. The Trump  administration has let this crisis spin out of control. 

  President Trump has repeatedly said the risk is low and minimized the  implications of the disease, even saying that Americans are unlikely to  die from an infection. But just today, Dr. Tony Fauci, Director of the  National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the Nation's  leading expert on infectious diseases, explained that coronavirus is 10  times more lethal than the flu. The administration overruled health  officials who wanted to recommend that the elderly and physically  fragile Americans be advised not to fly. 

  Trump has called efforts to draw attention to the real risk of  coronavirus, the new Democrat-created ``hoax.'' Just today, it is being  reported that the White House has ordered top officials to treat top- level coronavirus meetings as classified, further hampering information  sharing in our response to this virus. 

  We saw what a lack of transparency, misinformation, and denial did in  China with the spread of this virus. We cannot allow that to happen in  the United States of America. The bottom line: Families need clear,  nonbiased, accurate, and reassuring information. They need it from  public health officials. They need it from their elected leaders. There  should be no partisanship in pandemics. 

  The President and his administration have undermined science and our  scientists. We have the best scientists in the world. We must put their  expertise to work to solve this challenge. We have shown that we can do  that. Congress came together and quickly passed $8.3 billion in  emergency funding to respond to this crisis, but we can do much more. 

  First, the President should immediately declare the coronavirus  pandemic an emergency under the Stafford Act. That direction would  allow FEMA to access over $42 billion in disaster relief funds and  support States and communities directly as they deal with the spread of  this virus. I am officially calling on President Trump to do that  today: Declare this an emergency under the Stafford Act. Free up the  FEMA money of $42 billion in disaster relief so that we can work on  this issue right now, dealing with it in a way that reflects the  seriousness of the threat. The President should act today.  

  Second, we need widespread and free coronavirus testing and  affordable treatment for all. 

  Third, we need to increase the Federal Medicaid assistance  percentage. This would increase the amount of Federal dollars that go  into Medicaid, immediately pumping more resources into States to deal  with this health crisis. We did this during the great recession as a  way to assist States in providing medical care. We should do it again,  and I will be introducing legislation to accomplish that. 

  Fourth, we need to ensure paid sick leave for our workers. We need to  pass Senator Patty Murray's legislation to provide an additional 14  days' sick leave immediately in the event of any public health  emergency, including the current coronavirus crisis. 

  Fifth, we need to enhance unemployment insurance and expand and  support programs like SNAP and Women, Infants, and Children and school  lunch and other initiatives to support food security. Banks should  suspend payments on mortgages for those struggling with the economic  impacts of this crisis, and we should provide rental assistance for  those who need it. 

  Sixth, we need to protect consumers, and that includes shielding them  from scams and price gouging, which I called on Amazon to do. Amazon  took action by removing bad actors from the site who were charging  upwards of $400 for hand sanitizer. No one should be allowed to reap a  windfall from fear and human suffering. 

  We need to provide clear guidance on protections for frontline health  workers and access to needed protective equipment. In a pandemic, our  healthcare workers are heroes, but these heroes need help. We have to  make sure they get the protective gear they need. 

  The coronavirus is not the first and it will not be the last  biothreat the United States faces. That is why I have introduced  legislation that provides $1 billion for research into a universal  coronavirus vaccine that prevents the next biothreat that would come in  the form of a coronavirus. They morph into different types of  coronaviruses. We have to plan for the future. We need to find a  universal coronavirus vaccine now, and we have to fund it, which is why  I am asking for $1 billion for that solution to be found. 

  Sadly, the reality is that this pandemic is going to get worse before  it gets better. But this is our call, and this is our time to come  together. We all have a responsibility to act, to show leadership, and  to support those who are most vulnerable and will be most impacted by  this virus. The elderly in nursing homes, our young children, the  uninsured, the undocumented--they need our help right now. These are  the lives to be saved, livelihoods to be protected, and futures to  ensure. 

  I will continue to work with my colleagues and fight for legislation  that provides Massachusetts residents and businesses and those all  across our country with the resources they need. I urge all of my  colleagues to join me in this commitment to action. 

  With that, I yield back. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT