Duckworth, Durbin Join Markey and Colleagues to Introduce Legislation to Ensure All Students Have Access to Internet during Coronavirus Pandemic


Senators Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) joined Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer (D-NY), Ranking Member Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Senators Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Brian Schatz (D-HI) and 37 colleagues to introduce the Emergency Educational Connections Act, legislation aimed at ensuring all K-12 students have adequate home internet connectivity and devices during the coronavirus pandemic. The bill is the Senate companion to legislation recently introduced by Congresswoman Grace Meng (NY-06), but makes one important change: increasing the appropriation from $2 billion to $4 billion. Education groups had originally identified the $2 billion figure believing the crisis would last only through this academic year. As more educators have come to realize the crisis could last far longer, need has only increased. 

 

"As a parent currently homeschooling my five-year-old with the help of online learning, I understand how critical it is to have a strong and reliable internet connection," said Duckworth. "No student--no matter where they live or their socioeconomic situation--should fall behind in the classroom because they can't get high-speed internet. I'm proud to join my colleagues on this important legislation to close the "homework gap' and support education for kids everywhere during these challenging times."

 

"As kitchen tables become classrooms, we must minimize the disruptions students are facing as they finish the school year online. That begins by addressing the digital divide and ensuring that every student, regardless of income-level or zip code, has proper access to reliable internet and devices to help them stay connected to their educational goals," said Durbin. "The Emergency Educational Connections Act is a step forward in closing that digital divide and providing students with the resources to succeed academically."

 

"We cannot allow the "homework gap' to become a larger "learning gap' during the coronavirus pandemic." said Markey. "Without immediate action by Congress, and $4 billion in E-Rate funding, the students of low-income families, immigrants, communities of color and rural areas are at risk of being left behind. I am proud to lead xx of my colleagues to introduce Emergency Educational Connections Act, which will make sure all students in America have the connectivity they need. I will fight to make sure this essential legislation is included in any future coronavirus relief package."

 

The coronavirus pandemic has shone a bright light on the "homework gap" experienced by the 12 million students in this country who do not have internet access at home and are unable to complete their homework. Research has shown that the homework gap affects students in both rural and urban areas and disproportionately affects lower-income students and students of color. Students without internet access at home consistently score lower in reading, math, and science. This existing inequity is being exacerbated during the current public health emergency as schools suspend in-person classes and transition to remote learning over the internet to protect the health of students, faculty and staff.