Federal CARES Act Grants Awarded To Massachusetts State And Regional Transit Agencies


U.S. Representative Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), joined U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), and U.S. Representatives Richard E. Neal (D-MA-01), James P. McGovern (D-MA-02), William Keating (D-MA-09), Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA-04), Katherine Clark (D-MA-05), Seth Moulton (D-MA-06), Ayanna Pressley (D-MA-07) and Lori Trahan (D-MA-04) to announce that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has awarded Massachusetts state and regional transit authorities a total of $863,556,013 in federal grants under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.

This federal funding, which will support capital, operating, and other expenses to prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID-19, was awarded to the following transit authorities:

Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) - $827,700,000Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDOT) - $12,600,000Metrowest Regional Transit Authority (MWRTA) - $6,700,000Berkshire Regional Transit Authority (BRTA) - $5,700,000Montachusett Regional Transit Authority (MART) - $5,500,000Worcester Regional Transit Authority (WRTA) - $5,000,000Lowell Regional Transit Authority (LRTA) - $356,013"Throughout this pandemic, our MBTA and Commuter Rail transit personnel have continued their work as essential employees and kept our transportation systems functioning despite the health risks," said Rep. Lynch.  "I am glad to see MassDOT and the MBTA receive these grants that will help provide the necessary equipment, resources and services to protect the health and safety of their workers and passengers as we begin to gradually open our economy."

"Massachusetts' public transit agencies are critical to our workers and our local and regional economies and they need our support in this time of crisis," said Senator Warren. "This new federal funding is a lifeline for our transportation systems as they work to preserve jobs and continue serving the Commonwealth's commuters-and I'll keep working to ensure they have the resources they need to get through this pandemic."

"Our public transit agencies are vital arteries for travel and commerce throughout Massachusetts," said Senator Markey. "This emergency relief will ensure that families and workers can return to work and school after the crisis, while also preserving good-paying jobs in our transportation systems. I am proud to have helped secure this essential funding. As Congress debates the next relief package, I will continue to fight for our public transit agencies, riders, and workers."

"Access to safe, reliable transportation is important in all communities, but it takes an even more crucial role in rural ones," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "The funding that will support the Berkshire Regional Transit Authority will allow folks who rely on its services to continue to do so, despite the challenges brought forth by this pandemic." 

"The Worcester and Montachusett Regional Transit Authorities are a lifeline for so many people here in Worcester County - including essential workers who we are all relying on right now," said Congressman McGovern. "I'm glad that these grants are being distributed, but there is much more work to be done, and I will continue working to ensure that regional transit authorities have the resources they need to continue to serve riders and protect employees."

"The internal transportation systems on Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket are critical to residents and visitors alike," said Congressman Bill Keating. "We're pleased to see that these vital services on our Islands are going to receive funds to continue and improve their operations."

"Equitable regional transit will be critical to our community recovery efforts as we begin to rebuild our local economies," said Congressman Joe Kennedy III. "With this grant funding we can not only keep our local transit authorities afloat today, but help them prepare for a new reality of increased safety measures."

"Our Massachusetts transit agencies and the workers who make them run are on the frontlines of the coronavirus crisis, helping to protect other essential workers as they get to work and come home safe," said Congresswoman Clark. "These federal dollars are necessary to help our transit workers accomplish that mission safely and bolster our efforts to keep the dozens of communities they serve, from Framingham to Waltham to Revere, healthy." 

"Transit workers are putting themselves in harm's way to get emergency responders, health care professionals, and other essential workers to the frontlines," Rep. Seth Moulton said. "This round of MBTA and MassDOT grants reinforces their role as an essential service, it's only the first step. I'll keep fighting for transit workers and everyone else."

"Our transit systems are critical to the mobility and connectedness of our communities and our commonwealth, and we must make sure they have the support they need to weather this crisis," said Congresswoman Pressley. "This new funding is an important step in ensuring the MBTA and transit systems across Massachusetts have the financial resources they need to continue serving our communities during and after this crisis, and that frontline transit workers have the protections they need to stay healthy and safe."

"Public transportation workers have continued to show up every day on the front lines of this pandemic to deliver essential services for many of the most vulnerable in our communities. I'm proud to announce this funding, which will prove pivotal in efforts to keep these heroes and their passengers safe," said Congresswoman Lori Trahan.

More information on FTA's grant programs under the CARES Act is available at https://www.transit.dot.gov/cares-act.