Letter to the Hon. Nancy Pelosi, House Speaker, Kevin McCarthy, House Minority Leader, Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and Charles Schumer, Senate Minority Leader of the United States Congress - As Low-Income Communities Struggle, Harris Pushes for Recurring Monthly Payments


Dear Speaker Pelosi, Leader McCarthy, Leader McConnell, and Leader Schumer,

We write to ask that you center those most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic by prioritizing recurring direct cash assistance to all as part of a fourth coronavirus response bill. Providing recurring monthly payments is the most efficient mechanism for delivering economic relief to those most at-risk in this crisis, particularly low-income communities, gig and service workers, and our immigrant neighbors. The inclusion of direct assistance in the CARES Act was an important first step, but we must provide workers and families with relief that actually matches the need and scale of this economic and health crisis.

The CARES Act provided a multi-year bail out for large companies, but it provided most American families with only a few months' worth of assistance, at best. Even before the COVID-19 pandemic claimed millions of jobs, nearly 40% of Americans reported not having enough cash to cover a $400 unexpected expense. Without ongoing and robust direct payments lasting at least the duration of this crisis, we will fail to address the pain our communities are experiencing from this crisis. Additionally, other developed nations have already proven that sufficient, recurring economic relief is possible.

We know that low-income people are disproportionately at risk of being uninsured or underinsured and lack the resources to prepare and protect themselves against the COVID-19 pandemic. That means a rent increase, an additional childcare bill, a tuition check, or even a blown tire can upset a family's ability to stock their pantry or seek necessary medical care. It is important that we lift-up unbanked and underbanked communities by creating a buffer for people who have seen their costs of living rise for decades as their wages have stagnated. Providing recurring payments to everyone in America would help cushion the blows of this global health crisis while chipping away at underlying economic inequalities.

Simply put--people need more money in their pockets, and sending monthly payments to workers and families is the fastest and most direct way to address that need. Now is not a time for timid solutions. In the face of an unprecedented moment in economic history and public health, we need to offer bigger, bolder and far more aggressive policies. We thank you for your partnership on these critical issues and look forward to addressing this crisis with the moral clarity and sense of urgency it requires.

Sincerely,