Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - Mass. Lawmakers Seek Federal Assistance for Cranberry Growers Amid Coronavirus Pandemic


Dear Secretary Perdue:

I write to you in regards to the Department of Agriculture's (USDA) efforts to assist theUnited States cranberry industry during the economic collapse caused by the coronavirus disease2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. We ask you to provide direct, financial assistance to theseessential farmers, as well as Section 32 purchases of surplus cranberry products including juice. Importantly, as the impact of this emergency is fully felt in the months to come, we ask that youutilize all programs at USDA to assist.

Press reports have stated that, "Like many small businesses, farms could feel devastatingeffects of the pandemic" and that "farms and ranches that sell locally could see a decline in salesof as much as $688.7 million." Additionally, reports show that while the recently passedCoronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act includes "$9.5 billion forfarmers," it is "up to the Department of Agriculture to distribute it among livestock producers,specialty crop producers and those who sell at farmers markets."

Throughout the past decade, the price of cranberries has dropped approximately morethan 50% due to overproduction.5 Additionally, the industry has suffered from China's 40%tariff on some cranberry products in 2018.

In fact, news reports show that in Massachusetts, inthe months before the pandemic, "A cranberry industry that was riding high only a few years ago is now being buffeted by an oversupply of fruit and the closure of some international marketsamid a trade war. Many growers are losing money."

As of 2015, the value of Massachusetts' cranberry industry was $99.8 million andsupported nearly 7,000 jobs.8 While the COVID-19 pandemic continues to threaten jobs andlocal economies across the country, with some economist reportedly expecting that "by the endof the month, more than 20 million people will have been thrown out of work, pushing theunemployment rate toward 15 percent," it is critical that our cranberry growers have theresources they need to keep staff employed on local farms.

Given the recent economic hardships of the cranberry industry, particularly inMassachusetts, I urge you to take action to ensure that the USDA considers the unique and diresituation of cranberry growers in the administration's economic response to COVID-19.

Thank you in advance for your consideration of this important issue.Sincerely,