Letter to Timothy Conner, Division Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Mary Clague SBIR Program Director, Kelly Wright Director, Technology Partnerships Office, Dr. Edward Metz Program Manager, Institute of Education Sciences, Dr. Manny Oliver SBIR Program Director, Molly Walsh Director, OUSD, (R&E) Small Business and Technology Partnerships, Matt McMahon Director, SEED Office, John Pucci SBIR Program Manager, Rachael Sack DOT SBIR Program Director, April Richards SBIR Program Manager, Jenn Gustetic SBIR Program Executive, and Andrea Belz Division Director of Industrial Innovation and Partnerships - Senators Markey, Risch, and Shaheen Call for Coordinated Small Business-led Research on Coronavirus


Dear Dr. Conner,

We are writing to participating agencies in the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs to encourage coordination and ensure participation in federal research related to the COVID-19 response. The SBIR/STTR programs are some of America's most successful tools at fostering cutting-edge research. Through these programs, we can harness the power of innovation against this pandemic by enlisting small businesses in the fight.

Across the United States, workers, families, and businesses are mobilizing to respond to this crisis. Although larger industry will play a vital role in these efforts, small businesses are ready, willing, and more than able to support this response with their own novel ideas and research. As the pandemic continues to highlight vulnerabilities in many critical supply chains, it also highlights how the SBIR/STTR programs will play a critical role in building future resiliency into those same systems. To those participating agencies that have already shifted or created new focus areas in response to the coronavirus health and economic crisis, we say thank you, and we encourage all participating agencies to do so to the maximum extent possible.

Further, the 38-year history of SBIR/STTR programs has provided your agencies and the United States with an archive of pioneering research-and-development ideas that we should fully consider as we strive to meet the new challenges posed by COVID-19. Previous research -- from all corners of the programs' history -- could find new or enhanced applicability in coronavirus-related fields. A coordinated effort across agencies should focus on identifying previous research that may be relevant in addressing some of the difficulties we now face.

The more than $3 billion in research funding you collectively have at your disposal can be anincredibly powerful tool in our fight against the coronavirus. Our country needs your continueddedication to all levels of research, especially at this time. We look forward to working with you on behalf of small businesses across the country.

Sincerely,