Letter to President Donald Trump - Mass. Lawmakers Urge Trump Administration to Fully Fund COVID-19 Response for Tribal Nations in Massachusetts


Dear President Trump:We thank you again for approving the Commonwealth of Massachusetts's request for amajor disaster declaration due to the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.Thank you, as well, for your COVID-19--related emergency declarations for each of the twofederally recognized tribal nations in Massachusetts: the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head(Aquinnah), and the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe. As we have noted in a previous letter to you,4the response to the pandemic is unlike anything the Commonwealth or our nation hasexperienced in modern times, and the need for additional resources to combat this crisis growswith each passing day. These needs are also felt acutely by the two federally recognized tribalnations in Massachusetts, which are being stretched extremely thin in order to provide crucialservices to their citizens. Given the challenges that COVID-19 and its fallout are creating for theWampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) and the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe, we ask you todirect the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to waive the traditional cost sharerequirements for all COVID-19--related assistance.

In early April, both Chairman Cedric Cromwell of the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe andChairwoman Cheryl Andrews-Maltais of the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) wroteto you, on behalf of their tribal nations, to request waivers from any cost share and to request thatFEMA increase its federal cost share to 100%. Unlike states, tribal nations do not have a tax baseto help cover the cost of services to their citizens. As Chairwoman Andrews-Maltais mentionedin her letter to you, "Our Tribe relies exclusively upon our annual federal funding and a fewgrants to offer the direct services we provide." Chairman Cromwell made a similar point, noting that the emergency costs will create "an untenable situation, and is currently causing our Tribe toforego desperately-needed requests for resources."

As a result, unforeseen expenses like those associated with an emergency of thismagnitude impose a significant financial hardship on tribal nations, which could in turn precludetheir implementing emergency measures as fully as they would if they had more resourcesavailable. It is in everyone's best interest--the tribal nations, their citizens, their neighbors,emergency personnel at all levels of government, and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts--that the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) and the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe begiven as much flexibility as possible to pursue their emergency response. A 100% federal costshare for the two tribal nations will help accomplish that. As the National Congress of AmericanIndians (NCAI) and a coalition of other organizations noted in a letter to you, the non-federalcost share has "prevented many tribal nations from taking essential actions such as orderinglifesaving supplies, hiring emergency management personnel, and reaching out to FEMA forassistance."

In addition, the federal government has trust and treaty obligations to tribal nations,including the federally recognized tribal nations in Massachusetts. NCAI and the coalition wrote:"The match requirement is inconsistent with the federal government's obligations to tribalnations and their citizens."8 We agree. The federal government ought to provide COVID-19--related assistance while allowing for the tribal nations to endure as little hardship as possible.

Under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, you have the discretionary authority to adjust the cost share. At this time, it is important that every level ofgovernment be able to marshal all its resources and capabilities in order to address thispandemic. Granting the requests of the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) and theMashpee Wampanoag Tribe, and waiving the traditional cost share requirements for all COVID19--related assistance to them, will better empower them to address this pandemic. We urge youto do so and thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,