Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - Senators Markey and Warren, and Reps. Moulton and Keating Urge USDA to Include East Coast Seafood in Purchase Agreements Established with Coronavirus Recovery Funding


Dear Secretary Perdue,

We write again to request that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) include East Coast seafoodproducers among the recipients of financial assistance to agricultural producers that the Department isproviding in response to the coronavirus pandemic. On April 17, 2020, USDA announced a $19 billionCoronavirus Food Assistance Program (CFAP) intended to support farmers, ranchers, and consumersduring this public health and economic crisis. But USDA did not specify whether seafood producerswould be eligible for that aid. We ask that you recognize the devastating effects the pandemic has had onseafood businesses, engage with these important stakeholders, and include them in these financialassistance programs.

As we have previously explained, the fishing and seafood industries are essential to the Americaneconomy, with $5.6 billion worth of fisheries products landed and $11.6 billion worth of fisheriesproducts processed in 2018.2 The coronavirus outbreak has caused restaurants across the United States toshutter, eliminating a key customer base. The pandemic has also disrupted large export markets incountries such as China, which the coronavirus has hit hard. As a result, the U.S. fishing and seafoodindustries are under serious financial duress that shows no signs of abating.

The $19 billion CFAP includes $9.5 billion from the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security(CARES) Act, $3 billion from the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, and $6.5 billion from theCommodity Credit Corporation. Congress designated the $9.5 billion in CARES Act funding for supportto agricultural producers affected by coronavirus, including producers that supply local food systems andrestaurants.4 Approximately two-thirds of U.S. seafood consumption occurs in restaurants.When USDA begins its purchasing programs intended to assist those whom the pandemic has effected, USDA should include domestic seafood.

In addition to assistance available through the CFAP, USDA announced on April 17 that it would providean additional $873.3 million in Section 32 funding for the purchase of a variety of agricultural productsfor distribution to food banks. USDA's Agricultural Marketing Service has previously purchased seafoodthrough the Section 32 program, and we urge USDA to continue that practice.East Coast seafood producers can offer a wide variety of seafood that currently does not have a market, and which should be included in purchases made for this program. 

We urge you to work with these producers to better understand the available supply and to ensure theirinclusion when USDA starts implementing its announced programs. In order for us to better understandUSDA's consideration of seafood in its assistance to agricultural producers affected by the coronaviruspandemic, please respond to the following questions by May 13, 2020:

1. Will USDA include seafood in its purchases of agricultural products under the CFAP?2. Will USDA include seafood in its purchases of agricultural products under the additional $873.3million in Section 32 funding?3. Are there other USDA programs that will buy seafood products to provide assistance to producersimpacted by the coronavirus pandemic?4. Is USDA currently in conversations with seafood producers from the East Coast to purchaseseafood?

If you have any questions about this request, please reach out to Claire Richer on Senator Markey's staffat claire_richer@markey.senate.gov.

Sincerely,