Letter to Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State - Senators Markey and Boozman Urge U.S. Leadership to End Suffering in Syria Civil War


Dear Secretary Pompeo:

We urge the Administration to take action to avert further catastrophe in Syria, whosepeople have suffered for nine years under a crushing civil war. We believe the United States ispoised to lead the international community in this effort, through three discrete measures: (1)protecting the fragile ceasefire in Idlib province, (2) removing barriers to humanitarian aid,which will help limit the spread and impact of COVID-19 in Syria, and (3) implementingtargeted sanctions in response to the Assad regime's chemical weapons attacks and otherbarbaric human rights abuses. Through these steps, the United States can help foster conditionsthat can bring about an end to the Syrian civil war and play a pivotal role in in easing thesuffering of the Syrian people.

Last month marked the nine-year anniversary of the first democratic protests in Syria thatignited the civil war that wages to this day. The brutal conflict-- marked by violations ofinternational law governing the rules of conflict, use of chemical weapons, and protections ofcivilians-- has led to a humanitarian disaster of epic proportions. A political resolution to theSyrian civil war remains elusive, adding to the misery faced by more than eleven million Syrianswho either have fled their country as refugees or now populate internally displaced persons (IDP)camps. But there is much the United States can do to alleviate this human suffering in Syria.

First, we urge you to fully support the fragile March 5 ceasefire in Idlib province, whichis protecting the province's three million inhabitants from a barrage of attacks by the Russianbacked Assad regime. Assad has a history of targeting civilians in the region, in contravention ofinternational law. For example, before the ceasefire, a series of bombings by the Assad regimeforced the Wisdom House -- an orphanage providing refuge to children in rural Idlib -- tosuspend its operations out of concern for the safety of teachers and students.1 The United Statesmust support efforts to enforce the ceasefire, including by providing assistance to partners andallies who are defending territory and civilian lives in and around Idlib.

Second, the Administration should call upon the Syrian regime and its proxies to openSyria's long-closed borders in order to allow the movement of humanitarian assistance,especially medical aid the country needs to battle the coronavirus pandemic. Nine years of warand the Assad regime's targeted attacks on hospitals have seriously damaged the Syrianhealthcare system. Despite generous pledges of support from the United States and other donorcountries, Syria still lacks necessary equipment and personnel to address the coronavirus. We must not allow COVID-19 to spread in Syria because available humanitarian assistance cannotreach those who need it.

Finally, we urge you to stand with the Syrian people and implement targeted sanctions inresponse to human rights abuses and chemical weapons attacks, as U.S. law requires. The CaesarSyria Civilian Protection (CAESAR) Act, which the President signed into law at the end of 2019,bears the name of a former Syrian military police photographer who documented the Assadregime's crimes in gruesome detail. The CAESAR Act gives us tools to target Assad, hisgovernment, and their supporters. The Administration should fulfill the law's requirement toimpose targeted sanctions designations for Assad and those in his inner circle responsible forhuman rights abuses.

Our sanctions response should not be limited to the CAESAR Act. On April 8, 2020, theInvestigation and Identification Team (IIT) of the Organization for the Prohibition of ChemicalWeapons (OPCW) concluded definitively that the Syrian regime was responsible for three usesof chemical weapons in 2017, adding to evidence previously reported by the Joint InvestigativeMechanism (JIM). We urge you to use other authorities under existing law to sanctionindividuals who perpetrated these horrific attacks, which terrorized civilians and eroded theglobal taboo on the use of chemical agents. We further ask that you push for correspondingaction in the United Nations Security Council, and stand up against Russia's continued efforts toshield the Syrian regime from responsibility.

Only a negotiated political agreement that ends Bashar al-Assad's brutal reign will end acivil war that has claimed over a half million lives. The steps we have outlined in this letter canhelp achieve it and bring relief to the Syrian people in their time of greatest need. To help usbetter understand how the Administration intends to respond to the crisis in Syria, we requestresponses to the following questions by May 15, 2020:

1. What steps has the Administration taken, and what additional steps does it intend to take,to bolster the March 5 ceasefire in Idlib province, including support for partners andallies who are protecting territory and civilian lives in the area?2. What steps has the Administration taken, and what additional steps does it intend to take,to allow humanitarian assistance to reach the Syrian people, especially medicalequipment and personnel needed to fight the coronavirus pandemic in Syria?3. Will the Administration impose sanctions against Assad, his government, and itssupporters under the CAESAR Act, as U.S. law requires? If so, what sanctions andwhen? If not, why not? How does the Administration intend to respond to the Assadregime's three confirmed instances of chemical weapons use in 2017? 

Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. If you have any questions, please contactBlake Narendra (blake_narendra@markey.senate.gov) and Salvador Ortega(salvador_ortega@boozman.senate.gov), respectively, on our staffs.

Sincerely,