Letter to Joseph V. Cuffari, Inspector of Department of Homeland Security - California Congressional Members Lead Request for Investigation of Death at Detention Facility and ICE Measures During COVID Crisis


Dear Inspector General Cuffari:

We write to ask for a thorough investigation into the recent death of a detained person at OtayMesa Detention Center (Otay Mesa) due to COVID-19. We request that your investigationinclude an assessment of the sufficiency of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's(ICE's) preparedness for a COVID-19 outbreak, including any measures to prevent its spreadamong the detained population and ensure the testing, treatment, and care of persons detained at Otay Mesa during this pandemic. Since the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak in the UnitedStates, Members of Congress have requested information from the Department of HomelandSecurity (DHS) and ICE to understand how the Department manages the risk of COVID-19outbreaks in detention centers, and we have yet to receive sufficient answers. Based on the scantinformation that DHS and ICE have made available and public reports, ICE has takeninsufficient measures to protect individuals in its custody and staff working in detentionfacilities.

As of today, 1,327 detained persons have tested positive for COVID-19 out of 2,620 individualswho have been tested,although this may be an undercount of the number of infections sinceICE has not implemented widespread testing of all detained persons. According to ICE, it hasreleased at least 900 medically vulnerable individuals since March. The Otay Mesa DetentionCenter has suffered the most significant coronavirus outbreak among ICE detention facilities; atleast 217 total detained persons have tested positive, including 158 in ICE custody. ICE hasstated that the agency will consider releasing more detained persons based on medical conditionsand public safety considerations.

On May 6, Carlos Escobar-Mejia died at Paradise Valley Hospital in National City, CA aftercontracting COVID-19 in the Otay Mesa Detention Center. He was held in ICE custody fornearly four months and was identified as medically vulnerable after he was hospitalized.Advocacy organizations have described the following dangerous conditions at Otay Mesa:

* cells are populated by up to eight people at once with bunk beds fewer than six feetapart;* when a detained person has tested positive, ICE has "cohorted" dozens of people whowere in the same housing unit as that person, which means they were locked uptogether for two weeks in close proximity despite public health guidancerecommending physical distancing to prevent the spread of infection;* detained persons share sinks, toilets, telephones, and showers, with no disinfectantcleaner available for after use;* soap runs out frequently and refills are inconsistent, forcing detained persons whocannot afford to buy soap to go without it;* mealtime is communal, with detained persons lined up in close proximity to receivetheir meals, compelling them to choose between eating at overcrowded tables or intheir cells, close to other detained persons and toilets; and* detained persons have reported insufficient medical services and potential retaliationagainst individuals who report concerns regarding the same.

Additionally, a group of 43 individuals currently detained at Otay Mesa describe serious medicalneglect by staff at Otay Mesa.5 We urge you to investigate and assess conditions at Otay Mesa,including the sufficiency of policies, protocols, and practices governing decision-making aboutsocial distancing, hygiene, and personal protective equipment by both ICE and third-partycontractors operating at the facility. We also urge you to identify the actual availability oftesting, care, and treatment for detained persons; and the availability of testing for all staff atOtay Mesa, including individuals employed by third-party contractors.

Your robust and thorough investigation is imperative to preventing COVID-19-related illnessand death in ICE custody. In addition to seeking records from ICE and interviewing staff at OtayMesa, this investigation should include interviews with legal service providers and detainedpersons (with adequate precautions to prevent retaliation and ensure anonymity).

Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. We respectfully request a response as soonas possible.