Letter to Jerome Powell, Chair of the Federal Reserve - Senator Markey and Rep. Barragán Decry Requested Fed Bailout of Debt-Ridden Fossil Fuel Companies


Dear Chairman Powell,

On April 15, 2020, we were joined by 39 members of Congress in writing to express ouropposition to the proposed use of coronavirus response funds to bail out the fossil fuel industry.After learning that the fossil fuel industry is lobbying for special treatment under the FederalReserve's Main Street Lending Program, we are following up to urge you to reject these calls tochange this program, which is intended for use by small- and medium-sized businesses that werein good financial standing before the crisis hit. Specifically, fossil fuel producers are seekingchanges to the terms of the program that would allow them to use loan proceeds to pay off orsettle pre-coronavirus-pandemic loans and debts. It would be a short-sighted misuse of taxpayerresources to accede to these requests, which would effectively help bail out an industrystruggling under the weight of its own debt and long-term systemic decline.

Fossil fuel investments are now riddled with fundamental structural risks. As countries aroundthe world respond to the climate crisis, deployment costs for renewable energy alternatives arefalling. This is causing unease among investors about the future value of fossil fuel assets,leading to concerns about the long-term performance of fossil fuel industry stocks--fears thathave been borne out over the past decade as the energy sector has remained the worst-performingsector on the S&P 500. Many notable financial institutions have already moved to restrict theirexposure to carbon-intensive investments, including BlackRock, Wells Fargo, the EuropeanInvestment Bank, and the World Bank Group. And these concerns have arisen despite onegiveaway after another from the federal government to the fossil fuel industry, with the Trumpadministration rolling back key regulations such as fuel economy standards and keeping billionsof dollars in annual tax subsidies on the books.

Additionally, using federal money to prop up the fossil fuel industry would only increase thefinancial toll of climate change and the environmental degradation it has wrought. Cities, states,and the federal government are already bearing the costs of rising seas, flooding, heat waves, andother environmental and public health disasters. The costs of inaction on climate change are already high, but continued investment in its root cause of fossil fuels will only drive those costs higher.

During the federal response to this unprecedented crisis, we urge you to deploy the FederalReserve's resources in a way that protects taxpayer interests and avoids the bailout of an industrythat has been struggling under its own short-sighted financial decisions for years. We mustprotect workers and communities affected by the oversupply of fossil fuels and the resultingdownturn in oil and gas prices, but we can do that without carving out special rules for loans tofossil fuel corporations. We strongly urge you to resist the fossil fuel industry's calls forprivileged treatment and maintain the existing terms of the Main Street Lending Program.

Sincerely,