Letter to Jovita Carranza, Small Business Administration Administrator, and Steven T. Mnuchin, Department of the Treasury Secretary - Cantwell, Hirono, Markey Urge SBA & Treasury to Help Small Businesses with 10 or Fewer Employees Access COVID-19 Relief Funds


Dear Administrator Carranza and Secretary Mnuchin:

Our smallest businesses especially women-owned and minority businesses have long struggledgetting access to capital. The coronavirus pandemic has created new hurdles for them. We urgeyou to ensure that small businesses with 10 or fewer employees and self-employed individualsget the help they need from the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), Economic Injury DisasterLoan (EIDL), and other COVID-19-related assistance. The needs of our smallest businesses mustbe taken into account in final guidance, forms, and process for PPP loan forgiveness.

Smaller businesses represent 96 percent of small businesses across the country and aredisproportionately women- and minority-owned. Over 98 percent of women-owned businesses,representing more than 9.7 million businesses, have fewer than 10 employees. Black-ownedbusinesses employ an average of nine people and 96 percent of all Black-owned firms are soleproprietors. Approximately 96 percent of all Asian-owned businesses have less than 10employees.

The CARES Act was meant to prioritize underserved concerns including many of these womenand minority-owned businesses. Soon after the PPP went into effect, however, it was reportedthat many smaller and underserved businesses struggled to access these loans. For example, asurvey by UnidosUS and Color of Change found that only 1 in 10 Black and Latinx smallbusiness owners received the assistance they requested and more than 40 percent received noassistance at all. On May 8, 2020, the SBA Inspector General determined that the SBA's efforts"did not fully align" with the CARES Act by failing to prioritize underserved markets.At the same time, our minority communities have been disproportionately hurt by thecoronavirus pandemic. Additionally, between February and May, the unemployment rateincreased 190 percent for African-Americans and 500 percent for Asian Americans. Theunemployment rate for black women has reached as high as 16.4 percent.

Ensuring that COVID-related small business assistance reaches businesses with 10 or feweremployees will enable more businesses to remain open and more employees to return to work,especially in underserved communities. We appreciate your attention to this important matterand urge you to help make COVID-19-related assistance more accessible to the smallestbusinesses.