Letter to Alex Azar, Secretary of the Dept. of Health and Human Services - Senators Markey and Warren Call on Trump Admin. to Meet Massachusetts' Needs and Ensure Equity, Transparency in Hospital and Health Care Provider Relief Funds


Dear Secretary Azar,Massachusetts hospitals, health care facilities, and health care providers are experiencing seriousfinancial challenges during the novel coronavirus outbreak and require significant assistancefrom the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, andEconomic Security (CARES) Act created a $100 billion Provider Relief Fund from which HHShas already distributed $30 billion in initial funding to health care providers. But the manner inwhich HHS has disbursed these funds to health care providers in hard-hit states such asMassachusetts has not adequately addressed their needs. We call on HHS to recognize thisshortcoming and make needed adjustments to future Provider Relief Fund disbursements. Theseadjustments are particularly important as Congress contemplates providing an additional $75billion in provider relief funds through the Paycheck Protection Program and Health CareEnhancement Act, which is awaiting action in the House.

The $841 million that HHS has distributed to Massachusetts health care providers in this firstround of funding is a tremendous help and a necessary first step. In particular, we appreciatethat HHS based the funding allocation for this initial disbursement on rigorous data, specifically2019 fee-for-service Medicare reimbursements.  This transparent funding allocation enabledHHS to disburse these funds quickly, allowed health care providers to plan based on an expectedamount, and provided much-needed assurance that HHS would distribute the funds consistentwith objective data and evidence. This transparent methodology stands in contrast to the way theTrump administration has administered much of the coronavirus pandemic response.

The methodology HHS used, however, does not adequately account for the burdens that manymedical providers in Massachusetts and across the country face. In particular, hospitals andhealth care facilities that treat a large number of patients covered by Medicaid or MedicareAdvantage, or provider types that see fewer Medicare beneficiaries, such as children's hospitalsor obstetricians, receive a disproportionately small share of these funds. Facilities or providersnewly enrolled in Medicare would receive no funds, and providers experiencing disruptions toservices they provided in 2019 -- for example, due to planned renovations or natural disasters --see reduced benefits under the current formula. HHS should take care to ensure disbursementsfrom the Provider Relief Fund meet the needs of these providers.Moreover, the initial formula did not account for the extreme impact in coronavirus hot spots.Although Massachusetts represents 4.7% of all U.S. COVID-19 cases and 3.6% of all U.S.deaths (as of April 17, 2020), Massachusetts received only 2.8% of the $30 billion initiallydistributed.5 And although the funding Massachusetts received amounted to $44,000 per reportedCOVID-19 patient in the state, other states such as Minnesota, Nebraska, West Virginia, andNorth Dakota received more than $300,000 per reported COVID-19 case.6 HHS hasacknowledged this deficiency, and suggested that that coronavirus hot spots would be a priorityfor remaining funds.7

As HHS works to fully implement the Provider Relief Fund, we urge you to prioritize funds forhealth care facilities, providers, and other medical workers not adequately accounted for in theinitial disbursement -- in particular, in states such as Massachusetts that have the most COVID19 cases per capita. Health care providers facing large numbers of COVID-19 cases need substantial assistance as they race to treat infections and keep their facilities financially afloat. We also call on HHS to account for providers with large Medicaid and Medicare advantagepopulations, provider types for whom Medicare is a smaller portion of their revenue, andproviders and facilities for whom 2019 Medicare revenues do not represent normal patientvolumes. These providers are likely to see many COVID-19 patients and experience financialrepercussions from this pandemic, but they are not accounted for in the initial disbursementformula.

Finally, we call on HHS to continue to rely on clearly defined and objective criteria as itdetermines subsequent Provider Relief Fund payments. We are encouraged by HHS'stransparency in the initial round of disbursements. However, we worry that as subsequenttranches focus on areas disproportionately impacted by coronavirus, HHS could return to itsprevious practice of directing resources based on political motivations. Moving away fromobjective criteria to distributing funds by political influence or electoral significance isunacceptable.

In light of all the preceding, we request answers to the following questions by April 30, 2020:1. How does HHS plan to allocate future Provider Relief Fund disbursements to hospitals,health care facilities, and health care providers?2. How does HHS plan to address the failure of the initial round of disbursements toadequately account for providers with large numbers of Medicaid or Medicare Advantagebeneficiaries, provider types who provide services to few Medicare beneficiaries, orproviders or facilities whose 2019 Medicare reimbursements do not accurately representtheir normal patient volume?3. HHS has indicated that it will consider fund distribution to "hot spots" facing the largestoutbreaks in coronavirus pandemic. How does HHS intend to identify these "hot spots"?What formula, methodology, or data will HHS use to make these determinations?4. In assessing whether a locality is a hot spot and targeting funding, how does HHS intendto account for disparities in:a. testing capacity and data collection,; andb. COVID-19 prevalence and outcomes based on race, ethnicity, gender, or income?5. How does HHS intend to examine whether the Provider Relief Fund is meeting the needsof hospitals, health care facilities, health care providers, and other medical workersemployed at those facilities?6. What are HHS' plans for transparency in future Provider Relief Fund disbursements,including those envisioned by the Paycheck Protection Program and Health CareEnhancement Act? Does HHS plan to make public the methodology for its fundingallocations, or to provide that information to state and local governments, hospitals, otherhealth care facilities, and health care providers? If not, why not? If so, please describe theexpected timeline for providing this information.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please contact Adam Axler with Senator Markey(adam_axler@markey.senate.gov) or Susannah Savage with Senator Warren(susannah_savage@warren.senate.gov) with any questions.

Sincerely