Massachusetts Awarded Nearly $4 Million In Emergency Food And Shelter Assistance Under CARES Act


U.S. Representative Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), joined U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), and U.S. Representatives Richard E. Neal (MA-01), James P. McGovern (MA-02), William Keating (MA-09), Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-04), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Ayanna Pressley (MA-07), and Lori Trahan (MA-03), to announce that Massachusetts was awarded a total of $3,994,913 under the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)'s Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP).

The federal funding, which was appropriated in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act to ease financial hardship caused by the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, will support organizations dedicated to feeding, sheltering, and providing critical resources to people experiencing, or at-risk of experiencing, hunger and homelessness.

The Massachusetts counties receiving federal funding include:

Barnstable County - $131,927Berkshire County - $67,662Bristol County - $338,010Dukes County - $11,381 Essex County $379,155Hampden County - $277,380Hampshire County - $73,144Middlesex County - $639,254Nantucket County/Town - $9,892Plymouth County - $260,606Suffolk County - $359,789 Worcester County $420,687State Set-Aside Committee, MA - $1,026,026"I am pleased to see Massachusetts receive this funding to provide food and shelter to our most vulnerable families," said Representative Lynch. "I think it is important to remember that the pain of this crisis has not been spread evenly. There are people who are doing okay and there are people who are struggling desperately to survive and it is really important that we continue to provide a life-line of supplies and resources to the people who are suffering most."

"No American should ever have to worry about putting food on the table or housing their loved ones -- especially not during a public health emergency," said Senator Warren. "This new federal funding will go a long way towards helping Massachusetts families make ends meet during this pandemic, and I'll keep fighting with my delegation partners to support our most vulnerable residents in these trying times."

"The coronavirus has spread insecurity throughout our economy and daily lives, and it is our job to make sure that in these challenging times that food on the table and a roof overhead are ensured for every American," said Senator Markey. "The Emergency Food and Shelter funding will provide critical support for our most vulnerable, and I will continue to partner with the entire delegation to push for more relief in future legislative packages for Massachusetts communities."

"During this pandemic, we must not forget about the needs of our most vulnerable populations including those who have limited access to food or shelter," said Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means Richard E. Neal. "FEMA's allocation of these funds across the country and in particular in western and central Massachusetts is the national principle at work. We all come to the aid of those who need it most."

"We are the richest most powerful country in the history of the world. It is unacceptable by any standard that Americans are struggling to put food on the table or a roof over their head during this crisis," said Chairman of the House Rules Committee Jim McGovern. "The organizations helping to feed the hungry and shelter the homeless during this pandemic represent the best of America. They embody the idea that we are all in this together and that nobody should be left out or left behind. Our delegation will keep doing everything in our power to continue fighting for Massachusetts' most vulnerable families during this time difficult time."  

"Now is the time to come together as a community, and with so many of our neighbors suffering from food instability, these funds are a much needed support to our families," said Congressman Bill Keating. "The CARES Act was intended to help our citizens and it is good to see funds and resources that will go directly to them."

"In the wealthiest nation on earth, none of our neighbors should go hungry or homeless, not now, and not ever," said Congressman Kennedy. "As we celebrate these critical funds to support local organizations protecting their communities, we must do more as so many in our Commonwealth lose food security and shelter."

"Many Massachusetts families are facing a second month without a paycheck and they're turning to our emergency shelters and food banks for a lifeline," said Congresswoman Clark. "Our municipal leaders, local agencies, and non-profits are doing everything to meet their needs, and I am hopeful that this emergency federal funding will help keep our pantries fill, our shelters open and our families safe during this unprecedented crisis."

"With so many people out of work, nonprofits are helping people figure out where their next meals are coming from," said Congressman Moulton. "Many nonprofits are doing this without revenue or donations, and this money will help ease the financial strain that's causing. This stopgap measure is helpful but not enough. Congress must take more permanent action that helps nonprofits in the next round of CARES Act funding."

"The COVID-19 crisis has unleashed unprecedented hurt on communities in Massachusetts and around the country, and it is critical the federal government's response centers the needs of those most impacted," said Congresswoman Pressley. "This Emergency Food and Shelter funding will provide much needed supports to those experiencing housing and food insecurity. No one should be forced to choose between paying rent and keeping food on the table. I'll continue to work with my colleagues at every level of government to push for relief that's responsive to our communities."

"As we continue to work together to get through this public health crisis, we must ensure that no one, especially those who are most at-risk of losing their home or going hungry, is left behind. This emergency food and shelter funding is an important down payment to keeping the most vulnerable in our communities safe during this pandemic," said Congresswoman Lori Trahan.

More information on the eligible jurisdictions and allocation amounts is available here.