Massachusetts Awarded Additional $11.65M in Federal Funding to Combat Coronavirus Outbreak


United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), along with Representatives Richard E. Neal (D-MA-01), James P. McGovern (D-MA-02), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA-08), William Keating (D-MA-09), Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA-04), Katherine Clark (D-MA-05), Seth Moulton (D-MA-06), Ayanna Pressley (D-MA-07) and Lori Trahan (D-MA-03), today announced that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has awarded the Commonwealth of Massachusetts an additional $11,649,309.30 to support efforts to address a potential outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19).

"With at least 95 confirmed coronavirus cases, Massachusetts needs all the federal help it can get to fight this outbreak," said Senator Elizabeth Warren. "I'm glad the CDC has awarded this funding to the Commonwealth, and I'll keep fighting to provide hardworking public health officials in Massachusetts with the funding and resources they need to keep families safe during this pandemic."

"I commend the CDC for taking the steps necessary to provide states with resources to bolster our response to this pandemic," said Senator Ed Markey. "Now more than ever, we must band together to ensure our state and local health departments have the support they need to help Massachusetts families suffering from the impacts of the coronavirus."

"Americans need a coordinated, fully-funded, government-wide response to keep us safe from the coronavirus pandemic," said Chairman Richard E. Neal. "I am pleased with the allocation of these important funds to Massachusetts. As our country stares down this growing public health crisis, this emergency funding will help improve preparedness, devote resources to accelerate vaccine development, and provide responding health workers with the medical supplies they need."

"This is an all-hands-on-deck moment. As the number of cases in Massachusetts continues to rise, I'm grateful that we have received this critical funding from the CDC to support a coordinated and comprehensive response to this crisis," said Congressman McGovern. "I'm going to continue doing everything I can to ensure that we are listening to scientists and experts, protecting vulnerable communities, and fully funding and supporting our front-line health care workers."

"I am very pleased to see Massachusetts receive this additional funding from the CDC," said Representative Lynch.  "I'd like to thank all our public health officials and medical professionals who have been working tirelessly to treat those who have been affected and I look forward to working in conjunction with all my partners in government to ensure this federal funding is allocated properly and in the best interest of the health and safety of the American public." 

"Unfortunately, there are a lot of unknowns with this virus, but Massachusetts has the best healthcare system in the Nation," said Congressman Bill Keating. "I am particularly concerned for my district, which has a higher number of seniors, making it one of the most vulnerable populations in the State. These funds will help us target resources to address the spread and treatment of coronavirus and limit the number of Bay Staters affected. I will continue to advocate for as much federal assistance is needed to fully address this issue at home."

"As neighborhoods work day and night to prevent, treat and contain this pandemic, state and local leaders will lead our response," said Congressman Joe Kennedy III. "This funding will help those communities continue to strategize and act, but it is critical that we continue to provide our states, cities and towns with the funding and support they need to end this coronavirus outbreak."

"Many of our own communities are now on the front lines of this public health crisis and in urgent need of federal assistance," said Congresswoman Katherine Clark. "This additional funding for state and local public health agencies will ensure that we are healthy, safe and prepared. I will continue working closely with the CDC to make sure that Massachusetts families have the information and resources they need during this crisis."

"Every public health expert I've spoken with has stressed that this virus will continue to spread, but we must flatten the curve so that the increase does not overwhelm our health care system," Representative Seth Moulton said. "To do it, our communities and health care workers need test kits and supplies. This will help bring them where they're most needed. I'm going to keep raising our community's needs and delivering."

"While our state and local officials are working to contain the spread of the coronavirus, the federal government must provide a coordinated, fully funded response to mitigate harm to vulnerable communities," said Congresswoman Pressley. "I am grateful that the Commonwealth has received funding from the CDC that will ensure resources are provided to support our local public health infrastructure such as the availability and affordability of testing kits."

"With the number of coronavirus cases in Massachusetts on the rise, additional federal assistance is needed," said Congresswoman Lori Trahan. "That's why this CDC funding is such welcome news. It's crucial for our dedicated health care workers to fight this pandemic. I intend to continue working to make sure Massachusetts has the resources necessary to fight the spread of coronavirus, and to support families, workers, and businesses who are bearing the brunt of its impact."

The funding awarded to Massachusetts follows the enactment of the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2020, which provides $8.3 billion nationwide to combat COVID-19's spread. The appropriations package directs resources for grants or cooperative agreements to states, localities, territories, and tribes to accelerate planning and operational readiness for COVID-19 preparedness and response. The funding will also support the development of tools and strategies, provide technical assistance and program support, as well as ensure ongoing communication and coordination among public health agencies and partners throughout the response.

Last week, the Commonwealth was awarded $500,000 in initial coronavirus funding from the CDC, and has received a total of $12,149,309.30 in supplemental funding to date.