Massachusetts Airports Awarded Over $171 Million in CARES Act Funding


United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), along with Representatives Richard E. Neal (D-MA-01), James P. McGovern (D-MA-02), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA-08), William Keating (D-MA-09), Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA-04), Katherine Clark (D-MA-05), Seth Moulton (D-MA-06), Ayanna Pressley (D-MA-07) and Lori Trahan (D-MA-03), announced that Massachusetts airports have been awarded over $171 million in federal grants under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.

"Airports in Massachusetts and across the country -- which fuel our national and regional economy -- have been hit hard by this public health emergency," said Senator Warren. "This much-needed economic relief will allow the Commonwealth's airports to support their workers and maintain essential operations, and I'll keep pushing the federal government to support them during this difficult time."  

"Boston Logan, Worcester Regional, and all of our airports across the Commonwealth are essential hubs for travel and commerce," said Senator Markey. "This emergency relief will ensure that the people of Massachusetts can return to safe and secure airport facilities when it's appropriate, and that our hardworking aviation professionals can stay on the job. I am proud to have fought for and helped secure this funding. As Congress debates future relief packages, I will make sure our transportation systems remain strong."

"Thanks to the CARES Act, regional airports across the First District of Massachusetts will have the ability to continue essential operations and support their employees," said Chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means Richard E. Neal. "As an author of this legislation, I take pride in the fact that we are able to assist so many groups of workers who find themselves on the front lines of this pandemic - those who work in these kinds of transportation hubs included. This funding will provide support to ensure that these airports are financially viable and able to return to their full capacity once this public health emergency subsides." 

"This emergency funding that Congress appropriated through the CARES Act will save jobs and ensure airports in Worcester, Orange, and Montague are ready for business once this crisis ends," said Congressman Jim McGovern. "During this time of uncertainty, the people of Massachusetts ought to know that their Congressional Delegation will continue working together as a team to ensure that our Commonwealth gets the funding and resources we need to get through this pandemic."

"As a member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, I am especially thankful that this aid will assist airport workers whose families are struggling and will allow essential workers to deliver medical supplies and equipment," said Representative Lynch.

"With tourism as one of the main engines of our local economy, many industries in our community are suffering, including those that would transport the influx of tourists we are used to seeing every year," said Congressman Keating.  "Our airports act as vital hubs, not only for tourists, but also for supplies and other imports as well as exports from our local businesses.  These funds will help to ensure they not only survive this pandemic but continue operations and to pay their employees."

"Our Commonwealth's airports strengthen and support our state and local economies while employing workers who live in their own communities," said Congressman Kennedy. "With this funding, we can maintain regional transportation options and help localities like Taunton and Mansfield as they confront this unprecedented pandemic."

"From our pilots to our baggage handlers, the airline industry and our airports have been hit particularly hard by the COVID-19 pandemic," said Congresswoman Clark. "House Democrats fought to ensure that the federal stimulus supports both our airline companies and it's workers. These dollars will help ensure that workers continue to receive a paycheck during these unprecedented times and that we remain ready and able to reopen for business when the time comes."

"During this crisis, every dollar in federal aid counts and I'm proud to support our state's airports. This funding will help airport operations and save jobs across the Commonwealth of Massachusetts," said Congresswoman Lori Trahan.