Senators Warren and Markey Call on Trump Administration to Ensure Taxpayers Quickly Receive Stimulus Checks Regardless of Banking Status


United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) today urged the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to do everything it can to ensure American do not have to endure long wait times to receive their stimulus payments under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, regardless of banking status. 

 

According to news reports, taxpayers who do not provide direct deposit information to the IRS may not receive their payments until August or even September. In their letter, Senators Markey and Warren argue that any delay in disbursing paper checks is likely to compound problems with future stimulus action that Congress may soon need to take. Though the CARES Act was signed into law two weeks ago, the worsening pandemic and economic fallout have made it apparent that American families are likely to require more support from the federal government.

 

"We strongly believe that these payments alone are not sufficient, and Congress will need to provide additional economic relief to help struggling Americans get by. But right now we must ensure Americans get access to these promised payments as quickly as possible," write the senators in their letter to Treasury Secretary Stephen Mnuchin. "We look forward to ensuring that all Americans receive their stimulus payments without delay."

 

Earlier today, Senator Warren also unveiled an Essential Workers Bill of Rights with Congressman Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) to get frontline workers additional benefits like hazard pay, paid sick leave, access to child care and more. In an op-ed in the New York Times on April 8, she called for extending economic relief to include suspending consumer debt collection, enacting a universal national moratorium on evictions and foreclosures, stopping water and utility shut-offs, and providing as much broad student loan debt cancellation as possible.