Unanimous Consent Request--S. Con. Res. 32


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, Members of the Senate, I rise first to  express my grave concern over President Trump's recent actions and  words that have brought us to the brink of an unauthorized war with  Iran. 

  Today I am introducing a resolution with Senator Warren and Senators  Leahy and Reed and Booker and Wyden because, on Saturday, President  Trump tweeted that his administration is targeting 52 sites, some of  which are cultural sites treasured by the Iranian people. 

  My resolution is very simple. It says that attacks on cultural sites  in Iran are war crimes. It is as straightforward as that. 

  The President would compound the mistake he has made and turn it into  something that could be catastrophic for that region, for our country,  for the world. 

  President Trump's repeated threats to add Iranian cultural sites to  his military target list is a betrayal of American values. It is wrong.  It is a needless escalation which ignores international law and the  Defense Department's own policies. Attacking cultural sites is a  violation of international law. 

  Article 53 of protocol 1 to the Geneva Conventions prohibits any act  of hostility against cultural objects, including making cultural sites  the target of reprisals. 

  The 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in  the Event of Armed Conflict, which has been ratified by this body, also  prohibits the attack or destruction of cultural sites. 

  Attacking cultural sites would also violate the Defense Department's  own policies. The Department of Defense Law of War Manual states that  cultural property, the areas immediately  surrounding it, and appliances in use for its protection should be  safeguarded and respected. 

  The fact that President Trump's threatened attacks of cultural sites  in Iran violate international law and Department of Defense policies  may be why, yesterday, Defense Secretary Mark Esper appeared forced to  contradict the President. 

  When asked if cultural sites would be targeted as the President had  suggested over the weekend, Secretary Esper stated that the United  States ``follow[s] the laws of armed conflict.'' 

  Well, the U.S. Senate then should speak clearly with one voice to  tell President Trump it does not condone attacks on cultural sites in  Iran. Given Secretary Esper's comments yesterday, I cannot see why my  friends on the other side of the aisle would not support this  resolution to make that statement very clear and to make it now before  Iran potentially retaliates against us, and the President begins to  select the targets inside of Iran. 

  Attacking cultural sites is what ISIS does. It is what al-Qaida does.  It is what the world's most heinous terrorists do. There is no excuse  for the President to threaten war crimes by intentionally targeting the  cultural sites of another country. This is not who we are. We are the  United States of America. We are better than this. We actually fight  against this. We condemn ISIS. We condemn others who destroy the  culturally sacred objects in other countries. 

  Just a few years ago, in 2017, the Trump administration itself  opposed and condemned the unlawful destruction of cultural heritage at  the hands of ISIS. As a top U.S. official to the United Nations, U.S.  Deputy Permanent Representative to the U.N. Michele Sison said on the  President's behalf:  

       The unlawful destruction or trafficking of cultural       heritage is deplorable. We unequivocally oppose it and we       will take all feasible steps to halt, limit, and to       discourage it.  

  Now the President himself is threatening to engage in exactly these  sorts of illegal and reprehensible attacks on Iran. 

  The United States had a choice to make during World War II because  our military kept putting Japan's ancient capital Kyoto back on the  target list for the atomic bomb. Kyoto is home to more than 2,000  Buddhist temples, Shinto shrines, including 17 world heritage sites. 

  It was Secretary of War Henry Stimson who went directly to President  Truman to argue that Kyoto should be removed because ``the bitterness  which would be caused by such a wanton act might make it impossible  during the long post-war period to reconcile the Japanese to us.'' 

  So if we want any ultimate reconciliation with Iran, we cannot allow  Donald Trump to order the destruction of the cultural history of Iran  so that reconciliation may never be possible. Imagine the outcry the  American people would have if our symbols of cultural heritage were  destroyed--the Statue of Liberty destroyed; Independence Hall, where  the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were drafted,  destroyed; the memorials along the National Mall destroyed. These  places house and embody our collective history and the culture of the  United States of America. 

  The assassination of General Soleimani was a massive, deliberate, and  dangerous escalation of conflict with Iran. What conditions prompt us  to go to war? The U.S. Constitution and the War Powers Act leave little  ambiguity. The Congress, not the President, has the power to make or  authorize the war. The Congress has the authority to determine when and  how we go to war. 

  We cannot and must not get drawn into a costly war with Iran. We need  to deescalate now. But President Trump's threat to illegally attack  cultural sites in Iran only aligns us with the world's most sinister  and draws us further along the path to war. 

  Some might say: Well, Secretary of Defense Esper says that President  Trump will not do this. Let me read you President Trump's tweet at 5:52  p.m. on Saturday evening. Here is what he said: ``targeted 52 Iranian  sites . . . some at a very high level & important to Iran & the Iranian  culture, and those targets, and Iran itself, WILL BE HIT VERY FAST AND  VERY HARD.'' 

  That was by the President of the United States just Saturday night at  5:52 p.m., and we are supposed to be assured by Secretary of Defense  Esper that we don't have to worry? 

  Well, here is what we have learned in just the last couple of days.  The generals were stunned. The generals were shocked that President  Trump ordered the assassination of Soleimani. So we can't depend upon  the representations of Secretary Esper. 

  We have to make a statement ourselves because no one in his  administration controls Donald Trump. If he says that he is going to  target the most valuable cultural sites inside Iran, we should believe  him. He does what he says he is going to do. He wanted to kill  Soleimani. Even if the generals were shocked, he did it. 

  He doesn't understand the long-term consequences. From his  perspective, just get over it. Well, if we sow the wind, we are going  to reap the whirlwind in Iran. 

  If the President decides to take the next step after Iran  retaliates--and they say that they are--and these sacred cultural sites  are on the list, then taking Secretary Stimson's advice from World War  II, our ability to ever reconcile may be impossible. 

  This is the moment that we have to speak as a Senate because we do  not know how much time will elapse before Iran strikes back at us, as  they have promised. We should make our statement right now to Donald  Trump in the Oval Office that we do not want him under any  circumstances to order the destruction of the most sacred cultural  sites inside Iran. It would be a war crime. It would be a violation of  the Geneva Convention. It would be a violation of the Hague Convention.  It would have catastrophic consequences for our country and for the  Middle East for a generation. So this is the time for us to speak-- before it happens, before the President fulfills his promise to destroy  those sites. 

  He is the Commander in Chief. He said that he wants to do this. He  just killed--assassinated--the top military official, the second most  powerful person in Iran, to the shock of his own generals. So do not  think for a second he will not do this. 

  This is a potential tragedy for our country. This is a potential  source of eternal friction between our two countries. Reconciliation  with Iran would become nearly impossible. So let's make this statement  as the U.S. Senate. Let's follow up on what Secretary of Defense Esper  represents as the position of President Trump and of the  administration--that they don't want to destroy it. But let's make the  statement because we know that the Defense Secretary just may not speak  for Donald Trump. No one speaks for Donald Trump. Only his tweets speak  for Donald Trump, and we know what his tweet said: ``at a very high  level & important to Iran & the Iranian culture, and those targets, and  Iran itself, WILL BE HIT VERY FAST AND VERY HARD.'' 

  We have a chance here to make a statement before this happens.  Forewarned is forearmed. We have been forewarned, and our ability to  act is with a unanimous resolution here from the floor of the U.S.  Senate, saying to the President as Secretary Stimson said to President  Truman in 1945: Do not do this, Mr. President. It will be a mistake of  historic proportions and a war crime. Do not order a war crime to be  conducted in the name of the American people. 

  So the resolution that I bring to the floor is intended to have this  body vote and vote unanimously for him not to take that action. This is  our moment to speak before he compounds his original mistake--the  assassination of General Soleimani--and turns it into a tragedy, which  we will have to live with for a generation. 

   Con. Res.  32 submitted earlier today. I further ask that the concurrent  resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motion to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no  intervening action or debate. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, just in response to the Senator from  Oklahoma, it is deeply disheartening when, on the floor of the U.S.  Senate, we cannot agree to a simple commitment that the United States  of America should never engage in military actions that are war crimes  by attacking cultural sites in Iran. 

  When ISIS attacks cultural sites in the Middle East, we condemn that  because we know what the impact on the cultures of those countries will  be. When al-Qaida attacked us on September 11, 2001, which targets did  they select? They selected the World Trade Center, the symbol of  capitalism in the United States. They selected the Pentagon, the symbol  of our defense. And but for those brave passengers on that plane in  Pennsylvania, when they said ``Let's roll,'' that target could have  been the Capitol Building of the United States of America where we are  standing right now, the symbol of Democracy. They knew what they were  doing--they were striking at capitalism, at our Defense Department, and  at our democracy--and they knew what the impact would have been on our  country.  

  So we have a choice to make right now out here on the floor of the  Senate, and that is to make a statement before we do that to the  Iranians because we ourselves experienced it, and we know what our  reaction was. They will rise up in a way that will make it impossible  to reconcile. We will be in eternal war in the Middle East. 

  My request to the Members is to have this resolution come back out  here on the floor. I understand the gentleman's objection, but the  President could be ordering additional retaliatory strikes against the  Iranians within a week if the Iranians are good for their word that  they are going to hit us. We have to be sure that if the President does  that, he does so in a way that does not commit a war crime and that  does not destroy these culturally significant parts of the Iranian  culture that go back thousands of years. It would be something that  ultimately would be catastrophic. 

  We are better than this. We are the United States of America.  President Trump has already made one mistake in assassinating General  Soleimani. We should not allow him to compound that mistake. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MARKEY. I yield to Senator Inhofe. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MARKEY. Madam President. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MARKEY. I yield back. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT