Warren, Markey, Lynch Announce Over $2 Million in Federal Funding for Quincy Seawall


United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), along with Representative Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA-08), announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the City of Quincy just over $2 million to fortify the seawall at Adam's Shore and Hough's Neck, which was damaged during the March 2018 Nor'easters.

"This long-overdue FEMA funding is terrific news and will make a big difference for Quincy as it works to rebuild its seawall, and for other South Shore communities that are still recovering from storm damage," said Senator Warren. "I'll keep working with the congressional delegation and local officials to ensure the federal government supports our cities and towns as they mitigate and respond to natural disasters."

"It's been two years since the City of Quincy's Adam Shore and Houghs Neck neighborhoods were devastated by strong coastal storms and flooding," said Senator Markey. "This FEMA funding to repair the seawall damage accrued during those storms has been a long time coming, but it will have a positive and immediate impact on the residents of this diverse coastal community. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Congressional delegation, local officials, and the mayor to ensure that Quincy, and all of our Commonwealth's communities, have the resources they need to mitigate the impacts of our changing climate."

"While we continue to work with FEMA to process Massachusetts' request for ventilators and PPE, I am pleased to see the City of Quincy receive this $2 million in critical funding to help safeguard the Adams Shore and Hough's Neck neighborhoods and repair its seawall," said Representative Lynch. "I will continue to work with Mayor Koch, Governor Baker and Senators Warren and Markey to protect our coastal communities. "

"This seawall project is absolutely vital to our coastal resiliency efforts, providing a substantial new layer of protection to our neighborhoods most affected by rising sea levels," said Quincy Mayor Thomas P. Koch. "I am deeply grateful for the work of Senator Warren and her team to make this grant a reality."

In March 2018, the Massachusetts congressional delegation wrote to FEMA to request assistance with the state's assessment and recovery processes following the damage caused by the storms.