Attacks and Threats on Democracy and Rule of Law


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for convening this  Special Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, this week marks this administration's first 100 days in  office. It has been 100 days of chaos, corruption, confusion, and  absolute destruction of our Constitution and the norms that this great  Nation was built on; 100 days of tearing apart our democracy, our  families, our communities, the vital Federal programs that serve the  people who make up our communities; thousands fired, agencies  dismantled, and people's personal and private data stolen; self-dealing  billions of dollars in Federal contracts, judges jailed, a Congress  that refuses to act and to do its job, and the countless Americans who  are living in fear.

Mr. Speaker, I have just wrapped up a townhall tour across my  district. While my colleagues across the aisle are afraid to even face  their constituents, we are showing up every day across our communities:  15 townhalls touching 15,000 New Mexicans across every county that we  represent in 12 towns and communities and Tribal communities across our  State.

Let me say this: Our people are afraid. Everywhere we go, across the  aisle, we saw people who are afraid they are going to lose their Social  Security, people who are afraid they are going to lose the healthcare  that keeps them and their family members alive, people who are afraid  that they are not going to be able to afford to put a roof over their  head or food on the table, people who are afraid watching as their  family members and friends are facing the threats of deportation,  students who are afraid to show up to school because they don't know  what will happen to themselves or their families.

This is the sign of an unhealthy democracy. This is the sign of an  executive who has lost touch with the American people. This is the sign  of an authoritarian and autocratic way of operating. This is the sign  of a democracy that has lost its way. This is a sign that the American  people need to continue to stand up, to speak out, to show up, to  attend those townhalls, to call their Representatives, to continue  marching, to continue making sure that we hold our elected officials to  account.

All across my district, there is not a single family who has not been  touched over the last 100 days: People who have lost their jobs,  teachers and firefighters, people who work for the VA and the Forest  Service, who work for our national security programs, scientists and  engineers, people who just started their jobs and people who have been  there for countless decades. These are real stories, real people, real  lives that have been impacted every single day for the last 100 days.

What have my colleagues across the aisle done? Nothing. They have  done nothing. They have failed to do their most basic constitutional  duty of speaking up on behalf of the people that they represent, of  holding the administration accountable, of saying something when they  see something that is wrong.

Not only do they refuse to do their most basic job, but they are here  in this building working on a tax package behind closed doors all  around us that will further take away the rights of the American  people, that will decimate basic programs that help people put food on  the table and a roof over their heads.

All around us, our colleagues are refusing to say out loud the things  they will say to us in private: that they, too, are frightened about  what is happening; that they, too, have constituents and veterans and  elderly people on Social Security and disability who are frightened for  their lives right now.

What is happening in this country is not normal. We refuse to  normalize it. We refuse to allow our democracy to be hijacked. We  refuse to allow the silence that is deafening this country right now to  continue. We must continue to speak up.

I say, Mr. Speaker, the time to act is now because if we do not, we  will lose everything. We must restore accountability. We must restore  our institutions. We must restore our norms. We must stand up. We must  speak out. We need our colleagues across the aisle to join us before we  lose our democracy.