Black History Month


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I stand before you tonight to honor and  to celebrate Black History Month.

Black History Month is not just a celebration, but a reminder of the  struggles, achievements, resilience, and contributions of Black  Americans throughout our Nation's history.

In New Mexico, it is the opportunity to honor and celebrate that  Black history is not only American history, it is New Mexico history,  especially as so many Black leaders are blazing the way for future  generations: Judge Shammara Henderson, the first Black judge to serve  in the New Mexico Court of Appeals; Senator Harold Pope, the first  Black State senator to serve in the history of the State of New Mexico;  Councilor Nichole Rogers, the first Black woman to serve on  Albuquerque's City Council; and Representative Pamelya Herndon, who is  the first Black State house representative to represent New Mexico  State House District 28, which is my State house representative in  Albuquerque.

These are just a few of the New Mexico leaders who are making history  as we stand on this floor tonight, who are leading the way, whose  voices are not only needed but necessary and who must be at all the  tables where decisions are being made.

As we know, these voices are currently being threatened by systemic  attacks on diversity, equity, and inclusion, as thousands of Federal  employees have been fired and put on leave, funding for programs has  been gutted, schools and public institutions have been threatened, and  leaders like General Charles Q. Brown, Jr., who have proudly served  this great country with the highest levels of distinction, have found  themselves targeted and dismissed.

We must be real about the moment that we face. These policies and  cuts are not just policy decisions. They are about undermining the  fundamental justice and equity of the United States, about erasing our  history and turning back the clock on the progress of countless  generations who have struggled and marched and fought to move this  country forward.

That is why we must and we will continue to fight back in Congress,  in the courts, and in our communities, and to continue that work of  bending the arc of the moral universe and this country toward justice  because this is the work ahead for all of us and the work we will and  must do.