Devastating Harm Caused By Trump Administration


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, it is like the changing of the seasons.  There is a consistent pattern across our economy year after year.  Democrats rescue and build an economy that empowers workers, that  invests in American-made jobs, that invests in our infrastructure and  our people just as we did in passing the largest bills in generations  over the last several Congresses: the bipartisan infrastructure bill,  the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, which not  only invested millions of dollars in communities all across the United  States but created countless jobs and opportunities for our people.

Just like that, a President like the current President comes in, just  as he has done twice, and drives up the deficit, borrows against our  children's futures, and takes American taxpayer dollars to give  billionaires permanent tax credits. Unemployment rises, families fall  behind, and the damage is done. Then we are called upon to pick up the  pieces once again, put people back to work, and restore stability to  our economy.

If you are wondering what season we are in now, all you have to do is  take a look at the headlines: ``Grocery inflation highest since 2022 as  Trump tariffs pile on.'' Or this one: ``Poorer Americans hit hardest as  tariffs fuel price rises.''

Mr. Speaker, it is a cold winter for families across America under  Trump's America, under his failing economic plan, and tariffs that are  not even legal and which this House of Representatives, under the GOP,  voted yesterday on a rule with language to abrogate their  constitutional authority to rein him in. I watched them flip the votes  on the floor as they gave away our constitutional authority to hurt  American workers.

Long-term unemployment is reaching heights we haven't even seen since  the beginning of the pandemic. Grocery prices are more expensive than  they have ever been. Inflation is forcing Americans to live on credit  cards. Housing is so expensive that young people can't even move into  their own homes. People can't access the most basic healthcare in this  country right now. That is Trump's economy.

As we take stock of where this economy stands today, I think it is  pretty damn clear why Donald Trump went bankrupt six times. He is  literally bankrupting this country and the hardworking people that are  its backbone. The livelihoods of our communities are on the line, not  poker chips in one of his Atlantic City casinos.

These are farmers, ranchers, working people, families whose lives  hang in the balance.

In New Mexico, our farmers are being crushed under the weight of  these tariffs, losing export markets, watching the USDA programs, that  once purchased homegrown, healthy foods to put into our schools and  food banks, dry up.

Here is another headline: ``Farmageddon. Many U.S. farmers are  warning that they are at a breaking point,'' a breaking point, just  like our families, farmers who depend on reliable markets.

When the President imposes tariffs on our allies, depending on which  way the wind is blowing on any given day, he forces hardworking people  in this country into financial ruin.

The result is only the largest corporations and the rich get richer,  driving the prices up, driving small farmers out, consolidating our  food system, and pushing the American Dream, just basic dignity,  further out of reach for our people.

For me, this is personal, Mr. Speaker, because I grew up in a working  family where people in my family worked multiple jobs and still  struggled to get by, where we didn't have access to healthcare, where  we didn't always have access to reliable housing.

Mr. Speaker, this is personal. In New Mexico, there are thousands of  families who are struggling just to make it to the end of the month.

I will say that, despite the darkness, New Mexico is leading the way  and showing what it looks like to lead with integrity and invest in an  economy that will make it possible for families to thrive.

In fact, in just a couple of weeks, on October 1, our State  legislature will convene in the wake of Republicans' disastrous big,  ugly bill, which will gut healthcare and food assistance programs, to  actually shore up the programs that will save and support thousands of  lives in our State. They will invest in food and healthcare programs  and fix the public broadcasting funding that my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle blew a hole through when the majority passed the  rescissions package.

Perhaps the most consequential legislation and policies that New  Mexico has announced in the last several weeks are that we are now  officially the first State in the Nation ever in the history of this  country to guarantee universal free childcare. That is going to put  over $12,500 back into the pockets of every working family in New  Mexico.

That is real money. That is money for putting a roof over your head.  That is money for putting food on the table. That is money to go back  to school. That is what it looks like when you invest in working  families.

In addition to that, New Mexico is the only State in the Nation that  guarantees free college. Whether you want to go to trade school or get  a higher education degree in graduate school, in New Mexico, you are  going to do it without debt because we understand that the future of  our country, economy, and communities depends on investing in people,  not taking away the vital programs that support them.

Every day, I am working on behalf of our communities to invest in  early childhood education, entrepreneurial  programs, bringing millions of dollars home for infrastructure, youth  programs, healthcare, behavioral health, and clinics back in New Mexico  because we know that that is how you deliver for real working people.

Mr. Speaker, the seasons may change, but we know this cycle is going  to go on. Families in New Mexico and across the Nation are going to  continue to pay the price for your billion-dollar tax breaks.

Americans literally cannot afford this economy. They can't afford  this administration or the GOP's leadership here in this House.

That is why we are here to speak up, speak out, fight back, and stop  the damaging programs that are eviscerating our economy and harming our  communities. We know the season will change, and we know we will come  back and invest in hardworking American families. Until then, we call  upon our States, Tribal, and local leaders to do what they can. They  should know that we are here in the fight for real Americans.