Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I want to start by saying welcome back to  my friends across the aisle. It is really nice to have them back here  in the people's House, especially after last week.

Their leadership shut down the United States House of Representatives  rather than accommodate new moms voting remotely with a newborn child.  Stellar work, my friends. You have simultaneously managed to shut down  the House and enrage millions of moms across America.

The American people actually want a government that represents them,  and that is why they are also outraged by the agenda that Republicans  have in this rule and are putting on the House floor this week,  including the SAVE Act, which would disenfranchise millions of  Americans, including millions of married women. You refuse to take up  an amendment that would protect them, so congratulations to my friends.

How about the No Rogue Rulings Act that is also being heard this  week? It would undermine the courts.

There are a couple of bills to roll back consumer protections to keep  banks from ripping them off.

Is that your agenda? That is it? You are going to rip off American  consumers, undermine their voting rights, undermine the judiciary, and  insult moms? Cool. Yes, this sounds like a great agenda.

Oh, I forgot, you are also going to tank the economy while Donald  Trump is playing golf, and you are going to try to pass a budget that  literally will cost the American people $37 trillion over the next 30  years while gutting their Medicaid and their food and housing  assistance.

Now, luckily, the American people are not falling for it, and  millions of Americans are speaking out and marching in the streets. It  is because of their actions that Elon Musk--thank you very much--is  finally leaving the building.

Make no mistake, this agenda will continue, as we see here this week.  That is why it is vital that the American people continue to speak up  and speak out, keep marching, keep showing up, and keep telling these  folks that we reject their agenda and its harmful impacts to the  American people, and we will not allow it to continue.