Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Increasing Investor Opportunities Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Electric Supply Chain Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Interagency Coordination for Pipeline Reviews Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery; and for Other Purposes


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I could not agree more that we need a fix to healthcare  now--not tomorrow, not next week, not next month, but today. Put your  cards on the table, my friends. We want to see your fix to healthcare.  We are ready to pass an extension of the ACA, and the people of this  country cannot wait.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the rule on the floor.  There is so much going on in this rule: the NDAA, the INVEST Act, a  bunch of so-called permitting bills that will gut environmental  protections. But I rise, in particular, to advocate for an amendment  that I submitted to this package to stop the President from bulldozing  more public buildings, including further changes to the White House  that they are planning right now.

The President has already bulldozed the East Wing of the White House,  a public treasure visited by millions, to build a private ballroom for  himself and his billionaire friends. There were no hearings, no public  input, and no regard for the law. Now the White House is quietly  soliciting bids to repaint another White House building and to demolish  four more historic Federal buildings here in Washington, D.C.

They are shopping our shared heritage to the highest bidder. Yes,  those bidders just happen to be some of the President's personal  friends and campaign donors. This is corruption happening in broad  daylight, right in front of our eyes.

Mr. Speaker, these Federal properties belong to the American people,  not to Trump's real estate empire.

My amendment, which is based on the bill that I will file in the  coming days, is urgent. It stops the President and any Federal official  from unilaterally demolishing, selling, remodeling, or giving away the  buildings that we own as the American people. It restores enforcement  and accountability that existing laws already provide but that this  administration is ignoring, and it increases the penalties to ensure  accountability.

Mr. Speaker, the Supreme Court is on the verge of overturning 80  years of precedent, stripping away independent agencies of the power to  say ``no'' to a President. When that happens, the guardrails will  disappear.

Mr. Speaker, we will stand here on the House floor and say to the  executive branch: In the people's House, you do not have this  authority. You do not have it now. You did not have it then. We will  make sure that the law is clear.

We are reaffirming the separation of powers before the Supreme Court  attempts to dismantle it, and we cannot wait another day. We know the  bulldozers are coming.

Mr. Speaker, I urge every Member who believes in coequal power on  both sides of the aisle to vote ``yes'' to this amendment. Stand up for  the Constitution, stand up for our shared history, and stand up for the  American people.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how  much time is remaining.