Rewriting History


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight during Black History Month  to raise the alarm on the rewriting of American history that is  happening at our national parks, our museums, our monuments, and our  public spaces as the Trump administration is attempting to erase the  histories, the stories, and the lives of our Black, Native, Chicano,  AAPI, and LGBT+ communities.

I rise tonight to talk about what this means for the past, the  present, and the future of this country because, as they say, those who  cannot remember the past are doomed to repeat it, and this country has  come too far to forget.

Mr. Speaker, how we as a nation remember matters, what we remember  matters, and who we remember matters because this collective memory is  the map on which we build our future. Our Nation's national parks, our  monuments, our memorials, our museums, and our public spaces are the  places in which those memories are inscribed.

Now, I begin tonight with a simple premise: that the act of  remembering is a deeply political and a deeply powerful act. So, too,  is the act of erasure, of erasing and removing history. These are not  merely acts of omission, but acts of power, acts of dominance, and,  yes, even acts of violence.

Erasing is about telling people that their histories and their people  do not matter. That your history, your ancestors, and your collective  memories of pride, joy, struggle, resilience, and generations that came  before do not matter.

This is exactly what this administration is doing. They are trying to  take us back to a time where only the stories and lives of the few  mattered. It began a year ago, on day one, when the President signed an  executive order renaming Denali, the tallest mountain in Alaska and  most sacred site to multiple indigenous communities, renamed after a  President from Ohio without any consultation to the indigenous people  of Alaska.

That same day, the President signed an executive order mandating the  elimination of diversity, equity, and inclusion offices across the  Federal Government, leading to the illegal firing and loss of  leadership across Federal and military service.

In March, he signed another executive order called the ``Restoring  Truth and Sanity to American History'' order, directing the Smithsonian  and the Secretary of the Interior to remove what they called improper  partisan ideology from exhibits and materials across the country.

It targeted mentions of slavery, Native American history, Chicano  history, AAPI history, LGBTQ+ history, climate change, and other topics  which they claimed were divisive, anti-American, and created ``national  shame,'' thereby erasing the history of tens of millions of Americans.

Secretarial orders, including those at the Department of the  Interior, that have led to the censorship of government websites and  the tearing down of signs at multiple monuments, references to the  histories of famous leaders removed from websites, national holidays  erased, rewriting history and removing us from the American story.

What is this all in service of? It is promoting some singular  narrative to undermine the recognition of this Nation's true history  and its long history of struggles that have shaped it, from overcoming  the loss of land, the killing and displacement of indigenous people,  slavery, Jim Crow, internment, and the continued struggle for justice  across our communities.

This is our true history as a nation, not something we should be  ashamed of, but what has shaped who we are. These actions erase the  story of what makes this great Nation beautiful: it is multicultural,  multiracial, indigenous, Black, Brown, White, and diversity that makes  us who we are.

This erasure delegitimizes the movements and wins we have secured  generation after generation, from the struggle for civil rights at  Selma and the Edmund Pettus Bridge, slavery at Gettysburg, and westward  expansion into Tribal lands that secured Tribal sovereignty.

References to transgender were erased from the signs at Stonewall,  where the birth of the modern LGBTQ+ movement began. References to  indigenous history were removed in places where people came from,  including the battleground at Little Big Horn in Montana. Memories of  Black and Native history were erased from Independence Park, Cape  Hatteras, and The National Mall.

Remembrance of internment of Japanese Americans was removed from  Jamaica Bay in New York City. References to climate change were removed  at Fort Sumter in South Carolina and Acadia National Park in Maine.  Public institutions and gift shops were banned from carrying books. In  America, they were banned.

In addition, the Department of Education is seeking to defund  schools, universities, and institutions for teaching the history of the  people and students and children who are there.

Mr. Speaker, these are not isolated incidents. This is a wholesale  attack on American history, on American democracy, on American  progress, and the stories of our people. It is, at its core, about  power. As George Orwell noted: ``Who controls the past controls the  future. Who controls the present controls the past.''

This is not, as this administration claims, about patriotism or  telling the American story. It is about controlling knowledge and  history itself. Those whose histories, whose stories, and whose people  are lifted up, especially as this country is celebrating its 250th  birthday.

We are here tonight to say: Not on our watch. We will not let this  country slide into an Orwellian or authoritarian state where we cannot  even tell our own histories.

We are here to tell the truth, just as history does.

Matsui).

Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congresswoman for her  extraordinary words and for sharing her story with us tonight.

Ms. STANSBURY.  Scanlon).

Ms. STANSBURY.  Tokuda).

Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Ms. STANSBURY.