Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, there are days, increasingly so, when I  cannot believe my eyes and my ears in this  Chamber. It is about 7 p.m. East Coast time. It has been a long day. I  just came from the Oversight Committee where we just subpoenaed  additional witnesses in the Epstein investigation including potential  co-conspirators in the crimes of Jeffrey Epstein.

We spent several hours today getting a classified briefing on what  happened in the unauthorized invasion of Venezuela by this  administration and the capture of a foreign leader, as our President  and his administration are threatening to invade other foreign  countries and have failed the most basic constitutional duty of seeking  the consent of Congress and advising Members of Congress.

Today, we forced a vote on this floor, forcing all of my colleagues  to ensure that we vote to save the Affordable Care Act so millions of  Americans could have healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, we have to understand how absolutely inane and bizarre  it is to come to the floor at 7 p.m. for the first real bill of this  Congress this year and it is on showerheads.

When I heard that we were going to vote on showerheads, I literally  had to google and look up what this was all about. I was actually  genuinely shocked that the President, of course, had signed an  executive order in April, demanding that we change the efficiency  standards for showerheads.

As I often do, I went down a rabbit hole. In fact, I pulled up  pictures of the kinds of showerheads we are talking about. It was  fascinating to me, Mr. Speaker, to hear the impassioned pleas for  regular working people to take high-pressure showers in motels because  that is not why Donald Trump signed an executive order on this issue.

No, Donald Trump likes his big, fancy showers with multiple heads. We  are talking about showers for rich people. These aren't even everyday  showers.

Mr. Speaker, my question is: Why on God's green Earth on the first  full day that this Congress is back in 2026 are the Republicans using  their floor time in the midst of armed conflict and daily corruption by  this administration to run a bill on rich people's showers for Donald  Trump? It is just absolutely amazing.

Mr. Speaker, I have a little less than a minute left in my time. I  would ask my colleague across the aisle one simple question: Did Mr.  Donald Trump ask him to run a showerhead bill today on the House floor?  If my colleague across the aisle cannot answer a simple question about  why we are running legislation on the United States House floor on  showerheads, I think we rest our case.