Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700498/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Mast for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, my Republican friend from Ohio knows I deeply respect  him, his service to our country, and his consistency, frankly. That is  something that we are not seeing from many of my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle, and that is to be commended.

We have a different opinion on whether this is legal or not. We all  know that the reason we are here is that for nearly half a century, the  Iranian regime has terrorized the globe  with acts of cowardly violence through its own forces and proxy  militias; namely, Hamas, the Houthis, and Hezbollah, whom they have  provided military, political, diplomatic, and monetary aid.

They have killed approximately a thousand Americans and maimed  thousands of others, both Americans and Arabs, with roadside bombs and  other IEDs. We have seen all the videos online with drones and missiles  hurtling into malls, hospitals, and hotels. This has to stop.

During his first term, President Trump imposed a maximum pressure  campaign in response to President Obama's lack of action regarding  Iran, and that crippled Iran's ability to raise revenues from its oil  operations and fund their terror network.

How do I know that, Mr. Speaker? Because as a member of the Financial  Services Committee where all of those sanctions originated, I worked on  those very sanctions.

However, years later, the Biden administration found those moves too  far and harsh on Iran and refused to enforce those sanctions. Sanctions  are only as good and useful as their willingness to enforce them.

During this period, Iranian crude production topped 3 million barrels  a day, greater by more than a factor of seven during the maximum  pressure campaign, allowing the Iranian regime to continue to finance  its brutality internationally and domestically.

Congress attempted to reverse course by passing legislation to codify  the maximum pressure campaign measures. That is why the House of  Representatives passed my bill, the No U.S. Financing for Iran Act, by  an overwhelming bipartisan majority during the 118th Congress, to cut  off the Iranian regime from the U.S. financial system. My friends who  voted for that seem to forget.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle tend to forget that the  Iranian regime directed an assassination attempt against the current  President of the United States. Whether you like President Trump or  not, no sitting President should be allowed to be a target by a foreign  country without consequences.

Peace through strength does not mean another open-ended war of the  past. Operation Epic Fury is a defensive action using overwhelming  force to protect the American people from an imminent and growing  threat.

Additionally, it cannot be ignored that Iran was producing  conventional drones and ballistic missiles at an alarming rate, until  just this past weekend, and to provide a protective layer of defense  for its nuclear ambitions and nuclear weapons development.

Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, the Trump administration has clearly  defined the mission, the objective, and the timeline. He has notified  and briefed Congress on these operations. Simply put, Iran cannot,  under any circumstances, possess the capabilities for having nuclear  weapons.

The Biden administration's official policy toward Iran summed up in  one word: ``Don't.'' That phrase underpinned one of the most  ineffective foreign policy agendas in the 21st century. Give me a  break.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote against this resolution,  hoping to score political points by tying the President's hands in the  face of danger. It is time that we defend our liberty, our freedom, our  neighbors, and this great Nation in the face of Iran's systematic  terror.