Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699824/financial-stability-oversight-council-improvement-act-of-2025


Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague, Mr.  Foster, on the other side for working on this.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of Mr. Foster's  legislation, the Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act,  and urge its immediate adoption.

Mr. Speaker, in response to the 2008 financial crisis, Congress,  under the Dodd-Frank Act, created the Financial Stability Oversight  Council, known as FSOC, as the chairman was talking about, and tasked  them with preventing systemic risk. It was absolutely a worthwhile and  needed endeavor.

However, in the early years, the FSOC was given broad-reaching  authorities to designate nonbanks as systemically important financial  institutions, otherwise known as SIFIs.

During President Trump's first administration, the FSOC moved to an  activities-based approach in 2019, which I think was an appropriate  response in a post-MetLife court case world where the Federal  Government lost because of aggressive overreach. In fact, the judge  used the phrase ``excessive and capricious.''

Four years later in 2023, under former President Biden, I believe the  FSOC snapped right back into using those faulty analytical frameworks  for identifying and dealing with systemic risks.

Just last week, in testimony before the House Committee on Financial  Services, Treasury Secretary Bessent emphasized on multiple occasions  that the so-called activities-based approach would be preferred.

We agree.

Unfortunately, this back-and-forth guidance has not allowed  businesses to plan for the future or make new investments.

Mr. Speaker, why does a SIFI designation actually matter? Many people  watching might ask themselves that. Well, as history has taught us, it  is a broad-reaching issue that can have some very negative  consequences. Excessive regulatory scrutiny and additional costs can  change the way nonbanks conduct business.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot continue applying banklike regulations to  nonbanks that have fundamentally different business models and roles  within the American economy.

The Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act, on which I  am a proud co-lead with Mr. Foster, makes a critical improvement to the  current law.

Before a vote to designate a financial company as a SIFI, the FSOC  must first consult with the company and then its primary regulator to  determine whether alternative actions that could be proposed would be  sufficient or insufficient to address risks to U.S. financial  stability.

Well, amazingly, Mr. Speaker, those two things didn't exist  previously. There was no consultation or discussion with the companies,  and there was no consultation with those regulators. That was a flaw.  Importantly, the Council may not then vote on a proposed designation  unless this determination is made.

Let me remind my colleagues that the SIFI designation process has  been flawed from the start. First, it targeted individual companies for  designation without any process or notice.

Second, it failed to evaluate whether designation would actually  mitigate risks or weigh the costs and benefits to the company, its  shareholders, and ultimately the financial system.

Third, the old system failed to give SIFI designees due process or an  opportunity to address the perceived risk before designation. As a  reminder, the MetLife case took years to settle.

Lastly, it failed to incorporate the views of the primary regulator,  who typically would have better insight into a company's financial  standing.

Mr. Speaker, I believe H.R. 3682 adequately addresses these concerns  and improves the Council's approach to addressing financial stability  risks while creating a stronger, more predictable, and more stable  regulatory environment for all.

Mr. Speaker, I again thank my colleague for yielding, and I urge my  colleagues to support the Financial Stability Oversight Council  Improvement Act.