Increasing Investor Opportunities Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697832/increasing-investor-opportunities-act


Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the  Incentivizing New Ventures and Economic Strength Through Capital  Formation, the INVEST Act, and ask for its immediate passage.

Mr. Chair, this package of bills before the House today is the  culmination, as the Chair was saying, of literally a decade's worth of  work, bipartisan work, I might add. The time has ripened and the time  has come for us to pass all of these.

H.R. 3383 expands access to capital for small businesses, increases  investor opportunities for all, and strengthens our public markets.

Last year, as part of the committee's capital formation agenda, we  heard from everyday Americans who, despite the odds, succeeded in  achieving their dreams.

Today's bill reflects their priorities and the priorities of millions  of Americans who are looking for financial security and a better  future. I want to take a minute to highlight my bill which is included  in this package.

The Improving Disclosure for Investors Act directs the Securities and  Exchange Commission to promulgate rules with respect to electronic  delivery of certain required disclosures to investors.

Here is what that means: If you have an email, you are able to  receive these documents electronically. You are not forced, but you are  able to get it. If you don't have an email, by definition you don't  even qualify. You will not get these.

By the way, I will note, Mr. Chairman, that the standard for the  Social Security Administration is through electronic communications.

This bipartisan bill is straightforward. It provides ample time for  transition, notices to consumers, and an ability for anyone to opt out  for any reason if they choose to do so.

I was proud to work with the ranking member of the Capital Markets  Subcommittee, the gentleman from California (Mr. Sherman), to make sure  that consumer protection, especially for seniors, Mr. Chairman, was the  foundation of this bill.

There are no poison pills in here, Mr. Chairman. There are no  surprises in this. We are champions for American competitiveness, and I  urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''