Remote Access Security Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698859/remote-access-security-act


Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my friend from New York  allowing me to speak on this. I rise in support of Mr. Lawler's bill,  the Remote Access Security Act.

Mr. Speaker, America is at a critical juncture in our technology  policy. Do we want to allow our adversaries to weaponize American  technology? Do we want them to dominate us militarily and economically  in the future? Do we want to create a dystopian world and make everyday  Americans subservient to the Chinese Communist Party and their  affiliates, or do we want to make a decisive stand to stop some of the  most advanced technologies from being used against us in every facet of  our lives?

Loopholes currently available in U.S. export control allow the CCP  and others to gain a competitive advantage over American companies,  especially when it comes to cloud services for technologies that would  otherwise not be accessible in physical form. In other words, and in  plain English, you can't buy it, so you shouldn't be able to rent it  either.

The Remote Access Security Act fixes this problem by giving the  administration--all administrations--the authority and flexibility to  restrict China's cloud-based access to our most advanced AI  technologies.

In November 2025, I convened a subcommittee hearing on export control  loopholes which leave American technology vulnerable, and this is where  we extensively discussed issues such as this one. H.R. 2683 was  reported favorably out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee by a vote  of 51-0. Mr. Speaker, we can't do better than unanimous, but that is  showing broad bipartisan agreement on this particular issue.

Today, Congress needs to uphold our responsibility to the American  people to close this loophole and stop the CCP and its affiliates from  leveraging our technologies for their own military modernization  efforts and pursuit of technological dominance. Keeping this coveted  technology out of the hands of the CCP and their affiliates will ensure  that Silicon Valley, not Xinjiang, remains the center of the AI  revolution.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan measure.