-9999


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3633, the  Digital Asset Market Clarity Act. S. 1582, the Guiding and Establishing  National Innovation in U.S. Stablecoins Act, and H.R. 1919, the Anti- CBDC Surveillance State Act.

While I am opposed to these three bills, I am not opposed to the  concept of crypto itself.  But I have concerns about how crypto is currently being regulated and  the financial security of my constituents who invest or store their  dollars in crypto. Rather than considering the three bills before us  this week, Congress should consider legislation that puts guardrails in  place to protect consumers, prevent fraud, and establish an effective  regulatory framework for crypto. Instead, these H.R. 3633, S. 1582, and  H.R. 1919 fall short of creating an effective regulatory framework,  allow Big Tech and the Trump family to enrich themselves, and stifles  innovation at the Federal Reserve.

Now, Mr. Speaker, let me tell you a bit about what these three bills  would do. H.R. 3633, which Republicans are calling the CLARITY Act,  would carve the crypto industry out from current securities laws and  regulations. This would continue to expose consumers to harmful crypto  practices. Additionally, the CLARITY Act would not only enable  conflicts of interest from Trump and his family through meme coins like  $TRUMP, but it would also send the message that Congress approves of  the way President Trump is selling access to the White House. That is  why I joined Congressman Vindman in sending a letter to the House  Committees on Financial Services and Agriculture expressing our serious  concern that the CLARITY and GENIUS Acts, including dangerous carveouts  for the President and Vice President from conflict-of-interest rules.

S. 1582, the GENIUS Act, is a bipartisan attempt at establishing a  framework for stablecoins--a type of cryptocurrency primarily used for  trading crypto assets, transacting in goods and services, insulating  against local currency instability, and sending payments across  borders. While S. 1582 is a step in the right direction, it fails to  establish an effective federal framework to regulate stablecoins. The  bill also opens up a path for Big Tech and other commercial businesses  like Meta, Amazon, and Walmart to amass consolidated power over both  commerce and banking services. Each of these corporations are exploring  starting their own stablecoins.

Finally, H.R. 1919, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act, would  immediately halt and prohibit the United States from exploring the  potential benefits of a central bank digital currency (CBDC). This bill  would stifle innovation at the Federal Reserve as they research and  develop ways to meet the evolving money and payments landscape, keeping  the U.S. behind the starting line as other countries race ahead and  compete to develop and implement CBDCs. As much of our transactions  have moved away from using the physical dollar through the increased  use of credit cards, mobile wallets, and cryptocurrencies, the Federal  Reserve has been researching ways to innovate the U.S. dollar. Congress  should not stifle the ability of the Federal Reserve to meet the needs  of our evolving digital age.

Mr. Speaker, rather than putting forward three bills that fail to  make consumers safer and stifle innovation, Congress should instead  consider a comprehensive regulatory framework for crypto that will  promote the responsible development of these digital assets while  protecting American consumers and investors. I urge my colleagues to  reject H.R. 3633, S. 1582, and H.R. 1919.