Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, the Republican's Reckless Budget Scheme is  back on the House floor today, proposing the same devastating cuts to  our families and communities in exchange for massive tax breaks for  Elon Musk, President Trump, and their billionaire buddies.

I am joining every Democrat in the House and Senate in opposing this  resolution.

Apparently, Republicans weren't paying attention when Americans  across the country took to the streets last weekend to tell them to  keep their hands off our healthcare, our education, and food assistance  for our children, our elders, and our neighbors in need. I was there  speaking to my constituents, and I heard them loud and clear.

This is not the direction the American people want our country to go.

But despite that, House Republicans are using their majority to  advance an agenda that serves the wealthiest Americans at the expense  of our Nation's working families. The Republican budget is a framework  that instructs the Energy and Commerce Committee to cut $880 billion.  That level of cut is impossible without decimating Medicaid. The  Agriculture Committee will have to find at least $230 billion in cuts,  which threatens food assistance like SNAP even as food prices are  rising.

Let's be clear: Republicans are using these cuts to our neighbors to  offset their tax breaks for giant corporations and billionaires like  Elon Musk. And even after all these cruel cuts, their budget will still  burden Americans with trillions of dollars in new debt.

President Trump's `Big Beautiful Bill' doesn't do anything to address  the high cost of living or fix the economic mess created by the  President's trade war. In fact, it adds more burden for Minnesota  families who are looking for help with the rising cost of living.

Nearly 1.3 million Minnesotans--about one quarter of our state--are  covered by Medicaid. A cut of this magnitude would have severe  consequences for health care access for the families, seniors, people  with disabilities, and especially children who rely on this coverage.  That includes 172,000 of my constituents here in the Fourth District,  90,000 of whom are children on CHIP. In our district, 54,000  Minnesotans rely on SNAP to put food on the table. SNAP assistance is  particularly important to children as well as many seniors on a fixed  income. The health and well-being of our communities are under attack  by this Republican majority.

Mr. Speaker, I am voting no on this betrayal of our values and our  constituents, and I will continue to oppose all Republican efforts to  take away food, healthcare, and basic government services that  Minnesotans rely on.