Condemning the Attacks on Minnesota Lawmakers in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota, and Calling for Unity and the Rejection of Political Violence in Minnesota and Across the United States


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, Minnesota and our Nation suffered an  unthinkable tragedy in the early hours of January 14th, when our  state's elected officials were attacked in politically-motivated  shootings.

Minnesotans are devastated by the assassinations of Speaker Emerita  Melissa Hoffman and her husband Mark and the attempted murder of  Senator John Hoffman and his wife Yvette. These are shocking and  heinous acts of targeted political violence against elected officials.  They were clearly intended to instill fear in our communities.

The additional attempt that night to target Senator Ann Rest and  Representative Kristin Bahner demonstrate that this tragedy could have  been much worse without the swift actions of Minnesota law enforcement  personnel. They deserve our deep gratitude for their coordinated  actions to apprehend the suspect.

Minnesotans of all political backgrounds must unite to condemn this  and all politically motivated acts of violence. In a democracy, we do  not respond to acts of public policy with acts of violence motivated by  extremism.

The entire House of Representatives--both Democrats and Republicans  will stand united to unanimously pass a resolution condemning the  politically motivated violence against Speaker Emerita Melissa Hoffman,  her husband Mark, and Senator John Hoff and his wife Yvette. We will  speak in one voice to unequivocally denounce acts of political  violence.

But even as Congress stands together to oppose this attack on our  democracy, Minnesotans continue to mourn the unbearable loss of one of  our Nation's finest public servants.

I first Melissa Hortman in 1998 when we knocked doors together during  her first campaign for public office. Back then, I was a member of the  Minnesota House of Representatives and Melissa was a young, determined  candidate running in a district that would be difficult for any  Democrat to win--but she clearly shared our Minnesota values and  demonstrated her ability to form a meaningful connection to her  constituents.

She didn't win that race, or the next one, but six years later, in  2004 I was thrilled when she won a seat in the Minnesota House, and was  delighted when she was elected Speaker of the House in 2019.

Thanks to the work of Speaker Hoffman, together with Governor Walz  and DFL legislators during the 2023 legislative session, Minnesota's  students have free meals in school. Families have access to paid family  leave. Women's reproductive rights are protected. All Minnesota  individuals and families are supported and protected--with no  exceptions.

Melissa was the best of Minnesota. She cared about others, treated  everyone with dignity and respect, and she knew how to listen and lead,  As a public servant and as Speaker of the House, she left Minnesota  better than she found it. I will miss her dearly.

As we mourn the loss of Melissa and Mark, our hearts are with their  children, Sophie and Colin, and their entire family.

We wish Senator John Hoffman and his wife Yvette a full recovery.

As we come together as a community to heal, may we find comfort in  the words of Melissa and Mark's children:

Hope and resilience are the enemy of fear.