Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I do not support continued funding for the  Department of Homeland Security (DHS). I will vote no on H.R. 7148  because it does nothing to stop the dangerous and illegal activity of  ICE and Border Patrol agents.

The Department of Homeland Security's Operation Metro Surge, under  the direction of Secretary Noem, has brought 3,000 unidentified federal  agents into Minnesota's communities. This surge is not about  immigration enforcement. If it were, the Trump Administration would  focus their efforts on states like Texas, which has 20 times as many  undocumented immigrants as Minnesota, or Florida which has 12 times as  many.

Instead, President Trump and Secretary Noem have brought fear and  chaos to the Twin Cities and across Minnesota with this  disproportionate and punitive surge. I want to state for the record  what is happening on the ground in my state.

Minnesotans are experiencing a coordinated violation of our civil  rights by the federal government. Journalists and protesters are being  arrested in violation of their 1st amendment rights to speech. The  right of protestors under the 2nd amendment to lawfully be armed in a  public space is being questioned by President Trump. DHS agents are  entering homes using administrative warrants that conflict with the 4th  amendment protection against unreasonable search and seizure.  Minnesotans are being detained without cause in violation of the 5th  amendment right to due process. And this entire surge is being used to  attempt to coerce our state government into capitulating to federal  government demands, in violation of the 10th amendment.

Minnesotans are being racially profiled on a mass scale, assaulted on  our streets, and kidnapped from their homes. Two United States  citizens--Renee Nicole Good and Alex Pretti--were killed in our streets  by DHS agents.

Today, in my district and throughout the state, people are afraid to  leave their homes. Children are not going to school. Families are not  attending religious services. Small businesses are closed. Many of my  neighbors now live in a consistent state of chaos and fear. When they  do go out, many citizens and legal immigrants are now carrying their  passports with them. If they do not have a valid passport, which half  of Americans do not, they may resort to carrying around birth  certificates or whatever other legal papers they have.

This is not the America that I learned about as a child or that I  taught about as a social studies teacher. This is what we learn about  when we study the behavior of dictatorships and how they rule with fear  and oppression. I ask my colleagues to believe your eyes, not the lies.  This is what we are seeing and experiencing in Minnesota, and it is all  being done at the direction of the President of the United States.

Right now, in Minnesota, we are standing up for our neighbors. We are  defending our rights and the rights of everyone in this Nation.

To all who are volunteering their time and effort to drive their  neighbors, to escort children to school, and to deliver food: I thank  them for standing together. We are one Minnesota.

To the peaceful demonstrators and observers: I thank them for their  voice and their commitment. They are often the only ones delivering the  transparency that our federal government refuses to provide. For that,  they have not only experienced frostbite, but they have also been  threatened and roughed up and detained for exercising their  constitutional rights. Agents have shown up to some of their homes to  tell them they are watching them. But they continue to be a model for  our Nation of courage, compassion, and conviction.

I could not be prouder of my state and its people.

And so that brings me to my vote this week.

I strongly oppose combining Homeland Security funding with the other  important Appropriations bills in this package. I wish that it had not  been tied to funding for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human  Services, Education, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development,  Treasury, State, and Defense. As a member of the Appropriations  Committee, I know the hard work and collaboration that went into  producing these bipartisan funding agreements. However, I cannot in  good conscience support any bill with funding for DHS while this  dangerous surge in Minnesota continues and without real oversight and  constraints on ICE and Border Patrol.

I understand that some of my colleagues will be voting for this  package with the hope that we will make those changes. But,  unfortunately, in the face of this Administration's words and actions,  I cannot share that optimism. Last Thursday, White House border Czar  Tom Homan announced that there would be a drawdown of federal  immigration agents in Minnesota. When asked by a reporter that same day  whether a drawdown would occur, President Trump stated: ``No, no, not  at all.'' Considering that President Trump has rejected his own Border  Czar's intentions to reduce the presence of federal agents in  Minnesota, I have no reason to believe that the Trump Administration  will implement the reforms necessary to protect the safety of the  people of Minnesota.

I will vote no today on H.R. 7148. In the coming weeks, my vote will  depend on what controls we can put in place for ICE and Border Patrol.  We must see an end to the surge in Minnesota, and a guarantee of  independent investigations into the killings of Renee Good and Alex  Pretti, and of other abuse and misconduct by DHS agents. We must  institute changes for the conduct of ICE and CBP agents, including  restrictions on their use of force, mandating the use of judicial  warrants for searches, and an end to the use of roving patrols and  racial profiling. We must improve the transparency and accountability  of DHS operations by requiring that ICE and CBP agents wear functioning  body cameras capturing archival footage. Proper uniforms must be worn  displaying agency affiliation so that the public knows they are  interacting with federal officers. Clear identification with a unique  ID number must be displayed so that illegal behavior of an individual  officer can be prosecuted in a court of law, as with any other public  servant.

My vote against DHS funding today will stand in solidarity with  Minnesotans, to honor the lives of Renee Good and Alex Pretti, and to  demand changes that will protect our democracy. It will be a vote to  uphold the values I brought with me to Congress, which are the values  of Minnesota: honesty, respect, and caring for our neighbors.