Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.J. Res. 142,  which would override a tax reform made by D.C.'s elected City Council.  The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) runs out of funding in less  than ten days. Republicans should be using this valuable time to  negotiate a bipartisan deal to see an end to DHS's violent tactics in  the Twin Cities and Minnesota at large. But what pressing issue does  the Republican Majority want to tackle instead? They want to waste more  of the American people's time by debating and overturning local laws of  the District of Columbia.

Mr. Speaker, none of us ran for or were elected to serve as D.C. City  Council members. I have been a city council member. It is a very  different job, with a direct line of responsibility to the residents  who elect you to deal with everything from potholes to public safety.  That local representation and local responsiveness is a key part of our  democracy, and Republicans are proposing to strip that local self- governance away from the residents of the District of Columbia.

All Members of Congress are sent here by our constituents to  represent their interests, and to vote on matters of federal  importance. We are not sent here to rule on specific local ordinances  or decisions made by the cities and counties in any of our districts.  Yet Republicans have brought H.J. Res. 142 to the floor to do exactly  that. Republicans want to tell the District of Columbia's 700,000  residents that the laws and policies they have voted for, and that were  crafted by their local elected officials, are null and void.

D.C. residents deserve the same right to govern themselves as we  enjoy in the 4th District. That is why I urge my colleagues to reject  H.J. Res. 142, which would overturn local tax credits designed to  reduce child poverty and support families facing economic hardship.  Congress should never prevent a municipality from using its own locally  raised funds to strengthen their community. Today, I will vote to  defend the rights of the residents of D.C.--as I would my own  constituents--to ensure Republicans do not override these important  budgetary decisions enacted by the D.C. City Council. I will not vote  for these attempts to decide those issues for a single district at the  local level, whether in the District of Columbia or in the districts of  any Member of Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I respect the will of D.C. residents to shape their  local government through their local elections, and that is why I will  not support H.J. Res. 142. I urge my colleagues in the majority to  focus on issues of national importance, like negotiating a bipartisan  deal to rein in the Department of Homeland Security, and leave the  governing of D.C. to their city council.