Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, Minnesotans are feeling the heat, literally.  The Twin Cities have experienced 10 days over 90 degrees this summer,  and wildfire smoke has resulted in 18 air quality alerts, nearing the  record of 22 days in 2023. This is not a fluke. It's a sign of a  worsening climate crisis that threatens our life, health, safety and  economic security.

Instead of investing in solutions to this crisis, the Republican  majority in Congress is advancing legislation that would raise energy  costs for American households and businesses, make us less competitive  and weaken our national security.

Last month, the House Appropriations Committee passed H.R. 4553, the  fiscal year 2026 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. As the only  Minnesotan on the Appropriations Committee, I will vote against  advancing this bill. Its cuts will harm Minnesota and our Nation.

Our global competitors like China are investing hundreds of billions  of dollars in clean-energy development, but Republicans are choosing to  cut U.S. investments that create high-wage jobs, drive innovation and  lower energy bills for Americans. Republicans' bill slashes energy  efficiency and renewable energy programs at the Department of Energy by  $1.6 billion, a staggering 47 percent cut. For Minnesota, this cut  means we'll lose over $6.7 million in federal funding if Republicans'  Energy and Water bill becomes law.

If that wasn't bad enough, Republicans on the Appropriations  Committee voted for a 44 percent cut to the Weatherization Assistance  Program, which helps low-income households lower their utility bills by  improving home energy efficiency. This program helps roughly 1,200  Minnesotans weatherize their homes each year, saving families about  $372 annually on their energy bills. While most U.S. households spend 3  percent of their income on energy costs, low-income households often  spend 15 percent or more. Under the MAGA Republican plan, many senior  citizens and families would be forced to choose between buying  groceries or cooling their homes during record-breaking heat.

It could get even worse for these families. President Donald Trump  has proposed eliminating funding for the Low-Income Home Energy  Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Trump calls LIHEAP ``unnecessary,'' but  for thousands of Minnesotans, it is a lifeline that helps to keep the  heat on during our brutal winters.

As House Republicans' Energy and Water bill increases Minnesotans'  energy costs, their funding cuts will have a chilling effect on clean- energy jobs--a sector that has been growing five times faster than  Minnesota's overall job growth. More than 62,000 Minnesotans work in  clean energy, and more than 44,000 of them work in energy efficiency.  More than 300 local contractors alone work on projects directly  supported by the Weatherization Assistance Program.

Since taking office, Trump has been jeopardizing clean-energy jobs in  Minnesota by terminating clean-energy incentives in his so-called ``One  Big Beautiful Bill,'' canceling grants and illegally withholding funds  from state, local and tribal governments. These actions are stalling  clean-energy projects and eliminating high-wage jobs.

The Trump administration is also attacking workforce development for  clean energy. In May, the Department of Labor shut down Job Corps,  closing the doors of the Hubert H. Humphrey Job Corps Center in St.  Paul. For 44 years, Job Corps provided job training, education and  housing for thousands of low-income, at-risk youth, preparing  Minnesota's workforce to meet the challenges and opportunities of the  21st century, including jobs in renewable energy and efficiency.

We cannot afford to abandon these investments during a worsening  climate crisis. American families are already struggling with high  energy bills. But the need to develop our own homegrown clean and  sustainable energy isn't just a matter of economic security; it's also  about our national security.

The Department of Defense considers climate change to be a top  national security concern. Climate change is making nations around the  world more unstable and less safe. It's also hurting our military  readiness here at home, with sea-level rise and extreme weather  flooding our bases. Permafrost thaw is making Alaskan runways unusable.  Radar stations are at risk of falling into the sea.

Mr. Chair, we don't have the luxury of ignoring the very real effects  of climate change happening around us--especially when they're  affecting our lives and livelihoods and our national security. Future  generations will pay the highest costs of Republicans' failure to act.

As a Minnesota representative, I will fight to defend these critical  investments because Minnesotans deserve better. The children deserve  better.