Impact of President Trump's Disasterous Tariffs on Canada


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, in the last election, then-candidate Trump  ran on lowering costs for American families. He owned the issue on the  campaign trail, and he won. I had hoped that he would follow through on  his promise to ``lower costs on day one.'' But instead of working to  lower costs, the President has waged an unprompted trade war with  Canada that will cost Americans when they heat their homes, feed their  families, run their small businesses, or tend to their farm.

It's been one week since President Trump imposed twenty-five percent  tariffs on Canada. In retaliation, Ontario imposed a twenty-five  percent surcharge on electricity exported to Minnesota, Michigan, and  New York. This will directly impact Minnesotans' energy bills.  Minnesotans and consumers across this country will feel the impact of  Trump's tariffs at the grocery stores when they buy products like pork,  produce, or eggs.

With the uncertainty of Trump's tariffs, small business owners aren't  able to plan ahead for their businesses. Trump has small business  owners on a rollercoaster, trying to predict the extra costs they will  pay in this escalating trade war. Last week, my office met with Traci  Tapani, a Co-President of Wyoming Machine, a small family-owned sheet  metal fabricator in Stacy, MN who relies on Canadian aluminum for their  operations. The past few weeks have been filled with uncertainty for  their business, not knowing if Trump would roll back or increase the  tariffs. And just today, Trump imposed additional tariffs imported  aluminum, bringing the total tariffs on Canadian aluminum up to fifty  percent. This will force small businesses like Wyoming Machine to  adjust their operations once again. Trump isn't hurting Canada or  Ontario with this trade war He is hurting small business owners.

Trump's tariffs are also hurting farmers across this country who will  incur greater costs when purchasing potash, a soil fertilizer often  imported from Canada. And by inciting these trade wars, Trump is  cutting off essential export markets for our farmers.

Americans know these tariffs are going to hit us hard. Our financial  markets are in free fall because Americans fear this trade war will  push us into a recession. Dr. John Spry, an economist at the University  of St Thomas, has estimated that as long as the Trump tariffs are in  place, Americans will spend one-hundred dollars more on everyday goods  each month. In my district, I'm hearing that working families and  seniors on fixed incomes need relief from the high cost of living. They  can't afford to add money for tariffs to their already tight monthly  budgets.

Not only are the President's tariffs hurting my constituents, but he  is also damaging our relationship with Canada: an ally, a partner, and  for many--a good neighbor. Other than oil and electricity, Canada  imports more goods from the United States than we import from Canada.  They are our best customer, and we should not alienate our best  customer. I'm a former social studies teacher. I know that tariffs can  be a useful tool. But these tariffs on Canada are unprompted,  unnecessary, and make no sense at all.

As a Minnesotan, the only thing I want to fight with Canadians about  is who has the better hockey team and who can catch the most fish in  the others' waters.