Recognizing Delta Air Lines' 100th Anniversary


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and celebrate  the 100th anniversary of Delta Air Lines, a remarkable milestone for  one of the world's most innovative and enduring airlines.

As Delta commemorates a century of service in 2025, we in Minnesota  are especially proud to reflect on the deep roots this company has in  our state through the history and legacy of Northwest Airlines. Founded  in 1926, Northwest Airlines grew from humble beginnings into a global  carrier headquartered in the Twin Cities. Northwest played a central  role in shaping Minnesota's economy, creating tens of thousands of  good-paying jobs, and connecting our communities to the Nation and the  world. Its story is inextricably linked to our state's modern history.

One of the earliest chapters of that story is written at Holman Field  in Saint Paul, the city's historic downtown airport. Holman Field bears  the name of Charles ``Speed'' Holman, the pioneering aviator and  Minnesota native who was hired as Northwest's first pilot in 1926.  Holman's legacy as a fearless pilot and a trailblazer in American  aviation is preserved every time a plane lands at that field along the  Mississippi River.

In 2008, when Delta and Northwest Airlines merged, it marked not the  end of Northwest's legacy, but its continuation. Delta wisely built  upon Northwest's deep roots in Minnesota and throughout the Upper  Midwest, ensuring that the Twin Cities would remain a vital hub for  international travel and commerce. Minneapolis-Saint Paul International  Airport (MSP) now stands as one of Delta's largest hubs, carrying  forward a proud tradition of service, safety, and innovation that began  nearly a century ago.

That same spirit of innovation continues today through the Minnesota  Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) Hub at MSP. This partnership, led by  Greater MSP, brings together partners such as Delta, Ecolab, Xcel  Energy, and the Metropolitan Airports Commission in the Nation's first  large-scale hub committed to scaling production of sustainable aviation  fuel to replace conventional jet fuel. As an anchor partner of the  Minnesota SAF Hub, Delta is helping to create an industrial-scale  supply chain for sustainable aviation fuel, anchored in Minnesota.

Mr. Speaker, Delta's 100th anniversary is not only a milestone for  the company, but also a moment to honor the people who make up Delta's  legacy and current workforce. From Charles ``Speed'' Holman and the  thousands of dedicated Northwest employees who made aviation history,  in Minnesota, to the tens of thousands of Delta's current employees-- many of whom belong to a union--pilots, flight attendants, customer  service agents, and the skilled technicians, engineers, and mechanics  who ensure Delta flights are safe and enjoyable--this centennial  reflects a shared story of vision, resilience, and progress.

On behalf of the people of Minnesota's 4th Congressional District, I  extend my warmest congratulations to Delta Air Lines on 100 years of  service and innovation, and I look forward to its continued success in  the century ahead.