Rescissions Act of 2025


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 4, the  Recissions Act of 2025, because this bill undermines and outright  destroys long-held, bipartisan American values at home and abroad.

I'll start right here at home. This bill makes an unprecedented  attack on public media that Americans rely on for unfettered access to  information, educational programming for kids, cultural programming, as  well as nationwide emergency alerting. Spanning many different  Administrations, public media has received bipartisan support for the  past 50 years because Congress has continuously recognized that access  to public media is in the public's best interest. That's why Congress  has always forward-funded public media--to ensure the consistent access  to nonpartisan, unbiased information for Americans in every state,  regardless of which party controls the White House. These airwaves  belong to every American--and they're a bargain: public media receives  less than 0.01 percent of federal spending, and yet it provides  essential services to every citizen in every part of this country.  That's roughly $1.60 per taxpayer. Public media is the country's only  local, no-cost, commercial-free, nonprofit news and information  service, and passing this bill puts this service at great risk. For  stations like Minnesota Public Radio, valued services will be eroded.  For many smaller stations in rural communities across the country,  these cuts will prove utterly devastating. They will not survive,  resulting in news deserts for these communities.

This bill also rescinds billions of dollars in lifesaving and life- affirming international assistance--another in a long line of cruel  decisions from this administration to abdicate U.S. leadership abroad  and put millions of lives at risk. If enacted, H.R. 4 will rescind over  $8.3 billion in foreign assistance funding already appropriated by  Congress on a bipartisan basis. The recissions in this bill will cut  lifesaving  food assistance for families, emergency services for families fleeing  conflict, agriculture development programs, and core nutrition services  for children under five--just to name a few. This bill even goes as far  as to cut the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or PEPFAR, a  historically bipartisan and uncontroversial program that has saved an  estimated 26 billion lives since its inception. Not only will this bill  have devastating impacts on the lives of millions of children and  families around the world; the cuts in this bill will actively make our  country less safe. Our Nation's ability to prevent conflict, eradicate  extremism, and promote democracy will be utterly destroyed--and our  adversaries are eager to step in.

Mr. Speaker, for these reasons and many more, I strongly oppose this  legislation and encourage my colleagues to do the same.