Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 22, the  Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act, or the SAVE Act, which does  nothing to protect voting rights.

House Republicans are advancing a bill that would disenfranchise  millions of women and other Americans through a federal takeover of  state election administration that makes it harder to vote. Sixty-nine  million American women--one out of four Americans would face an  additional burden to register to vote simply because they changed their  last name after marriage. Simply put, this Republican bill is about  voter suppression.

In 2012, Minnesotans rightly rejected a state constitutional  amendment that would have imposed voter ID requirements. Each election,  Minnesotans turn out at the highest levels in the nation to participate  in elections that are free, fair, and secure.

Under the guise of election integrity, the Republicans' H.R. 22 would  require Minnesotans and every American to provide burdensome  ``documentary proof of citizenship''--similar to what Minnesotans  already rejected--in order to participate in federal elections.  Standard REAL IDs, Tribal IDs and military IDs alone do not meet this  bill's extreme criteria. Married women or others whose name doesn't  match their birth certificate would be required to present a passport  with their current name to prove their identity and citizenship. In  states like Minnesota with same-day registration, all new registrants,  and those updating their registration as the result of a move or a name  change, would be mandated to present their birth certificate and  matching ID or a passport at the polls in order to vote.

Nearly half of Minnesotans don't have a passport, meaning millions of  voters would need to obtain one. Collectively, Minnesotans could be  forced to spend over $320 million dollars, with passport applications  costing more than $130 each and taking weeks for processing.  Republicans have essentially mandated a poll tax to access the  fundamental right to vote.

Congress should be following Minnesota's lead and working to make it  easier for Americans to vote, not putting up roadblocks. Congress  should pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act that would  reinstate many of the protections in the Civil Rights Act of 1965 that  were undercut by the Supreme Court in their Shelby County v. Holder  decision in 2013. The bill would expand automatic voter registration  and allows for same day voter registration and protects against race- based discrimination at the ballot box. The John Lewis Voting Rights  Advancement Act passed the House in 2021, but House Republicans have  continued to refuse to bring the bill to the House Floor for a vote.

Again, I oppose H.R. 22, the Republican SAVE Act, and I urge my  colleagues to join me in voting NO.