Business Before the Senate


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, so let's talk about what is going to  happen in the Senate in this period, in this work period.

Now, we convene at the start of this pivotal work period. This week,  Republicans are expected to begin marking up the text of their  reconciliation bill.

With so many problems facing our country, with a threat of recession  on the horizon, with tariffs driving costs up, and Elon Musk taking a  meat cleaver to Social Security, to veterans' care, and to cancer  research, what are Republicans in Congress spending their time on? They  want to cut taxes for billionaires and make working people pay for it.  They want to add over $52 trillion--trillion dollars--to the national  debt. I think of my grandson when I think of that. They want to make  the biggest cuts to Medicaid ever. This is the Republican agenda:  Billionaires win. American families lose.

Republicans have gotten by so far with a bunch of empty and deceptive  promises that none of the outrageous cuts they propose will come back  to harm ordinary Americans. But their rhetorical runway is quickly  going to run out. Soon, they will have to show everyone the real  details of their legislation, and it is not going to be pretty.

Even if Republicans pass a fraction of the cuts they are proposing to  Medicaid, it would devastate communities--urban, suburban, and  particularly rural. The cost of healthcare will come up for those least  able to afford it. Healthcare workers would lose their jobs. Millions  could lose coverage. And for what? So billionaires can pay less in  taxes. It is a revolting--thoroughly revolting--agenda.

Democrats will vehemently oppose this bill and all the harmful  elements of the Republican agenda at every opportunity.

Tomorrow, as I said a moment ago, Senate Democrats will take to the  floor to highlight the disaster of Trump's first 100 days.

On Wednesday, we will take to the Senate steps and join in one voice  with our House counterparts to decry the ways this President has  already--already--only 100 days in, failed our country.

In the coming weeks, we will continue to oppose deeply unqualified  nominees who have no business serving in government. We have seen that  already, for instance, with the antics of Mr. Hegseth.

We will also fight Donald Trump's disastrous trade war. Soon, the  Senate will vote on bipartisan legislation I cosponsored with Senators  Wyden, Kaine, and Paul that nullifies Donald Trump's trade war. To  nobody's surprise, the President has already threatened to veto this  bill.

Senate Republicans who know how bad tariffs are for their States  should join us to nullify Donald Trump's trade war and ignore his veto  threat, and, if necessary, we should override the President's veto.  These tariffs are so bad and are already pushing America into  recession.

``Recession'' is an economic word for shrinking growth. But what does  it mean to American families? More likely to lose a job, harder to find  a new job, more likely to have prices go up and not be able to afford  those price increases.

Finally, Senate Democrats will do what Senate Republicans refuse to  do: conduct oversight on this administration. We will do it on our own.  That means pushing for investigations into the leadership failures at  the Pentagon. What Hegseth did there was horrible. It means pushing  back against attacks on Social Security. It means resisting the  defunding of public resources like PBS. It means exposing the chilling  arrests of Americans without due process.

Day after day after day, we will hammer home the Republican agenda,  and Americans will see the difference between Democratic unity and  Republican disarray.

It is no wonder Republicans are in such disarray--House Republicans  fighting with one another, Senate Republicans fighting with one  another, and Senate and House Republican leadership not even on the  same page. That is incredible. Why? Because their programs are so  unpopular with the American people.

Democrats are united in our mission to lower costs for families,  protect healthcare, defend American democracy. Meanwhile, Republicans  are at loggerheads with each other.

As I said, House Republicans are fighting among themselves. Senate  Republicans are fighting among themselves. Leadership in both Chambers  are at odds. And why do Republicans face this situation where they are  so at odds with one another? The simple answer is, again: because their  agenda is so unpopular with the American people, and neither House--and  no Republican Senator--wants to be left holding this hot potato.

The backlash Republicans are getting from the public--whether it is  town halls, in the streets, or through dismal polling data--should  serve as a warning to our colleagues on the other side: If they proceed  with their agenda, the political outcry will be enormous, just  enormous.

So as long as Donald Trump pushes America down the dangerous road we  are already on, he will face resistance from Democrats, from the  courts, and, most importantly, from the American people themselves.