Central Texas Floods


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, we continue to pray for the families of  the 132 people now confirmed dead in Central Texas. We continue to pray  for everyone still missing. We thank our heroic first responders who  risked their lives to save those trapped in the storm.

Now, in the aftermath of the tragedy in Texas, some of us asked very  necessary questions about how to prevent something like this from ever  happening again: Did Federal funding cuts hinder rescue efforts? Did  staffing shortages make it harder to respond?

Of course, Donald Trump didn't like these questions. He threw a fit,  a tantrum. He called them lies. He said they were inappropriate. That  is how he talks.

We know now why he threw a fit and acted so defensively--because,  sadly, we may well have been right. Donald Trump and Kristi Noem have  spent months attacking FEMA, calling for its elimination, slashing its  budget, and hollowing out its workforce. And, now, their own chaos is  catching up with them in the worst, worst way.

Now, they are trying to change their tune, saying they don't want to  get rid of FEMA. A few months ago, they were all for getting rid of it.  Now, they say they just want to change it. But there aren't enough  walk-backs or pivots in the world to erase the truth. Their actions  have unnecessarily harmed America's disaster response ecosystem.

Last week, I demanded an investigation into what role, if any, the  administration's staff cuts to local and National Weather Service  stations played in this tragedy. It is now clear that the  administration fired key FEMA personnel during and, sadly, after the  tragedy. So, today, it is very clear: This is a systemic problem that  exists in Texas, extends beyond Texas, beyond the National Weather  Service, and across FEMA.

Here are the facts about FEMA: A day after the Texas flooding, FEMA  laid off workers--hundreds of call center workers. On July 7, the  Agency received 16,000 calls and only answered 2,000 of them, around 16  percent.

Secretary Noem, meanwhile, issued a directive on July 11 saying that  all DHS contracts of over $100,000 had to be personally approved by  her, according to the New York Times--including, according to the New  York Times, deployment of search and rescue teams. Every one of them  had to be signed off.

This is not efficiency. This is adding redtape in the midst of a  crisis, authored by Kristi Noem herself. Experts say this ill-advised  decision very likely hindered recovery efforts.

As it stands today, FEMA is operating with a quarter fewer staffers  compared to 18 months ago--one-quarter fewer--including senior-level  officials, meteorologists, institutional experts, people who coordinate  with public officials and other levels of government to respond to  natural disasters.

In the middle of a natural disaster, Donald Trump and Kristi Noem are  sowing chaos at FEMA, and their incompetence is putting lives in  danger.

They and the DOGE people and so many around them, they have this  fanatical dislike of all government, and so they just cut it. They  don't even know what the effect will be. They don't even care. Just  cut, cut, cut. Cut meteorologists who warn our people, our citizens,  our farmers, our businesses of dangers that might come? Cut them? They  are not waste.

Their recklessness is hurting rescue efforts. It has hurt the  existing ones, and it is going to hurt more in the future, unless they  reverse themselves.

We all support making Agencies like FEMA more efficient. Americans  support cutting waste. Americans support improving the Federal  response. But Americans sure as hell don't support DOGE-like cuts to  vital places that can often be the difference between life and death.

The American people do not support this kind of chaos, this chain-saw  approach to FEMA, to the National Weather Service, and to government at  large. What Donald Trump and Kristi Noem are doing is chaos, and it is  going to lead, unfortunately, to even more people getting hurt when the  next disaster arrives.