Department of Homeland Security


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, now as for reining in ICE, right now  Americans from all walks of life--left, right, and center--agree that  the status quo with ICE cannot continue and Congress needs to make a  change. What is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the  country is not law and order. It is thuggery--thuggery.

Here is what former border control head Greg Bovino said recently in  a video that circulated online:

Arrest as many people [who] touch you as you want to. Those       are general orders, all the way to the very top.

That is the rhetoric of police states. That is precisely the abuse  that Congress needs to stop. That is why we were so intent on splitting  off the Homeland Security bill from the rest of the funding bills, so  we could focus on it, so we could rein it in--rein in ICE--and end the  violence.

Republicans need to take a good look at what is happening around the  country and realize, too, that it is time to rein in ICE's abuses. We  should be going after ``the worst of the worst,'' as the administration  says, instead of unleashing fear and chaos on everybody else.

What Democrats want is exceedingly reasonable. We need to end roving  patrols. That means arrest warrants and ending racial profiling.

Second, we need real accountability, having ICE abide by the same  rules as local police do, including independent investigations of ICE.

And, third, masks need to come off. Cameras need to stay on. Officers  need visible ID. No secret police.

These changes are as common sense as it gets. There is nothing  insane, as some Republicans think, asking Federal agents to respect the  Fourth Amendment. It does not criminalize law enforcement to ask them  to identify themselves and follow the same basic code as other law  enforcement.

This idea that Johnson has that ICE people should be able to wear  masks--police officers don't wear masks all across the country. And if  anyone needs to be identified, it is these abusive thugs who are in the  Border Patrol, who are in ICE.

If Republicans can't come to the table on these very sensible  changes, then the violence we see happening around the country is going  to continue.