National Protests


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, second, I would like to take a moment and  step back and share a quick word on the events of this weekend--the  good and the bad alike.

On one hand, this weekend we witnessed one of the largest peaceful  demonstrations in American history. Nearly 5 million Americans took to  the streets and made their voices heard against the rise of  authoritarianism on our shores. I was proud to be one of them. We  gathered in the streets. We gathered in front of State capitols. We  gathered on beaches and at national parks and in cities and towns, big  and small alike. For the most part, the demonstrations were peaceful.  In some cities, there were acts of unlawful disruption, and those who  broke the law should be held accountable. I have always been clear that  the right to free speech is fundamental but must be exercised  peacefully.

But, again, for the most part, the millions who marched this weekend  did so peacefully. In many cities, there wasn't a single incidence of  lawbreaking. In fact, the demonstrations were much more than just  simply peaceful; they were inspiring. After all the attacks we have  seen this year against our institutions and our values, it is so  comforting to know that the roots of democracy run deep in this  country; and even though we may disagree fiercely, the marches remind  us we can stand up for our country and our democracy while still  keeping the peace.

What happened in Minnesota, however, should be a warning. Political  violence is not just on the rise in America; it is becoming all too  normal, and it falls on all of us to stop it. When lawmakers are shot  in their own homes, when a Governor's mansion is set ablaze, when the  spouse of a Speaker of the House is nearly beaten to death, when a  violent mob storms the U.S. Capitol, and when a gunman tries to  assassinate the President of the United States, it is not enough to  just condemn these acts and move on. We need to recognize something  needs to change. Condemning violence is only the first step-- necessary--but a first step. We must all work together to address  violence's root causes. We must take a serious look at the toxic forces  that are radicalizing too many Americans into embracing violence.

Most of all, when violence strikes, the answer is for us to come  together regardless of party. That is especially important for U.S.  Senators. Sadly, we didn't see that this weekend. I wish I didn't have  to say this, but I was deeply disappointed and sickened to see a Member  of this Chamber use the tragedy in Minnesota to take cheap, political  shots at the other side on social media and risk escalating a perilous  moment. What the senior Senator from Utah posted after the shootings  was reckless and beneath the dignity of his office. For a Senator to  fan the flames of division with falsities while the killer was still on  the loose is deeply irresponsible. He should take down his post  immediately and apologize to the families of the victims.

And this isn't even about politics. This is about simple human  decency. Our divisions run deep, but we are still all Americans. We may  disagree sometimes, many times, maybe most of the time, but we are  still human beings. The victims this weekend--no matter what party they  belonged to--still leave behind kids who now will never speak to their  parents ever again.

So I say to my colleagues: Now is the time to speak with moral  clarity. Every single one of us must condemn political violence no  matter where it comes from and work together to eradicate its root  causes.

We cannot be silent because silence only serves to enable more  violence. And in the meantime, I will continue to work with Leader  Thune, with the Capitol Police, the Sergeant at Arms, and all of my  colleagues to ensure the safety of every Senator and our staffs.

This is a dark moment for America, but I believe firmly in my bones  we will endure.