Rescissions


Mr. SCHUMER. Now, on Republican cuts, this week, Senate Republicans  are set to push through the Senate a bill that betrays rural  communities, harms global health, weakens America's standing abroad,  and, worst of all, sets the stage for even more harmful cuts down the  line.

The so-called rescissions package continues a destructive Republican  pattern: Cut now and ask questions later. The same thing that is  happening with FEMA and the National Weather Service is happening right  here. Again, use that chain saw; cut, cut, cut--whether it is waste or  whether it is sinew and bone--and then later, say: Oh, maybe we  shouldn't have done that.

And do you know what? Our Republican Senators, most of them, know  this is wrong, but they are so afraid of Donald Trump.

Yesterday, he threatened that any of them who voted against the full  rescissions package that we have before us would face his wrath. What  is going on here? Does anyone stand up to these horrible, horrible cuts  that hurt the American people?

Republicans, in realtime, are cutting healthcare. They are cutting  education. They are cutting aid for our veterans.

Veterans are not getting--ask them. The veterans know they are not  getting the healthcare they used to.

And making things even worse, Donald Trump's tariffs are coming in at  the worst possible time, and in a few short months, they are going to  raise the cost of groceries. They are going to hurt small businesses  and do untold damage to our economy.

And, now, this package suffocates public broadcast. Well, did they  even know when they said they wanted to cut it--you know, Donald Trump  doesn't seem to like it--how much it helps our rural communities? It is  the only place they can rely on for local news, for weather reports.  And farmers across rural America depend on public broadcast to get  weather reports because there is no other way. Did they know that it  guts international aid that ensures America's national security? Did  they even think of the consequences, just because Donald Trump says he  wants it cut? And everyone knows he doesn't know the details of any of  this stuff.

The rescissions package is certainly troubling, but the pattern  behind it is even worse. It sets the stage for even more party line  devastating cuts in the future to healthcare, to education, anything  Republicans decide they don't like, all on a party-line vote, all  because of obeisance and fear of Donald Trump, not a conviction that he  is doing the right thing. This is a dark omen moving forward.

Our Republican friends say they fight for the middle class. They say  they fight for working people. Then they turn around and take  investments away from middle class and rural America.

I urge them--urge them--not to proceed with this bill as written.