Shooting At Brown University and Shooting in Sydney, Australia


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, we convene after a weekend of both horror  and grief. Saturday afternoon, as students were studying for finals, a  masked gunman opened fire inside a classroom at Brown University. Nine  students were injured, and two were killed. The victims were not even  20 years old. This is every father's and every mother's worst  nightmare. For now, the shooter remains at large, and we urge residents  in the area to listen  to guidance from local law enforcement.

Then, just a few hours later, on the first night of Hanukkah, on a  popular beach in Sydney, Australia, two terrorists opened fire on  Jewish Australians who gathered in celebration. At least 15 were  killed, another 29 injured. Among the murdered was a 10-year-old girl  and an 87-year-old Holocaust survivor. Also among the murdered was  Rabbi Eli Schlanger--a pillar of Brooklyn's Crown Heights community-- who welcomed a son into the world just 2 months ago.

May the memories of all those killed and injured this weekend be a  blessing.

I have warned repeatedly that anti-Semitism is a scourge around the  world that must be condemned loudly and fought vigorously at every  turn. The Jewish people have been collectively demonized, increasingly  so in the last few years. This tragedy in Sydney shows the danger--the  abject danger--of letting anti-Semitic rhetoric and action go  unchecked.

So those of us in elected office have a responsibility to speak out  against anti-Semitic rhetoric and conduct wherever it arises and  whenever it arises.

Separately, Congress must also take action against another poison of  our age, that of rampant gun violence.

Australia is no stranger to gun safety legislation. They famously  took strong action in the 1990s, so gun violence plummeted. Yesterday,  Australia's Prime Minister said the country will take another look at  their gun safety laws and see where they can make improvements. If  Australia can find the courage to act after a tragedy like the one at  Bondi Beach, Congress should certainly find the will to act after a  tragedy like the one at Brown University.

For the sake of those who were killed this weekend and for the sake  of so many lives we can save moving forward, Congress must again act  against gun violence and act against all forms of violent hate.