Trump Administration First 100 Days


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the first 100 days. Well, this week,  President Trump marks 100 days as President. It has been 100 days of  hell for American families, for our economy, and for our democracy. The  start of Donald Trump's second term has been the worst start of any  President's in modern times. He now has the lowest approvals any  President has seen through his first 100 days since they started  polling 80 years ago.

Tomorrow night, Senate Democrats will take to the floor to highlight  the disaster of Donald Trump's first 100 days. We will expose his  broken promises. We will expose his lies. We will expose the ways he is  threatening democracy. So we will take to the floor and expose Donald  Trump as a disastrous President in his first 100 days. We ask America  to listen.

On the day he became President, Donald Trump promised a golden age  for America. Today, that seems laughable. Instead of a golden age, what  Americans have gotten is one of the most chaotic, corrupt, and harmful  starts to a Presidency in modern history. Before our very eyes, the man  who occupies the Oval Office is destroying the foundations of our  democracy.

Federal law enforcement is arresting people with little due process,  even going as far as arresting a judge in Wisconsin. At least four U.S.  citizens--all of them children, two suffering from cancer--have been  illegally deported. It is sickening. It is immoral. Arrest a judge to  try to threaten and scare judges, which he has done before, saying he  is about impeachment and other things? Freedom of expression and the  rule of law are under attack. Government has been weaponized against  the free press, against academic and judicial independence, against  anyone who might disagree with Donald Trump.

Donald Trump doesn't want to be President of a democratic republic.  He has said he wants to be a King or some kind of dictator. He said:  Let me be a dictator for one day. But his actions show he wants to be  one for much longer.

Meanwhile--meanwhile--billionaires like Elon Musk have been handed  the keys to the Federal Government with little accountability.

Donald Trump claims he is a better President than George Washington,  but he takes inspiration more from the likes of Viktor Orban or worse.

So 100 days into Donald Trump's second term, what exactly do  Americans have to feel good about? Is it that Donald Trump's trade war  has pushed our country to the brink of recession? Is it that his  tariffs will cost families an average of $4,700 annually? Is it that  CEOs and business owners are warning about rising costs, empty shelves,  and an economic downturn? Maybe it is that the Dow Jones is on track  for its worst April since 1932.

The truth is, Donald Trump's Presidency is no golden age; it is a  disaster--the worst start to a new administration in modern times.

Americans are already fed up. Americans are already beginning to see  that Donald Trump has betrayed them, that Donald Trump's campaign  promises before he won election and his actions as President are almost  in direct contradiction on issue after issue after issue. They are  seeing that Donald Trump is not on their side; he is not on the side of  working families. He is on the side of the billionaires, and we are all  suffering for it.

What happened during recess corroborated all of this. For the last 2  weeks, my Democratic colleagues and I have seen Americans' frustrations  firsthand. During the Easter recess, I traveled from one end of my  State to the other. I visited six of seven congressional districts  represented by Republicans in Congress in New York, and I spoke with  small business owners, seniors, healthcare workers, veterans, local  electeds, Republicans, Democrats, Independents--people from all walks  of life. People are anxious about tariffs driving up their costs, about  inflation eroding their paychecks, and are fearful for the future of  Social Security.

Last week, I met with the owner of a women's clothing shop in Suffolk  County, a well-known woman in Suffolk County, the head of a very  successful business, Tandy's clothes, and a longtime fan of the  President. She said she proudly voted for him--right when I was  standing there--but now she said her small business wouldn't be able to  absorb the shock of a prolonged trade war, that her costs were already  up 30 percent. This is a Donald Trump voter who is angry at these  tariffs.

No one I met over the last 2 weeks believed we were entering the  golden  age Donald Trump promised. Instead, I heard worry; I heard frustration  from Republicans; I heard a lot of buyer's remorse.

Republican Members from those districts I visited are nervous,  worried, and scared as could be. They know their voters don't agree  with Trump, but they are too scared to buck him. In the upcoming  reconciliation, we will see what they do. Will they side with Trump  against what Americans need and want or will they have a little  courage? We are very, very worried about the future of this country  with so much at stake.