Venezuela


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first, I want to thank Senator Kaine for  his great leadership on this issue, Senator Schiff, and Senator Paul  for working with me on this resolution.

If there was ever a moment for the Senate to find its voice, it is  now. The Senate must act to stop Donald Trump's folly.

Today, the Senate must assert the authority given to it in the  Constitution on matters of war and peace. We must send Donald Trump a  clear message on behalf of the American people: No more endless wars.

If any of my colleagues--if any of the American people--doubted what  Trump was up to, here is what he said last night to the New York Times.

They asked him: How long are we going to stay in Venezuela--a month,  6 months, a year?

Donald Trump said:

I would say much longer.

Donald Trump is ready for an endless war in Venezuela and Lord knows  where else. The American people are not. The American people want us to  focus on the No. 1 issue they face: rising costs. They can't afford the  things they need--the affordability crisis.

And, instead, Donald Trump and too many of our Republican colleagues  are saying: Let us spend our treasure and maybe even American lives on  Venezuela and other areas far afield.

How can the American people watch this and not just groan and grimace  and ache and fear? When America has tried to do this kind of nation  building, these kinds of regime replacements in the past, it has led to  the American people paying the price in treasure and in blood.

So now we have the opportunity to stop. We are very close. We urge  our Republican colleagues to join us. Tell the American people you want  to focus on what they care about: the cost of groceries, the cost of  healthcare, the cost of electricity and other goods.

The contrast between what is happening in the House and Senate today  is glaring. In the House, there will be, from what I am told, a good  number of Republicans who will join in saying: Extend the tax credits  for 3 years.

Leader Thune has even refused to put that on the floor.

But what is happening here? The ability, the strength, the  constitutional authority of the Congress to say: No. No endless wars.  No sending all our money down to Venezuela and Lord knows what other  countries.

Again, just look at this, my Republican colleagues. Here is what  Trump said on oversight of Venezuela.

They asked him:

A year? Longer?

He says:

I would say much longer.

How many of you want to see us bogged down in Venezuela for a whole  bunch of years? If you don't want to see that, if you want to see us  focused on the costs the American people are facing and reduce them,  vote with us.

Vote yes on this very important resolution.