-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699751/9999


Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, among the bills in the funding package  that was signed into law yesterday was the State and Foreign Operations  appropriations bill. And while people are understandably focused  elsewhere, I want to take a moment to talk today about what is in the  so-called SFOPS bill and why it matters because, simply put, this bill  will save lives all around the world. It will strengthen our alliances  and partnerships at a moment when global instability is at an alltime  high. And, crucially, it will make Americans safer here at home.

As ranking member of this subcommittee, I saw in realtime the  destruction and devastation wrought by Donald Trump's illegal  dismantling of the U.S. Agency for International Development. Estimates  are that more than 760,000 people, including 500,000 children, have  died over the past year since American assistance suddenly vanished-- 760,000 people. Worse, millions more are expected to die in the next 5  years if the current trend continues.

So it is in that context that this bill is essential. It is proof  that there is still broad bipartisan support for America showing up in  the world, not just with tanks and guns but with food and lifesaving  care and economic assistance. And we do that not just because we are  the indispensable Nation and that is the right and moral thing to do-- although that would be enough--but also because projecting power in all  of its forms is smart, it is strategic, and it makes us more safe and  more competitive.

In this bill, there are vital investments in global health,  humanitarian aid, and economic and development assistance. There is  more than $9 billion for global health programs to help to fight HIV/ AIDS, malaria, TB, and polio. The funding also supports vaccination  efforts that the administration tried to eliminate and strengthens  maternal and child health programs.

The bill includes close to $7 billion for development programs  focused on economic resilience, education, water and sanitation, and  disaster mitigation. And there is a reason why we have funded these  programs for decades. Yes, our partners want them. Yes, they employ  tens of thousands of Americans. But more than that, these programs  benefit our national interests in unique ways. For instance, it is  because of USAID's war legacy work in Vietnam that we share a strong  security partnership today. It is thanks to our disaster risk  mitigation programs in the Pacific islands that we have as much access  to the region as we do.

So it is not as if we just invest this money and hope for the best.  This is not charity. This is not charity. It pays off over years and  decades.

This bill also rejects the administration's efforts to retreat from  multilateral institutions like the United Nations. It ensures that we  can pay our treaty dues to international organizations, restores  voluntary funding for organizations like UNICEF, and fully meets our  commitments to multilateral development banks that focus on economic  development.

Relatedly, the bill includes billions of dollars in funding to allies  and partners across the globe, including those in the Indo-Pacific and  Eurasia who are working to counter Chinese influence and Russian  aggression.

Now, I want to be clear: This bill is definitely not the bill that I  would have written if it were up to me. There are steep cuts to really  important programs, and we are asking our diplomats and our partners to  navigate a riskier world with fewer resources. The cuts to humanitarian  assistance are especially disappointing, and they are the result of the  administration effectively shutting down the U.S. Refugee Admissions  Program, slowing assistance for those impacted by conflict, and  reprioritizing funds for its own agenda. Our international broadcasting  grantees are also experiencing significant cuts even as they try to  provide essential information and services in Ukraine, Iran, and across  the Indo-Pacific.

And I want us to understand that what happened in the spring around  DOGE and USAID--a lot of people are not tracking some of these funding  areas, but, for instance, this is about getting our message out in  Ukraine, this is about countering the Government of China's propaganda  in the Indo-Asia Pacific, and this is about people in Iran having  access to the internet through VPNs that we helped them to get.

And so some of these programs--if you are just a tech guy and you  have been assigned to find things to cut and you read a line item and  you say: 75 million for what? VPNs in the mid--what is that? That is  what this is. All of these programs serve our national interests.

That said, there was nothing inevitable about this bill. We are here  today, a year on from the wholesale evisceration of the American  foreign assistance enterprise, enacting a bipartisan law because  Members on both sides were committed to preserving this enterprise. So  I want to thank Senators Graham, Murray, and Collins as well as  Representatives Diaz-Balart and Frankel for their partnership in  negotiating the bill. It was one of the toughest negotiations and most  important negotiations I have ever been involved in.

And I also want to thank the incredible staff here in the Senate who  worked tirelessly to get this done. On the Democratic side, that is  Alex Carnes, Sarita Vanka, Kali Farahmand, and Drew Platt, and on the  Republican side, Paul Grove, Paul Denaro. This would not have been  possible without all of you.

And now the hard work of implementation and oversight begins. We can  appropriate as much money as we want,  but we need experienced people to administer these funds. So, to that  end, while rejecting the administration's request to close USAID as an  independent Agency, this bill sustains investments in our diplomatic  workforce that provides new hiring authorities for the State Department  in order to properly manage the additional assistance. And on  oversight, we have closed loopholes and added new transparency  requirements so that Congress can better track the use of funds and  ensure that they are being spent as intended.

Just last week, Secretary Rubio committed to faithfully implementing  this bill, and now it is on all of us to work together to make that  true. There will be a lot more work to do in the months and years ahead  to rebuild American foreign assistance, but this week marks a very  important first step.