Alex Padilla


Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I have given a lot of speeches on this  floor, and this is the least prepared but the most clear I ever will  be: This is the stuff of dictatorships. It is actually happening.

A U.S. Senator was manhandled, shoved to the ground, and cuffed. He  identified himself:

I am Senator Alex Padilla.

That should be enough. That should be enough. A U.S. Senator who is,  by the way, protected by the speech and debate clause of the  Constitution of the United States and a specific statute that allows  him to oversee immigration facilities, and he says: I am a Senator, and  I have a question.

To Chris Murphy's point, they said, well, he was being disrespectful.  Being disrespectful is legal. Being disrespectful is American. Being  disruptive is OK if it is just using your words and not your body. This  is the stuff of dictatorships. And the thing that is making me most  terrified is I see zero Republicans, except for the Presiding Officer,  in this Chamber. And I understand, if it is not a member of your own  party, you want some context.

There is no context that justifies this action.

Alex Padilla is not required to be impeccable in every single way in  order  to exercise his responsibilities as an American and as one of the two  that represents California in the U.S. Senate. This is the stuff of  dictatorships.

One of the officers who throws him to the ground as he is clearly  complying, cuffs him face down on the carpet, and they say: There is no  recording in here.

It is a damn press conference. It is for recording. They didn't want  to hear his speaking.

And if the internet has got it accurately, the Secretary was there  and delivering her remarks within earshot the whole time. She has  command authority over those agents who are arresting a leader in the  legislative branch.

This is not something on the internet for us to argue about. We all  know what we saw. We all know what we saw. I remain hopeful that Leader  Thune and other Republicans can walk us back from the brink, but I am  not so sure anymore.

So as Trump's Department of Homeland Security raises the stakes and  continues with a series of provocations to justify increasingly  authoritarian actions, we have two obligations. One is to establish  that as a legislative branch, we are not going to stand for this. And  the other is those people who are peacefully protesting: Be very  disciplined this weekend. Be very peaceful this weekend.

If we are going to win, we need to maintain the high ground. And I  don't mean we blue; we Democrats. I mean we Americans who believe in  this system of government. I have never, ever--other than January 6-- been so outraged at the conduct of an administration.