Cloture Motion


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695313/cloture-motion


Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, he is right. He is asking for unanimous  consent, and we don't have unanimous consent. We do not have unanimity.

What we do have, and Senator Lankford is right, is now a critical  mass of people who are willing to entertain changes to the way that we  process nominees. That is a pretty big deal. That is a pretty big deal.

This would be the first major bipartisan rules reform, I think, in a  political generation, maybe several political generations. And it is  not your usual suspects of moderates who might be able to get you guys  to 60 but a pretty wide swath of U.S. Senators on the Democratic side  to try to reform the rules on a bipartisan basis. And we are achingly  close to doing this like adults.

It is not lost on me on 9/11 and after the terrible political  assassination of Mr. Kirk that we have a special obligation to  demonstrate that politics is a substitute for violence and not a  precursor to violence. We have to demonstrate that we can be adults.

So we were achingly close to a deal, but I am afraid that my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle have run out of patience.

I understand the overall argument about the number of nominees who  are in a backlog. I understand that argument. I am not talking about  that. I am talking about they just want to go today. They want to leave  today. People have flights today. It is Thursday, and it is not 5 p.m.

So were we to work a weekend to try to land this airplane, that would  be beneficial to the country, to the body, to Republicans and Democrats  alike. We are actually very close, and Senator Lankford knows that. I  think he is as frustrated as I am about how achingly close we are to  behaving like adults.

I don't know who it is or what the dynamic was, but about an hour  ago, everybody just said: Nah, I don't care how close we are. We are  just going to do this because we are going to start to lose Members. We  are going to start to lose momentum. The weekend is hard. Maybe we are  going to get yelled at from the left; you are going to get yelled at  from the right; and we can't withstand that so we just have got to go  through with it. It is a damn shame.

Maybe this exercise builds a little muscle memory for at least  exploring how to have a bipartisan negotiation. Maybe there is some  silver lining to this. Maybe there is some understanding that this  institution actually matters, especially in this polarized and divided  time. But I have to tell you, I am deeply disappointed at the extent to  which Members on our side of the aisle and your side of the aisle put  themselves in a position of some political peril to try to stabilize  the country and be the ballast that everybody needs across America.

We were trending well. We were trending well. I know how negotiations  go. They go up and down. They go sideways. They stall a bit. People get  a little irritated. But we really were trending well. And I am  legitimately shocked that we are like 94 percent of the way there, and  somebody just woke up and said: Do you know what? Never mind. We are  going to do the thing we were planning on doing originally.

So hope springs eternal, but this is a deep disappointment. And it  didn't have to be this way. All we had to do--and I am going to offer  this consent later, but I want everybody to understand what this  consent means. I am going to ask unanimous consent that the cloture  vote upon reconsideration with respect to Executive Calendar No. S.  Res. 377 be at a time to be determined by the majority leader, in  consultation with the Democratic leader, no earlier than Monday; and  that if cloture is invoked upon reconsideration, the postcloture time  be deemed expired.

What does that mean? It means that you would have kept your  optionality to go nuclear on Monday and not have lost a thing. The  leader would have been able to go nuclear on Monday if negotiations  never went anywhere, if they went sideways, if they tanked, and no time  would have been lost.

So the imperative to kind of get this done on a certain timeframe, we  tried to respect and said: Fine. We will just deem the 30 hours  expired. We will accommodate your imperative to get this done if you  needed to get it done by the end of next week. We said: Sure, keep  negotiations open. And we ran a hotline on that, and it cleared our  hotline.

We had some very difficult conversations with Members who hate this  idea. But just to keep the aperture open to renegotiate and to preserve  the majority's prerogative to move forward with some pace, we  accommodated that.

I thought, Great. We are trending well. We are going to wake up in  the morning; we are going to get on some conference calls; and we are  going to see whether there is a pathway.

I don't know whether there would have been a pathway, but I know  today that the majority party in the U.S. Senate decided to foreclose  the possibility of bipartisanship, and that is a real disappointment to  me.

Mr. SCHATZ.  Right? That is what you do. If you have got the votes,  you just sort of move through the process of taking the vote.

What they are asking for is unanimity, and we don't have it. And so  if you are interested in enacting this on a bipartisan basis, there is  a process for doing that. It is available to you. But, again, it is  more a matter of running out of patience than running out of time. We  are leaving probably this evening, and then we have Friday, Saturday,  Sunday off--not off. I understand people work weekends. Whatever. But  not here, let's say. And then our first vote will be 5:30 on Monday.  There is time. There is just no desire to go through the process.  Right?

So it is true--I am not actually sure that you would have 60 votes  for that, but there is a way to test it, and that is to file cloture on  a new standing order or a new resolution or whatever the procedural  pathway is.

What Senator Lankford is asking us to do is to have unanimity for a  rules change to have the Senate not vote on individual nominations.  Right? That is 15 at a time, and you have to go yes on all of them or  no on all of them. And I don't love that idea, but I was willing to  entertain it as a sort of matter of principle to try to sort of  stabilize this body. But they have run out of patience, not run out of  time.

Mr. SCHATZ.  1,  S. Res. 377, be at a time to be determined by the majority leader in  consultation with the Democratic leader, no earlier than Monday,  September 15; further, that if cloture is invoked upon reconsideration,  the postcloture time be expired; finally, that it be in order for the  majority leader to make a point of order prior to the cloture vote upon  reconsideration of Executive Calendar No. 1, S. Res. 377.

This would buy us the time we need and not cost the leader anything.