Connolly-Schatz Reintroduce FAIR Act to Give Feds a 3.5% Pay Raise in 2021


Today, Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA) and Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI) reintroduced the Federal Adjustment of Income Rates (FAIR) Act, which would provide federal employees a 3.5 percent pay increase in 2021. Connolly and Schatz introduced similar legislation last year and in the 115th Congress.

Early last year, Connolly introduced legislation (H.R. 790) to ensure federal employees would receive the same 2.6 pay increase for calendar year 2019 that was provided to members of the military for that calendar year. The bill passed the House but the Senate did not take any action. Connolly and Schatz later introduced H.R. 1073 to provide federal employees with a 3.6% pay increase for calendar year 2020.  In December, Connolly and Schatz fought to ensure the inclusion if a provision in FY2020 Appropriations Act providing federal employees with a 3.1 percent pay raise in 2020. 

"We fought hard for several consequential victories last year, but our work on behalf of our dedicated federal workforce is never finished," said Connolly. "After years of pay freezes, furloughs, and Trump Shutdowns, federal employees understand better than most that we simply cannot let our guard down while this president is in the White House. The FAIR Act is much-needed, and well-deserved, recognition of our government's greatest asset -- its public servants."

"Whether they manage fisheries for NOAA or care for our veterans at VA hospitals, federal workers in every part of this country and around the world protect and serve the American people," said Senator Schatz. "This legislation allows us to right the wrongs from furloughs, sequestration, and pay freezes by giving these hardworking public servants the raise they deserve."

In addition to Connolly and Schatz, the FAIR Act is cosponsored by: Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA), Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Rep. John Sarbanes (D-MD), Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Rep. Jennifer Wexton (D-VA), Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD), Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Rep. David Price (D-NC), and Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC).