Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, the American experiment was a radical one.  It imagined equal justice under the law. It imagined equal protection  under the law. It imagined a cumbersome system in which tyranny could  be avoided by the constant struggle between elected and appointed  leaders, and it intentionally sacrificed speed, efficiency, and  convenience to avoid the abuse of power. And so it is with unending  regret that I see what is happening. 

  I grieve for the Senate, an institution both hallowed and flawed, an  elite place in the worst sense of the word, and yet still the main  place where American problems are to be solved. To paraphrase Winston  Churchill, the Senate is the worst legislative body, except for all of  the others. 

  There are millions of Americans who have formed a basic expectation  about how a trial is to function based on hundreds of years of law and  based on their common sense. Make no mistake--what the Senate did was  an affront to the basic idea of a trial. And for all of the crocodile  tears of my colleagues, all of the fake outrage at the accusation, we  must call this what it was--it is a coverup. 

  I don't know what Mulvaney or Bolton or Pompeo would say. I don't  know what the documents would illuminate. And I believe it is normally  very dangerous to ascribe motives to fellow Senators when criticizing  their vote. But it is impossible for me to escape the conclusion that  they don't want to know; that they wanted to get this over with before  the Super Bowl, of all things. They are afraid of this house of cards  falling all the way down. 

  As I look at the Republican side of the Chamber, I know this moment  in history has made their particular jobs extraordinarily difficult,  requiring uncommon courage. They have to risk the scorn of their  voters, their social circle, their colleagues, and their President in  order to do the right thing. 

  On one level, I knew the likely outcome, but the bitter taste of  injustice lingers in my mouth. 

  On behalf of everyone who couldn't get away with an unpaid traffic  fine, is in jail for stealing groceries so they could eat that night,  who can't get a job because of medical debt, I say shame on anyone who  places this President or any President above the law. The President is  not above the law. No one is above the law. The President is guilty on  both counts. 

  The Constitution gives extraordinary powers to the President under  article II, and that makes sense because without a powerful magistrate,  the government can't function. But in granting these powers, the  Framers thought carefully about how to constrain them, and they decided  that a President could be controlled to greater or lesser degrees by  the legislature, by the judiciary, and by the voters. But the Framers  couldn't contemplate this level of polarization where, even in the face  of the overwhelming evidence of high crimes, one party would not just  exonerate him for it but, in fact, ratify these crimes. They didn't  imagine that one party would be so uniformly loyal to its President  that it could maintain a hammerlock on the Senate, preventing the  prospect of 67 votes from ever being available for removal. 

  I don't think we are in danger of the impeachment process becoming  routine; I think we are in much greater danger of making the  impeachment process moot. And if so, God help us all. 

  But all is not lost. We remain a government of, by, and for the  people. If people across the country find this as odious to our basic  values as we do, in 8 months the American public can render their own  verdict on the Senate. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT