Letter to the Hon. Mitch McConnell, Majority Leader and to the Hon. Chuck Schumer, Minority Leader and to the Hon. Richard Shelby, Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and to the Hon. Patrick Leahy, Vice Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee - Gillibrand Joins Push To Fund Gun Violence Prevention And Support Programs Amidst Covid-19 Crisis


Dear Leader McConnell, Leader Schumer, Chairman Shelby, and Vice Chairman Leahy:As you work on the next legislative package to address the novel coronavirus (COVID-19)pandemic and its devastating impacts, we strongly encourage you to include resources toaddress the specific and urgent needs of communities plagued by gun violence during thisunprecedented time.The devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including increased absences amongstyouth due to school closures, unemployment, and housing and food insecurity, have exacerbatedcommunity gun violence, especially in communities of color. Since the stay-at-home ordershave been in place, community gun violence has significantly increased in cities like Chicago,Portland, Baltimore, Cincinnati, and Louisville. In Chicago alone, gun violence has increasedover 25 percent compared to last year and in Trenton, a curfew was implemented to addressspikes in gun violence. In addition, the increase in gun sales over the last couple of monthscould continue to amplify risk factors for those vulnerable to suicide, domestic violence andcommunity violence. With gun sales soaring and stay-at home orders in place, individuals--especially youth--will be exposed to potentially higher rates of violence because in manycommunities impacted by gun violence, staying home is not safe and local recreation centersand other safe spaces are closed.Making robust investments in violence intervention programs would be an important step inmitigating gun violence during the pandemic as gun sales continue to rise and emergency healthservices are strained. Violence intervention outreach programs decrease rates of firearm-relatedviolence and homicides by addressing the underlying causes of violence, all of which haveworsened since COVID-19 has swept through urban communities. With the closing of nonessential businesses and a decrease in transportation services, community-violence interventionprograms are having an even more difficult time reducing violence. Many of these outreachprograms rely on recreation centers and libraries as office space and public transportation toreach at-risk youth. Because of COVID-19, these community organizations have had to cutstaff, programming and outreach efforts, drastically affecting their operations and ability to curbgun violence. Funding for these programs in the next package is also vital because these outreach workers serve the dual purpose of acting as first responders and violence interrupters--mitigating violence and the spread of COVID-19, as they continue to educate theircommunities on handwashing, social distancing and mask-wearing.Therefore, to strengthen our Nation's public health infrastructure to combat gun violence andgun deaths as communities rally and respond to COVID-19, we respectfully request that anyfuture legislation to address this pandemic include the following:* $100 million in designated Byrne-Justice Assistance Grant Program (Byrne-JAG)Funds. As the COVID-19 pandemic depletes local budgetary resources, emergency JAGfunds are needed to sustain lifesaving community-based violence intervention programsin cities most impacted by gun-violence. These additional funds will enable cities toretain violence interrupters, who help keep the peace, and reduce the number of gunrelated deaths and injuries that continue to burden the healthcare system during thepandemic.* $150 million for a Community-Based Violence Intervention Fund. The fund wouldallow local governments in the areas hardest hit by gun violence to develop and replicateeffective models for lifesaving violence intervention initiatives. Funds should be awardedin a manner consistent with the purposes of implementing initiatives, through strategiessuch as hospital-based violence intervention, evidence-based street outreach andpartnerships with critical stakeholders -- such as health and education providers, lawenforcement, local businesses and community leaders.Ultimately, it is critical that community violence intervention programs receive the resources tosustain their services as our nation responds to this unprecedented public health crisis. With thisassistance, we can assure that our communities emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic strongerthan ever and no one is left behind.Thank you for your consideration of this request