Qatar


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690968/qatar


Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, I cannot believe I have to say this, but  a President should not take a $400 million gift from a foreign country.  It doesn't matter which President or what party. It doesn't matter  which foreign country. It doesn't matter if there is or is not a legal  justification. No President should take a $400 million gift from a  foreign country.

I shouldn't have to explain why, but it is a high principle,  literally enshrined in the Constitution because people whom we  represent should know--not think but know--that their representatives  are focused on them and this country only; that our loyalties are not  divided; that our minds are not wandering elsewhere.

The emoluments clause in the Constitution--it is a fancy phrase but a  simple idea: no foreign gifts. If a foreign government offers you  anything but especially something worth close to half a billion  dollars, the answer is, no, thank you. End of story. Very simple. End  of story. I cannot take that. First of all, I cannot take that because  I can't have divided loyalties. I am going into the region; I can't  take a $400 million gift before I begin negotiations with you. But it  is also explicitly prohibited by the U.S. Constitution.

And the gift in question is that the country of Qatar is going to  literally provide a luxury aircraft--not just any luxury aircraft to  the President of the United States but Air Force One. And why does this  matter? Air Force One is not just a random luxury airplane. It is a  symbol of and a projection of American power. It has flown 15 different  Presidents. It carried President John F. Kennedy's body after his  assassination and saw President Johnson be sworn in under unprecedented  circumstances. It rushed George W. Bush back to Washington after the  Twin Towers were struck. And just 2 years ago, it flew President Joe  Biden to Europe for a secret trip to Ukraine during the war.

When people see Air Force One on TV, when they see it land in other  countries--whether in London or Tokyo or Brazil--they immediately know  that America has arrived. It represents not just the weight of the  Presidency but America itself, generations of history and international  leadership.

But in one fell swoop, Trump is selling out one of the most iconic  symbols of American power that we have, and what people will now see is  the most powerful man on Earth flying around in a plane paid for by a  foreign government. It is disgusting. It is wildly corrupt. And just  because they are doing the corruption in plain sight not does make it  any less damning or sad or gross.

This week, several of my colleagues and I will be asking the Senate  to vote to condemn this action. There should be 100 of us that agree on  this fundamental principle: No President should take free stuff from a  foreign government and certainly nothing worth $400 million.