Schatz Releases Comprehensive Guide To Help Hawai"i Families, Workers, Businesses Access Federal Funding, Apply For New Benefits Through Coronavirus Aid Package


U.S. Senator Brian Schatz (D-Hawai"i) today released a comprehensive resource guide to help Hawai"i families, workers, and small businesses better understand how to apply for new benefits and access federal funds established under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. The full guide provides detailed information on eligibility, coverage, and directions on how to access dozens of federal programs, including unemployment assistance, small business loans, direct cash payments, emergency paid sick leave, and mortgage forbearance.

"If you've lost your job, need help with your small business, or want more information on what kind of help you can get, I encourage you to visit our website to learn more," said Senator Schatz. "There are new federal programs and services that can help thousands of Hawai"i families and businesses struggling during this pandemic. As more federal assistance becomes available, we'll continue to work to provide more information about how Hawai"i families and businesses can access these new resources."

Schatz's comprehensive coronavirus federal resource guide will continuously be updated to reflect the most recent information and to help answer frequently asked questions.

The full guide, including links to more detailed summaries, can be found below and is available at schatz.senate.gov/coronavirus.

FEDERAL RESOURCES FOR HAWAI"I DURING THE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC

 

HELP FOR FAMILIES AND SMALL BUSINESSES

We're working hard to respond to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Congress recently passed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act (click here) and the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (click here). As a result of this legislation, the federal government is now offering several resources to support our families and our local businesses during this public health emergency.

DIRECT CASH PAYMENTS: most people will receive a one-time cash payment from the federal government. Click here to learn more.

INDIVIDUAL HEALTH RESOURCES: everyone, including those who are uninsured, should be eligible for cost-free COVID-19 testing (when ordered by a health provider), as well as other health protections and benefits. Click here to learn more.

TAX RELIEF: you may qualify for new tax benefits that are available to help cover financial needs during the public health emergency. Click here to learn more.

EMERGENCY PAID LEAVE: you could now be eligible for emergency paid leave so that you can stay at home and still earn your paycheck. Click here to learn more.

UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE: you could be eligible for expanded unemployment benefits if you were laid off or are unable to work due to the pandemic. Click here to learn more.

VETERANS: you could be eligible for new benefits. Click here to learn more.

SMALL BUSINESSES: you could be eligible for new relief to help cover payroll and operating expenses. Click here to learn more.

HOMEOWNERS OR RENTERS: you could be eligible for federal assistance. Click here to learn more.

AGRICULTURE, AQUACULTURE, AND FISHERIES: if you're a farmer or rancher or work in the agricultural industry, the aquaculture industry, or the fishing industry, you may be eligible for new benefits.