Aukus Reform for Military Optimization and Review Act


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 4233) to modify provisions relating to defense trade and  cooperation among Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4233

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``AUKUS Reform for Military       Optimization and Review Act'' or the ``ARMOR Act''.       SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

It is the sense of Congress that the President should work       with the governments of the United Kingdom and Australia to       formulate policy that would address matters of       extraterritoriality, which may present inefficiencies in       defense repair, maintenance, and sustainment among Australia,       the United Kingdom, and the United States for defense       articles and services not on the excluded technology list.       SEC. 3. MODIFICATION OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO DEFENSE TRADE                     AND COOPERATION AMONG AUSTRALIA, THE UNITED                     KINGDOM, AND THE UNITED STATES.

(a) Expansion of Expedited Review of Export Licenses.--

(1) In general.--Section 1344(c) of the National Defense       Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (22 U.S.C. 10423(c))       is amended--

(A) by striking ``classified and unclassified items, and       the process'' and inserting ``classified and unclassified       items, and apply to all exports and transfers (including       reexports, retransfers, temporary imports, and brokering       activities), wholly within or between the geographic       territory of Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, or the       United States, and the process''; and

(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Any licensing       application to export defense articles and services'' and       inserting ``Any licensing application to transfer, export,       reexport, retransfer, temporarily import, or broker defense       articles and services wholly within or between the geographic       territory of Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, or the       United States''.

(2) Report.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 15       years, the President shall submit to the Chairpersons and       Ranking Members of the appropriate congressional committees,       the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Majority       Leader of the Senate a report with respect to the use of the       expedited review process established by section 1344 of the       National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (22       U.S.C. 10423), that includes the following:

(i) An update on the progress made toward implementing such       expedited review process.

(ii) The number of licenses issued.

(iii) A list of each principal applicant issued a license.

(iv) A list of defense articles and services for which a       license was issued.

(B) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this       paragraph, the term ``appropriate congressional committees''       means the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the       Senate.

(b) Clarification of Congressional Notification       Requirement.--Section 38(l)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act       (22 U.S.C. 2778(l)(2)) is amended by striking ``the United       States, the United Kingdom, and Australia.'' and inserting       ``the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia. The       congressional notification requirements of subsections (c)       and (d) of section 36 shall not apply with respect to the       export or transfer of defense articles or defense services       subject to the exemption described in this paragraph.''

(c) Requirement To Review Excluded Technologies List.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary of State, in consultation       with the Secretary of Defense, shall review, annually for the       covered period, and every 3 years thereafter, Supplement No.       2 to part 126 of the International Traffic in Arms       Regulations (parts 120-130 of title 22, Code of Federal       Regulations)(commonly known at the ``Excluded Technologies       List'') to ensure inclusion of only those items required by       statute, or otherwise determined by such Secretaries, to       require continued licensing review for national security       reasons.

(2) Covered period defined.--In this subsection, the term       ``covered period'' means the 5-year period beginning 180 days       after the date of the enactment of this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation to improve  implementation of the AUKUS partnership.

The AUKUS partnership is a groundbreaking defense partnership between  the United States, the U.K., and Australia, created with the intention  of keeping a free and open Indo-Pacific and strengthening defense trade  between the U.S. and our closest allies.

The AUKUS partnership presents a unique opportunity for the U.S. to  strengthen our relationships with our AUKUS partners, ensure  interoperability with our most important allies in any future conflict,  and promote innovation in defense technology.

While Congress codified the AUKUS partnership last year, AUKUS has  faced numerous challenges in its implementation due to bureaucratic red  tape. Since its implementation, we have worked closely with our foreign  partners and the Trump administration to discuss the challenges AUKUS  Pillar II has faced.

This legislation addresses these challenges and will ensure that the  AUKUS partnership is implemented according to the original intent of  the partner countries, allowing the U.S. defense industry and our  allies to take full advantage of the benefits of this agreement.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, the AUKUS partnership is foundational  to our global defense strategy. We must ensure it is implemented as it  was intended.

I am proud to support this legislation to improve existing AUKUS law,  and I urge my colleagues to join me.