Operation Rolling Thunder


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the  extraordinary success of Operation Rolling Thunder, a multiagency task  force led by the U.S. Marshals Service in partnership with local,  State, and Federal law enforcement.

In just one coordinated effort, 55 violent fugitives were taken off  the streets of Spokane County in the city of Spokane Valley.

These individuals were wanted for crimes including: homicide,  kidnapping, sexual abuse, assault, domestic violence, and much more.  Thanks to this operation, our communities are safer immediately and  measurably so.

Operation Rolling Thunder carried added significance as the first- ever Homeland Security Task Force operation conducted in the Eastern  District of Washington.

By uniting Federal, State, and local resources, law enforcement was  able to focus on our region's most violent and repeat offenders;  strengthening public safety, national security, and our ability to  respond to emerging threats.

This kind of success doesn't happen by accident. It takes planning,  trust, and exceptional teamwork. I commend the U.S. Marshals, Spokane  County Sheriff's Office, Spokane Valley Police, Washington State  Patrol, the FBI, ATF, Homeland Security, Department of Corrections, the  U.S. Attorney's Office, Spokane County Prosecuting Attorney's Office,  and many other local, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies that  stood shoulder to shoulder in this effort.

I also give a special shoutout to two leaders of this operation:  Sheriff's Sergeant Patrick Bloomer and Acting Supervisory Deputy U.S.  Marshal Carson Taylor. Their leadership helped make this possible.

Mr. Speaker, this is what public safety and action looks like.                              Honoring Roger Reed

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Roger  Reed, a man whose legacy is defined not only by his distinguished legal  career but his deep love of family, history, faith, and Cougar  football.

Born in Portland in 1939 and raised in Wenatchee and Spokane, Roger  was a lifelong learner with a passion for the law.

After graduating from Washington State University and earning his law  degree from the University of Washington, he served as deputy Spokane  prosecutor and later as chief of the  Eastern Washington Attorney General's office before cofounding the  respected law firm, Reed & Giesa.

Roger was so much more than his resume. He was a history buff with a  personal library focused on the Civil War. He was a faithful member of  the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He loved Elvis, Jackie  Robinson, rhubarb, and reading the newspaper.

Roger Reed was a great man, a great friend, and we honor his legacy.                           Commending Active4Youth

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, as the father of five, with my youngest  daughter attending her very first cross-country practice today, I rise  to commend the remarkable work of Active4Youth, a community-supported  nonprofit that is transforming lives in Spokane.

Mr. Speaker, we have too many fat kids in America, and we need to get  more of them out running cross-country.

Founded 25 years ago by local teacher Heidi Bresson and her husband,  Mike, Active4Youth brings free cross-country programs to as many as  6,000 elementary students each fall. In a city where many families face  economic hardship, this may be the only chance some children have to  wear a uniform, be part of a team, and to feel that sense of belonging.

This is not a school-funded program. It exists because individuals in  our communities step up. It is working. Research from Washington State  University shows Active4Youth participants have better attendance and  significantly higher achievement in both math and language.

This is more than running. It is physical activity, academic support,  community connection, and character development all in one.

Mr. Speaker, as we begin a new school year, let us recognize the  power of programs like Active4Youth to change lives.