Preventing Iran From Obtaining Nuclear Weapons


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, this week, the President travels to the  Middle East on an important trip. It is a moment of great opportunity  but also serious risk. As the U.S. pursues deeper partnerships across  the gulf, we must remember that American leadership cannot rest on one- off deals or delusions of grand bargains. Our ambitions cannot outpace  reality.

Most importantly, Iran lurks in the background of every conversation.  Tehran is itching to play spoiler. Its nuclear ambitions and proxy  networks remain the chief threat to regional stability, yet we have a  rare moment of leverage. Iran's economy is in shambles. Its proxies are  degraded, and its air defenses have been exposed.

That is why I introduced a resolution reaffirming that preventing  Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons is a nonnegotiable American  priority. It reinforces deterrence, clarifies expectations, and ensures  congressional oversight, especially regarding any use of force.

We must not miss this moment. Iran continues to be a serious threat  and the main detriment to peace in the Middle East.                          College Sports Are Broken

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, there was welcomed news last week that  President Trump is considering a Presidential commission on college  athletics. I welcome the President's leadership because college sports  are important, but college sports are also broken.

What used to be about school pride and student opportunity has turned  into a chaotic, booster-fueled arms race. Regional conferences have  been blown apart for television deals, Olympic sports are getting cut,  and the balance between education and athletics is long gone.

This isn't the first time a President has had to step in. In 1905, it  was Theodore Roosevelt who summoned the top schools to the White House  to save college football from itself. He didn't kill the game; he saved  it by demanding rules, safety, and common sense. We need that same  leadership today, and that is why I am so pleased by President Trump's  potential actions.

Let me be clear: College sports are a highly publicly subsidized  enterprise. It runs on Federal exemptions, tuition subsidies, land  grants, student fees, and State dollars. Yet, as public dollars prop up  the system, the money is ballooning and concentrating.

According to a 2023 report from the Knight Commission, annual  revenues across all FBS athletic programs are expected to reach nearly  $21 billion by 2032. Here is the kicker: More than $16 billion of that  is concentrated in just 54 schools. While college sports are important  to the entire country, roster spots across all sports are shrinking.

That is why I introduced the Restore College Sports Act to put  commonsense guardrails back into place. It restores regional  conferences so student athletes aren't crisscrossing the country for  absurd TV contracts. It reestablishes competitive balance so the  richest programs don't write all the rules. It creates the same  transparent revenue-sharing model that protects Title IX, sustains  Olympic sports, and keeps student athletes, not donors and agents, at  the center of college sports.

Mr. Speaker, I thank President Trump for considering this action, and  I call on Congress to work together in a bipartisan fashion to save  competitive college sports by restoring competitive balance across the  landscape.