Recognizing Ron Hauenstein


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  outstanding work of Ron Hauenstein, who has served as the executive  director of the Spokane Fatherhood Initiative since 2018.

Throughout my time representing eastern Washington in Congress, I  have seen firsthand the transformative impact that this organization  has had under Ron's leadership. The Fatherhood Initiative has become a  pillar in our community, equipping fathers with values like commitment,  resilience, gratitude, and honor.

Their guiding principle and their guiding belief is simple but  powerful: When fathers are present and engaged, children do better and  entire communities prosper. Time and again, families across Spokane  have been reunited, and lives have been changed for the better, one  dad, one child, and one family at a time.

Earlier this month, my team had the honor of joining the Spokane  Fatherhood Initiative's Building Legacy gala, where our community  rallied to raise nearly $175,000 for life-changing programs.

With weekly classes, some lasting half a year, and special outreach  to men reentering society after incarceration or dealing with drug  addiction, Spokane Fatherhood Initiative is helping dads restore  relationships with their children and strengthen the fabric of our  region.

I express my gratitude and extend my congratulations to Ron  Hauenstein and everyone at the Spokane Fatherhood Initiative. Their  dedication to building stronger fathers is building a stronger Spokane  and a brighter community for every child in our community.                        Honoring Scouts Across America

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Scouts Across  America. Scouts Across America carries forward with a remarkable legacy  that began with Robert Baden-Powell, a British Army officer whose  simple idea was that outdoor skills, teamwork, and service could build  better citizens and a better world.

Robert Baden-Powell served with the British military in Afghanistan  and against the Boer in South Africa, and the ideas that he saw there  and the skills that he saw that were needed to be developed in young  boys. From that, grew a global movement and in our country inspired  what is now Scouting America, chartered by Congress to serve our  Nation's youth by instilling the values of the Scout oath and law.

As a proud Scout dad, I rise today to say very clearly: Scouts is an  outstanding program, and America needs more Scouts, not less.

It takes real effort from moms and dads and volunteers to get kids to  meetings, campouts, and service projects. That effort pays off in  character, confidence, civic service, and self-reliance of our young  people.

Eleanor and I are father and mother to three boys and two girls, and  we look forward to hopefully one day being the proud parents of five  Eagle Scouts.

Today, Mr. Speaker, let's honor the Scouts, the volunteer leaders,  the parents, and the enduring legacy of Robert Baden-Powell, whose  vision still calls each new generation to duty, service, and  leadership.

May we always support this movement so that more young Americans,  especially the young people of eastern Washington, can discover a  lifetime of impact and purpose, guided by the Scout oath and the Scout  law.