Stop Chinese Fentanyl Act of 2025


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 747) to impose sanctions with respect to Chinese  producers of synthetic opioids and opioid precursors, to hold Chinese  officials accountable for the spread of illicit fentanyl, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 747

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Stop Chinese Fentanyl Act of       2025''.       SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

It is the sense of Congress that the Government of the       People's Republic of China should--

(1) work with the United States Government to identify a       list of unregulated chemicals used to create precursor       chemicals that bear increased scrutiny;

(2) require the proper labeling of chemical and equipment       shipments in accordance with international rules;

(3) immediately implement ``know-your-customer'' procedures       for chemical shipments; and

(4) direct all relevant departments and agencies, including       the National Narcotics Control Commission, the Ministry of       Public Security, the General Administration of Customs, and       the National Medical Products Administration of the       Government of the People's Republic of China to establish new       rules to crack down on precursor trafficking and enforce such       rules swiftly.       SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO THE FENTANYL SANCTIONS ACT.

(a) Definitions.--Section 7203(5) of the Fentanyl Sanctions       Act (21 U.S.C. 2302(5)) is amended--

(1) by striking ``The term `foreign opioid trafficker'       means any foreign person'' and inserting the following: ``The       term `foreign opioid trafficker'--

``(A) means any foreign person'';

(2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``;       and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(B) includes--

``(i) any entity of the People's Republic of China that the       President determines--

``(I) produces, manufactures, distributes, sells, or       knowingly finances or transports any goods described in       clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (8)(A); and

``(II) fails to take credible steps, including through       implementation of appropriate know-your-customer procedures       or through cooperation with United States counternarcotics       efforts, to detect or prevent opioid trafficking; and

``(ii) any senior official of the Government of the       People's Republic of China or other Chinese political       official that--

``(I) has significant regulatory or law enforcement       responsibilities with respect to the activities of an entity       described in clause (i); and

``(II) aids and abets, including through intentional       inaction, opioid trafficking.''.

(b) Identification of Foreign Opioid Traffickers.--Section       7211 of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 2311) is       amended--

(1) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by adding at the end before       the semicolon the following: ``, including whether the heads       of the National Narcotics Control Commission, the Ministry of       Public Security, the General Administration of Customs, and       the National Medical Products Administration of the       Government of the People's Republic of China are foreign       opioid traffickers''; and

(2) in subsection (c), by striking ``5 years'' and       inserting ``10 years''.       SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL EMERGENCY ECONOMIC                     POWERS ACT AND THE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ACT.

(a) Periodic Evaluation.--Section 203 of the International       Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702) is amended by       adding at the end the following:

``(d) Periodic Evaluation.--

``(1) In general.--If the authority granted to the       President under this section is exercised with respect to a       covered national emergency, the President shall transmit to       the appropriate congressional committees, not less frequently       than annually, a periodic evaluation in writing that--

``(A) assesses the effectiveness of the exercise of such       authority in resolving the covered national emergency;

``(B) considers the views of public- and private-sector       stakeholders; and

``(C) discusses any potential changes to the exercise of       the authority for the purpose of more effectively resolving       the covered national emergency.

``(2) Definitions.--In this subsection--

``(A) the term `appropriate congressional committees'       means--

``(i) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on       Financial Services, and the Committee on Oversight and       Government Reform of the House of Representatives; and

``(ii) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental       Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the       Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the       Senate; and

``(B) the term `covered national emergency' means a       national emergency that--

``(i) the President has declared, within the preceding 5-      year period, with respect to any national emergency regarding       international drug trafficking; and

``(ii) has not terminated.''.

(b) Consultation and Reports.--Section 204 of the       International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1703)       is amended--

(1) by striking ``the Congress'' each place it appears and       inserting ``the appropriate congressional committees''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In       this section, the term `appropriate congressional committees'       has the meaning given that term in section 203(d)(2).''.

(3) Authority to issue regulations.--Section 205 of the       International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1704)       is amended--

(A) by striking ``The President'' and inserting ``(a) The       President''; and

(B) by adding at the end the following:

``(b) In issuing regulations under subsection (a) pursuant       to a covered national emergency (as defined in section 203),       the President shall--

``(1) consider the costs and benefits of available       statutory and regulatory alternatives;

``(2) evaluate the costs and benefits for the purpose of       expeditiously resolving the applicable national emergency;

``(3) establish criteria for the eventual termination of       the applicable national emergency; and

``(4) include in the basis and purpose incorporated in the       regulations--

``(A) an explanation of how the regulations will resolve       the applicable national emergency; and

``(B) a discussion of the costs and benefits.''.       SEC. 5. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.

(a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose       sanctions in this Act shall not include the authority or a       requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.

(b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means       any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply       or manufactured product, including inspection and test       equipment, and excluding technical data.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of Representative Barr's Stop  Chinese Fentanyl Act of 2025.

Fentanyl is the leading cause of death for Americans aged 18 to 45.  It is killing over 70,000 Americans a year, and it is flooding into our  communities with deadly force.

We know where it is coming from. The vast majority of illegal  fentanyl in the U.S. originates in China. Chinese labs manufacture the  chemicals. Chinese traffickers supply the cartels, and American  families pay the price in lives lost.

This bill holds the Chinese Communist Party accountable. It gives our  government stronger tools to sanction Chinese entities involved in the  fentanyl trade and puts pressure on the CCP to shut down the labs that  fuel this crisis.

It is time to treat this for what it is: a national security threat.

The Stop Chinese Fentanyl Act sends a clear message: The United  States will not sit back while foreign actors profit from American  pain.

House of Representatives,                                      Committee on the Judiciary,                                    Washington, DC, August 29, 2025.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Mast: I write regarding H.R. 747, the Stop       Chinese Fentanyl Act of 2025. Provisions of this bill fall       within the Judiciary Committee's Rule X jurisdiction, and I       appreciate that you consulted with us on those provisions.       The Judiciary Committee agrees that it shall be discharged       from further consideration of the bill so that it may proceed       expeditiously to the House floor.

The Committee takes this action with the understanding that       forgoing further consideration of this measure does not in       any way alter the Committee's jurisdiction or waive any       future jurisdictional claim over these provisions or their       subject matter. We also reserve the right to seek appointment       of an appropriate number of conferees in the event of a       conference with the Senate involving this measure or similar       legislation.

I ask that you please insert this letter in the       Congressional Record during consideration of H.R. 747 on the       House floor. I appreciate the cooperative manner in which our       committees have worked on this matter, and I look forward to       working collaboratively in the future on matters of shared       jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention to this matter.            Sincerely,                                                        Jim Jordan,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                    Committee on Foreign Affairs,                                  Washington, DC, September 2, 2025.      Hon. Jim Jordan,      Chairman, Committee on Judiciary,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Jordan: Thank you for consulting with the       Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from       further consideration of H.R. 747, the Stop Chinese Fentanyl       Act, so that the measure may proceed expeditiously to the       House floor.

I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure       does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of       your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives       on this measure or similar legislation in the future. I       further note your identification of language regarding export       matters that may require further modification prior to final       consideration of this legislation. I would support your       effort to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees from your committee to any House-Senate conference       on this legislation.

I will seek to place our letters on this bill into the       Congressional Record during floor consideration. I appreciate       your cooperation regarding this legislation and look forward       to continuing to work together as this measure moves through       the legislative process.            Sincerely,                                                        Brian Mast,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                    Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,                                    Washington, DC, August 28, 2025.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Mast: I write regarding H.R. 747, the ``Stop       Chinese Fentanyl Act of 2025,'' which contains legislative       provisions within the jurisdiction of the Committee on       Oversight and Government Reform.

In the interest of permitting your committee to proceed       expeditiously to floor consideration, the Committee on       Oversight and Government Reform will forgo formal       consideration of the legislation. I do so with the       understanding that the Committee on Oversight and Government       Reform does not waive any future jurisdictional claim over       the subject matters contained in the bill that fall within       its jurisdiction. I also request that you urge the Speaker to       name members of the Committee on Oversight and Government       Reform to any conference committee that is named to consider       such provisions.

Please place this letter into the committee report on H.R.       747 and into the Congressional Record during consideration of       this legislation on the House floor.            Sincerely,                                                       James Comer,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                    Committee on Foreign Affairs,                                  Washington, DC, September 2, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer: Thank you for consulting with the       Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from       further consideration of H.R. 747, the Stop Chinese Fentanyl       Act, so that the measure may proceed expeditiously to the       House floor.

I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure       does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of       your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives       on this measure or similar legislation       in the future. I further note your identification of language       regarding export matters that may require further       modification prior to final consideration of this       legislation. I would support your effort to seek appointment       of an appropriate number of conferees from your committee to       any House-Senate conference on this legislation.

I will seek to place our letters on this bill into the       Congressional Record during floor consideration. I appreciate       your cooperation regarding this legislation and look forward       to continuing to work together as this measure moves through       the legislative process.            Sincerely,                                                        Brian Mast,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                 Committee on Financial Services,                                      Washington, DC, June 13, 2025.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs.

Dear Chairman Mast: This letter is in regard to the       jurisdictional interest of the House Financial Services       Committee in matters within H.R. 747, the Stop Chinese       Fentanyl Act of 2025.

In recognition of the desire to expedite consideration of       H.R. 747, the House Financial Services Committee agrees to       waive formal consideration of the bill as to provisions that       fall within the rule X jurisdiction of the Committee. The       Committee takes this action with the mutual understanding       that we do not waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter       contained in this or similar legislation, and that the       Committee will be appropriately consulted and involved as       this bill or similar legislation moves forward so that we may       address any remaining issues within our jurisdiction.

The Committee also reserves the right to seek appointment       of an appropriate number of conferees to any House-Senate       conference involving this or similar legislation, and       requests your support for such request.

Finally, I respectfully request a response to this letter       confirming this understanding with respect to H.R. 747, as       amended. and ask that a copy of our exchange of letters on       this matter be included in the Congressional Record during       floor consideration thereof.            Sincerely,                                                       French Hill,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                    Committee on Foreign Affairs,                                  Washington, DC, September 2, 2025.      Hon. French Hill,      Chairman, Committee on Financial Services,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Hill: Thank you for consulting with the       Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from       further consideration of H.R. 747, the Stop Chinese Fentanyl       Act, so that the measure may proceed expeditiously to the       House floor.

I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure       does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of       your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives       on this measure or similar legislation in the future. I       further note your identification of language regarding export       matters that may require further modification prior to final       consideration of this legislation. I would support your       effort to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees from your committee to any House-Senate conference       on this legislation.

I will seek to place our letters on this bill into the       Congressional Record during floor consideration. I appreciate       your cooperation regarding this legislation and look forward       to continuing to work together as this measure moves through       the legislative process.            Sincerely,                                                        Brian Mast,                                                          Chairman.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, the Stop Chinese Fentanyl Act of 2025  is not just about policy. It is about saving American lives. We must  hold China accountable for its role in this deadly epidemic. Congress  must take a stand against the poison devastating our communities.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.