Tax Relief for Working Families


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate $181 million  in rural healthcare funding for the State of Washington.

Not long ago, right here in this Chamber, I joined my House  Republican colleagues to pass the Working Families Tax Cut Act, the  largest tax cut in American history.

When we voted for this, we also voted for a new rural healthcare  fund, and $181 million of this rural healthcare fund will go to  transforming Washington State. This is just the first round of funding,  part of a 5-year, $50 billion commitment to rural health  transformation.

This is $181 million to keep our rural hospitals' doors open, upgrade  critical infrastructure, expand access to emergency care, protect  maternal health, and strengthen Tribal health services.

Rural Washington is one of the best places in America to live, work,  and raise a family, and this investment means more doctors, nurses,  stable hospitals, and peace of mind for the people who grow our food,  power our grid, and keep our communities strong.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support this historic tax relief and this  transformational funding.                Baby Jay Sets Washington State's Pecking Order

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate a special  tradition of the congressional delegation of Washington State.

Just 1 year ago, I was sworn in to the 119th Congress and welcomed as  one of the two new members of the Washington congressional delegation.  If you are wondering why I have an oil painting of a baby chick next to  me right now, I will tell you that it is about one of the most charming  traditions of our Washington delegation.

``The Chick'' was bought at a charity fundraiser and presented to  then-Congressman Joel Pritchard as a gift to his office in the early  1970s.

Congressman Pritchard, as the story goes, wasn't too fond of the  painting. In true Washington fashion, he decided that the honorable way  to handle it was to regift the baby chick to the next new member of the  Washington delegation.

As such, he passed it on to Congressman Norman Dicks in 1976, and it  then went to Congressman Mike Lowry in 1979. It has been passed down  ever since, with each new Member from Washington State signing the back  before giving it to the next new, proud owner.

The only Congressman who didn't sign it was then-Congressman Jay  Inslee, and Congressman Inslee then lost his election.

Mr. Speaker, when I was gifted ``The Chick,'' I decided to give it a  proper name: ``Baby Jay.'' As I prepare to part ways with ``Baby Jay''  to my Washington State colleague Emily Randall, I share this  lighthearted piece of Washington delegation history and the spirit of  continuity and camaraderie that it represents with the House today.                           Recognizing Kirby Moore

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the new  football coach of Washington State University, Coach Kirby Moore.

Just before the holidays, WSU hired Kirby Moore, a Washington native,  as our new head coach. Kirby Moore is young, hungry, and armed with an  impressive coaching resume. Coach Moore is ready to lead the Cougs to  new heights in his first head coaching role.

Kirby grew up going to Cougar football games. Kirby said: ``For me,  this is home. We've got grandparents in Palouse. We've got aunts in  Pullman, aunts in Spokane. My parents just built a house in the Tri- Cities, so there's some incredible memories for my kids.'' They are the  same memories that he grew up with.

Mr. Speaker, as such, I welcome Coach Kirby Moore back to the  Palouse, back home, and I look forward to his leadership of our crimson  and gray. Go Cougs.