Tipped Employee Protection Act


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, my voters and my constituents sent me  here to help solve problems, to help small business, to help employees,  and to help grow the economy. As such, I am proud to support the Tipped  Employee Protection Act. This important bill will help codify changes  we are making in Congress to help tip the scales in favor of our  service workers and waitresses.

Current Fair Labor Standards Act rules define tipped work as someone  who customarily and regularly receives more than $30 a month in tips.  It also considers a standard known as the 80/20 rule, which stipulates  that tipped workers can spend no more than 20 percent of their time, or  30 minutes at a stretch, doing tasks that don't directly earn tips. If  that sounds arbitrary, that is because it is.

Restaurants and similar businesses already run on thin margins.  Keeping track of that kind of detail adds unnecessary red tape and  stress. We all know how tough it is out there right now for small  businesses.

That is why Representative   Steve Womack and I introduced the Tipped  Employee Protection Act. This bill replaces the outdated definition of  tipped employees with a simpler and more realistic definition. The bill  defines a tipped worker as anyone who receives tips and other cash  wages that together add up to the Federal minimum wage, without  worrying about how much time they spend on this or that.

This change gives businesses more flexibility and protects them from  unfair and crippling penalties for small recordkeeping mistakes they  might make.

This bill resolves a longstanding issue that has been the subject of  expensive litigation and ensures that the Federal Government does not  set a standard that it cannot reasonably expect to enforce. It also  helps the Department of Labor focus on real wage violations instead of  technical paperwork issues.

Let's help small business. Let's help employers. Let's do the right  thing. Let's not work for the people that just want to have endless  lawsuits, endless litigation, and red tape.

Mr. Speaker, I urge everyone to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 2312 because  businesses don't need Federal bureaucrats micromanaging their  timekeeping.