Economic Populism


Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for leading this  conversation about how we can stand up  for our people and unrig the economy. That is economic patriotism.

I want to be very clear. Our economy has been rigged by giant  corporations and the wealthiest for way too long, and as these  corporations consolidate more power, the rich get richer, and everyone  else is just struggling to get by just on the basics. They need  groceries, housing, healthcare, basic medications.

Private insurance companies are now buying up your local healthcare  clinics and doctors' offices. In my home State of Washington, a handful  of healthcare systems control 90 percent of hospital beds. What does  that mean? It means that people are seeing their costs triple while the  quality of care goes down all so that Big Pharma and corporate CEOs can  pad their already overflowing pockets.

Mergers are pushing independent grocery stores out of business.  Today, just a few supermarket chains control all of the grocery stores  in the country. Albertsons and Kroger, two of the big grocery chains,  actually tried to merge, and I was so proud to lead the amicus brief  with other Members of Congress to actually oppose that merger. Thanks  to Democrats and the FTC under Lina Khan, we were able to stop that  merger because we know and we have seen that when these mergers happen,  corporations shut down stores, they fire workers, and they raise  prices.

Look at the housing market. When rents are sky high and there  literally is not a single place in the country where someone can afford  rent on minimum wage, private equity is coming in to buy up the  apartments and colluding to drive up the rents so it is even more  unaffordable to keep a roof over your head.

It wasn't always this way.

From World War II to the late 1970s, we actually rigorously enforced  our antitrust laws to ensure that mom-and-pop businesses had a chance  to compete against these megacompanies. Consumers had choices, and  workers had good jobs. You know what? Our economy actually grew.

Starting with Republican President Ronald Reagan, that antitrust  enforcement dwindled down, and large corporations took over. Today,  income and wealth inequality are higher than they have been in a  century.

Mr. Speaker, 2 months into the Trump administration, wages are still  low, and prices are still high. It does not need to be this way. In the  richest country in the world we do not suffer from scarcity, we suffer  from greed, and we have to be willing to take that on. We must take on  corporate power and corruption and make a meaningful difference in the  everyday lives of working people.

We have to lower prices so that everyone can have a roof over their  heads, put food on their table, send their kids for an education, and  retire with dignity. We have to have living wages for every worker, and  we have to tax the billionaires so that they just pay a little bit more  of their fair share like everyone else is doing.

We can and have to break up the largest corporations so they can't  keep screwing regular people. We have got to stand up and fight back  against corruption, against greed, against consolidation, and for the  American people to have that American Dream.

That is economic patriotism. That is what we are going to fight for,  and I am so grateful to my colleague from Pennsylvania for making sure  we put that out there.