Recognizing the Contributions of Mary Yu


Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor Justice  Mary Yu. Justice Yu will retire at the end of this year after over 25  years of distinguished service on the bench, including more than a  decade on the Washington State Supreme Court. Her tenure is marked by  an unwavering commitment to fairness, dignity, and equity for all. She  is a trailblazer, a champion for justice and a visionary leader in  Washington's legal community.

As the first Asian American, the first Latina, and the first LGBTQ+  justice to serve on our state's highest court, she has brought an  unparalleled depth of experience and perspective to the judiciary. She  co-chaired the Minority and Justice Commission and chaired the Board  for Judicial Administration's Public Trust and Confidence Committee. In  these capacities, she worked to eliminate bias in all areas, including  in jury pools, and build public trust and ensure fairness in state  courts. She has been a champion for ensuring workers' rights and  housing rights. Among many important rulings, she authored a unanimous  ruling on a voting rights case that protected against discrimination  based on race, color, and language. In 2012, she presided over the  first same-sex marriages in Washington State, standing at the forefront  of a historic civil rights milestone. Her compassion, warmth and belief  in human dignity are evident in the many cases she has handled.

Off the bench, she has mentored countless law students, new attorneys  and law clerks, taught as Jurist in Residence at Seattle University  School of Law, volunteered for the Seattle Girls' School Mock Trials  for nearly two decades, and co-chaired the Washington State Bar  Association/University of Washington Law School Leadership Institute.  Her commitment to fairness, diverse perspectives, and mentorship has  made her not only a respected jurist, but a beloved role model in the  legal community.

On behalf of Washington's 7th Congressional District and the  countless lives she has touched, I extend my heartfelt thanks to  Justice Mary Yu. Her service has bent the arc of justice further in our  state, and her legacy will continue to guide and inspire generations to  come, I urge my colleagues to join me in celebrating her extraordinary  contributions to Washington State and to our country.