$5.5 million in coronavirus relief headed to Montana to support seniors, Tester announces


U.S. Senator Jon Tester today announced that Montana will receive more than $5.5 million in coronavirus relief to support senior citizens and folks with disabilities across the state.

The $5,524,714 in Coronavirus Aid, Recovery, and Economic Security (CARES) Act funds will provide grants for home-delivered meals, caregiver support, Centers for Independent Living, and other supportive services for seniors and Montanans with disabilities via the Older Americans Act (OAA). This funding is part of the overall $1 billion Tester helped secure for seniors across the country in the CARES Act, which was not included in Senator Mitch McConnell's original legislation.

"This outbreak has hit Montana's seniors particularly hard, and we need to do everything we can to help them weather this storm," Tester said. "These critical funds will help older Montanans stay healthy and safe during this crisis, and I'll keep fighting to make sure all Montanans have access to the health resources and support they need as we get through this unprecedented time together."

The funds will be administered by the Administration for Community Living, and also include $583,420 for Montana's Tribes.

Montana programs receiving funding include:

-$1 million for OAA supportive services-$2.4 million for OAA home-delivered meals-$500,000 for OAA caregiver support-$100,000 for OAA ombudsman-$583,420 for OAA Title VI Tribes-$941,295 Centers for Independent Living

Tester has been working tirelessly to ensure that Montana is prepared to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. After 72 hours negotiating substantial, bipartisan improvements to COVID-19 stimulus legislation that had previously fallen far short, Tester voted to deliver critical, urgent relief to Montana workers, families, small businesses, hospitals and others hardest hit by the outbreak. This funding includes $1.25 billion for the state of Montana.

Visit tester.senate.gov/coronavirusresources for a list of resources for Montanans during the COVID-19 outbreak