After Pressure From Tester, Trump Administration Approves Montana's Major Disaster Declaration Request


t the urging of U.S. Senator Jon Tester, the Trump Administration tonight approved Montana's major disaster declaration request submitted by Governor Steve Bullock late last week.

"The Trump Administration did the right thing for Montana today-this declaration will open up immediate federal assistance that'll help us better slow the spread of this virus and deliver desperately needed supplies to the folks on the front lines," Tester said.

The approval will help the state slow and mitigate the effects of the virus by opening up access to new resources including requested medical supplies, personal protective equipment, treatment facilities, and care for individuals including medical expenses, unemployment assistance, and counseling.

"I write to urge you to expeditiously approve the State of Montana's major disaster declaration request to assist the state with its response to the COVID-19 crisis," Tester wrote to President Trump. "The number of confirmed cases is rising rapidly in Montana, which is putting a tremendous strain on our public health resources and communities. Immediate federal assistance in Montana is vital to help the state slow the spread of the virus and mitigate the effects of this major disaster... As you have stated, the response to COVID-19 is predominantly a national responsibly. That is why I also urge you to grant Governor Bullock's request for 100 percent federal assistance without matching requirements."

Tester has been working tirelessly to ensure that Montana is prepared to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. In the Senate last week, after 72 hours negotiating substantial, bipartisan improvements to COVID-19 stimulus legislation that had previously fallen far short, Tester voted to deliver critical, urgent relief to Montana workers, families, small businesses, hospitals and others hardest hit by the outbreak. This funding includes $1.25 billion for the state of Montana.

Visit tester.senate.gov/coronavirusresources for a list of resources for Montanans during the COVID-19 outbreak