CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Sen. Jon Tester (D-MT) is Interviewed about Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

SCIUTTO: Joining us now to discuss, Democratic Senator Jon Tester of Montana.

Senator, thanks so much for taking the time this morning. JON TESTER (D-MT): It is great to be with you. Thanks for having me.

SCIUTTO: So on Sunday it seemed like the question of witnesses was a dying question. Then, of course, the Bolton revelations come out. Pendulum swings the other way. And now it appears to have swung back in the opposite direction against witnesses.

Tell us where it stands today. I mean are -- do you believe, from speaking to your Republican colleagues, there are the votes here for this?

TESTER: I don't know. That's a really good question and I think that's what we're going to find out in a day or two.

[09:45:03]

But, ultimately, from the beginning, I thought we'd need to have more witnesses, more documentation. We need to hear from folks that have firsthand information on what's transpired with the president and the aid to Ukraine and the White House, Oval Office visit and all of that.

Unfortunately, or fortunately, however you want to look at it, over the last ten days or so, there's been more and more information coming out, including Bolton's information yesterday that only tells me, and hopefully it tells the other senators on both sides of the aisle, that we need people with firsthand information and more documentation to come forth if we're going to have a fair trial based on the facts.

SCIUTTO: You could say to confirm or deny, I suppose.

Would you, under any circumstances, support an agreement such as the one raised by Republican Senator Pat Toomey yesterday, that is a one for one witnesses deal. In other words, OK, let's say we -- we vote to subpoena John Bolton. The Republicans could then get a witness they would like. Would you, under any circumstances, vote to do that?

TESTER: I think if that witness has firsthand information, bring them in. Firsthand information as to what the president did, as Bolton does, as Mick Mulvaney does, as Pompeo does, then bring that person in and we can cross-examine him -- have cross-examination of them, which, by the way, as has been pointed out by the defense, will bring forth more facts.

So, yes. But firsthand information, people who were in the room, so to speak, is going to be critically important if we're going to be able to cross-examine those folks.

SCIUTTO: So I assume you're saying that someone like Hunter Biden would not be -- you would not be open to demanding his testimony?

TESTER: That is correct because he doesn't have firsthand information on what the president was saying and thinking in regards to the aid to Ukraine.

SCIUTTO: OK.

TESTER: An ally that was in a conflict with one of our adversaries.

SCIUTTO: Your Republican colleague, Joni Ernst, made a revealing comment yesterday about Republican -- possible Republican intentions here. Have a listen. I want to get your reaction.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. JONI ERNST (R-IA): Iowa caucuses are this next Monday evening. And I'm really interested to see how this discussion today informs and influences the Iowa caucus voters, those Democratic caucus goers. Will they be supporting Vice President Biden at this point? (INAUDIBLE) about that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCIUTTO: Was she revealing there, in your view, that part of the intention of the president's defense is, frankly, to damage Joe Biden?

TESTER: I don't know. I've got to tell you, I'm very disappointed in that. I had not heard that statement before.

When the defense was delivering the arguments yesterday, I did look at the clock. It was in the 5:00 hour that all that stuff was brought out. I thought, wow, that's interesting.

But I've got to tell you what, this is an impeachment, a very solemn occasion that we need to be very serious about. And if people are using this for political purposes to try to rail against their opponents, if they were, shame on them. This is about holding the president accountable. This is about making sure that the systems of checks and balances in this country work. This is about showing the American people that this government works and works for them.

If that's the case, I just got to tell you, I -- I'm very disappointed. I'm very disappointed if that -- if that's -- if that's the agenda behind all of this.

SCIUTTO: There is a conventional wisdom, and some of this is backed by polling, but I wonder, you're a sitting senator from a red state, Montana. The conventional wisdom is that red state voters don't care about this impeachment investigation, see it as politically motivated from the Democratic side. Is that accurate?

TESTER: No. I think -- I think what they want is -- we have a system of checks and balances that our forefathers put into place. I think Montanans know about that. I think folks from every state know about this. They want people held accountable if they've done something wrong. And that's what this impeachment's about. It's about, if the president has done something wrong, making sure that the Congress holds him accountable. In this case, through the impeachment clauses of the Constitution.

And I think that's what Montanans want, whether they're Democrats, Republicans, and they're all libertarians, they want to make sure that folks are held accountable if they have committed a wrongdoing. SCIUTTO: Final question if I can. The other revelation from John

Bolton's manuscript of his book is him expressing concerns, including to the attorney general, that the president was doing favors for the Turkish president, for the Chinese president, to serve his own interest. I wonder what Democrats do with that information because that speaks, does it not, to at least potential abuse of power.

TESTER: Look, I think there's a lot of things out there that are being done that raises eyebrows. I think we need to focus on the articles of impeachment and the information around those articles of impeachment. To get sidetracked on, you know, whether the president is right pulling troops out of Syria and supporting an ally, the Kurds there, I think is a misdirection.

[09:50:00]

I think focus on the impeachment charges. Make sure that what's going on as far as the proof of evidence is real. And that's why I want more people with firsthand information to come testify because I think if there's more information to be had, we need to get it. And it's incumbent upon the Senate to get that information.

SCIUTTO: Yes.

TESTER: Part of our job.

SCIUTTO: Senator Jon Tester, thanks so much for taking the time.

TESTER: A pleasure, Jim, thank you.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT