CNN "The Situation Room" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Jon Tester


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Joining me now, Democratic Senator Jon Tester of Montana.

Senator, thanks so much for joining us.

SEN. JON TESTER (D-MT): It is great to be here.

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: All right, so you heard the president say today in his news conference in India he doesn't want help from any foreign country in the upcoming election.

Is that strong enough, do you believe, to stop Russia from interfering?

TESTER: No. No.

I think you -- look, he's been all over the board on this. He's asked countries to help him. The whole impeachment trial was over this.

The bottom line is, is that we need to have policies in place that make sure that our elections are fair and make sure that Russia cannot -- cannot come in and disrupt them.

There are probably 15, 20 bills sitting in the Senate, bipartisan bills, that Mitch McConnell could bring to the Senate tomorrow.

BLITZER: Why doesn't he? TESTER: I have no idea. I have no idea. It makes no sense to me whatsoever.

BLITZER: Just allow a debate and a vote.

TESTER: Exactly right.

And if we got to be on a Saturday or a Sunday or a Friday, I'm OK with that. Elections are foundational to this democracy. And Russia's got to be dancing in the streets, because there's so many different messages are sent out.

The president a few months ago said he didn't trust our intelligence, but trusted Putin. And that's just not acceptable.

[18:10:01]

Now we have got somebody who briefs the senators on what's going on in the intel community as far as election security, and the president cans him, cans Maguire, and then replaced with somebody who has no experience at all in the intel community.

This is serious business, Wolf.

BLITZER: Yes, this is --

TESTER: And the country's on the line here.

BLITZER: This is national security, and the nature of, the integrity of the upcoming election is on the line.

So do you have confidence that, based on what you're hearing now from the president, based on what you heard the other day from his national security adviser, Robert O'Brien, do you have confidence that they will take the steps to make sure the Russians don't interfere?

TESTER: I -- they need to take some -- they need to some serious, positive steps to move forward.

When we put sanctions on -- when Congress has put sanctions on Russia before, they haven't fully implemented them. I think that's another sign.

So, no, to your point, no, I don't have confidence. The administration needs to step up.

BLITZER: Because what we heard from the secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, was much more forceful on this.

TESTER: Yes.

Look, you can't say, we want Russia to stay out of this. You got to make sure Russia stays out of it. And that's the bottom line.

BLITZER: Because some of your colleagues one sanctions, not only on Russian entities, but maybe on Putin himself. You saw that letter that went out yesterday.

TESTER: Yes.

I mean, look, I mean, let's give us some options to put the screws to Russia for influence in our elections. And I don't really care who it's for. The bottom line is, if we have got a foreign country that's messing around in our election system, that is not acceptable.

And we should be working, everybody should be working in a bipartisan way to stop this. This isn't about Democrats or Republicans. This is about this country.

BLITZER: Do you agree with Senator Lindsey Graham that maybe the whole job, DNI, director of national intelligence, is redundant, overseeing all 17 U.S. intelligence agencies?

TESTER: I don't. I think it's a very, very important position, and we ought to have somebody in it that is very capable and understands...

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: Well, do you think Congressman John Ratcliffe of Texas -- he's apparently on the president's short list.

TESTER: He wouldn't be my choice?

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: What about Pete Hoekstra, a former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee?

TESTER: I don't know him at all.

But let me say this. Bring him in front of the committee. Let the committee question him. And then let's vote whether to confirm him or not. Let's not have all these acting folks, because up and down Homeland Security, they're all acting.

Let's have the votes. Let's confirm the people. Let's use the checks and balances that are in place.

BLITZER: An important point, indeed.

Senator, thanks so much for coming in.

TESTER: A pleasure. Thank you.

BLITZER: Appreciate it very much.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT