CNN "Erin Burnett Outfront" - Transcript: Sen. Jon Tester (D-MT) Discusses About The New Evidence That Came From Lev Parnas


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

OUTFRONT now, Democratic Senator Jon Tester of Montana. Obviously, hours away from your chamber taking this and you being sworn in as a juror, Senator, how significant is this new evidence which we understand just came from the criminally indicted, Lev Parnas, and a former associate of the President's Personal attorney Rudy Giuliani?

SEN. JON TESTER (D-MT): Well, I think it just further proves the fact that we need folks that have firsthand knowledge testifying in front of the Senate if we're going to make a decision based on the facts. The impeachment, the jury trial that's about to happen, most jury trials I know of they get as much evidence as possible, don't try to restrict the evidence, get the evidence and have a fair trial and move forward.

So I think it just further adds to the fact that we need the folks, whether it's Bolton, whether it's Giuliani, whoever it might be, in front of us during this trial.

BURNETT: I mean, it's pretty incredible. In this letter, Giuliani is saying I have a great fondness for your country, congratulations on your victory. I want to help you succeed. And then the paragraph, the next paragraph begins, "However, I have a more specific request." And he says with his knowledge and consent, the President of the United States, I request this meeting and I only need 30 minutes of your time for this specific request.

This was on May 10th. The interview clip, I don't know if you just heard it, Senator, but I just played with the President and Bill O'Reilly. Bill O'Reilly directly says, you didn't direct him to go there on your behalf. Trump says, "No." O'Reilly asked again, "So Rudy Giuliani is your personal lawyer. You didn't direct him to go to Ukraine to do anything or put any heat on anyone." Trump replies, "No, I didn't direct him." Do you think he's lying?

TESTER: Well, the President has had a tortured relationship with the truth from the very, very beginning. And we've known about backchannel diplomacy that's being done by people who are not confirmed by the United States Senate.

As far as the impeachment goes, though, I think this just further amplifies the fact that we need folks to testify. We need folks with firsthand knowledge. We need any documents that might apply to this. Because the truth is and I don't need to give you a lesson in constitutional law, at least not from a farmer.

But the fact is, is that co equal branches of government are set up to hold one another accountable. And that's exactly what this impeachment is about. It's about the American public and it's about holding the executive accountable to the American people.

BURNETT: So Senator McConnell says the trial is likely going to begin on Tuesday, next Tuesday, so that you get the articles tomorrow, you'll be formally sworn in by the Chief Justice and then you would actually start next Tuesday. Roy Blunt has indicated each side may have four days each to present, then you have discussions, you all present questions.

I mean, how long do you expect, Senator, that this will take at this time?

TESTER: I think as long as it takes to get to the truth and I mean that. If it takes 10 days, two weeks to get to the truth, so be it. If it takes six weeks or two months to get the truth, so be it. Look, we can do other business while this impeachment trial is going on and I hope we do.

But the bottom line is these charges are important enough and they're severe enough that we need to get to the truth. The President has always said he wants to have a fair trial. I think every senator wants to make sure it's a fair trial, that we need to have adequate evidence from folks who have firsthand knowledge to be able to move the ball forward and make a decision whether to acquit or convict.

And so however long the trial takes, I think the bottom line is what we need to focus on is getting to the truth.

BURNETT: So when it comes to this issue of witnesses, obviously, you want people with firsthand knowledge. We don't have that right now. That's not what's there. I mean, you're getting every single piece of information thus far has said the same thing. It's been incredibly consistent, which is that the President directed people on his behalf to pressure the President of Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden, and there isn't a single thing that contradicts that.

However, you want witnesses. You want people who directly spoke to President Trump about it. You need four Republicans to vote with you to have those witnesses. Senator Collins seems open to it. Mitt Romney seems open to it. Lamar Alexander seems possibly open to it. Are there any other Republicans that are all out there talking about that are telling you they would vote for witnesses at this point?

TESTER: Look, I think everybody is keeping their powder dry, but I am optimistic that we can get a number of senators from the other side of the aisle to step forward and ask for witnesses. I think this is too big of an issue for the future of this country and for future actions of presidents regardless of the party to turn your back on it and make this into a sham trial.

[19:10:03]

And I think the folks that I served with on the other side of the aisle, the Republicans, they don't want this to be a sham trial. So the fact is that they don't want to cross President Trump. But the fact is, this isn't crossing President Trump. This is finding out what the facts are, letting the American people know what the facts are, and then the Senate as a jury making the decision.

So look, I think that there's a possibility that there could be a number of Republicans, much bigger than the list that you mentioned that would be willing to cross over and say, hey, we need more information. We need witnesses to testify and I in fact hope that happens.

They're good people. They mean well. We just need to make sure that the system works this democracy that we live in.

BURNETT: All right. Thank you very much, Senator Tester. Good to have you back, sir.

TESTER: Thank you, Erin.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT