CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Sen. Jon Tester (D- MT) is Interviewed about the Impeachment Vote


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

HARLOW: As 2020 Democrats battle is out in New Hampshire now, the president is declaring victory over his acquittal in the impeachment trial in the Senate. He's attacking Democrats and Republican Senator Mitt Romney in the process. This comes after bipartisan support to remove him from office with that vote from Senator Romney. Of course he was acquitted, though.

I'm joined now by Democratic Senator Jon Tester of Montana.

Senator, thank you for being here.

JON TESTER (D-MT): It's great to be with you. Thank you.

HARLOW: Can I just get your react to Senator Mitt Romney with that vote to convict the president, but also making history as the first sitting senator to vote to remove a president of their own party from office. What's your message to him this morning?

TESTER: Well, Mitt Romney is a deeply religious man. And I listened to his speech on the floor yesterday. And he literally, literally, I think, was guided by God. And he made a decision based on the facts and based on the gravity of the situation which was a very solemn and very important decision.

I think that he's probably catching a lot of heat for making the decision, but that's part of what leadership's about. You listen to the information and you make the best decision you can. And I think it's ironic that the president goes after him, a man who had an affair with a porn star while his wife was pregnant. That's the ultimate of ironies.

HARLOW: There's that.

Look, you have other Republican senators who called the president's actions inappropriate. They wouldn't have done it, like Susan Collins, Rob Portman, et cetera, who are now saying they think he learned a lesson, and also Majority Whip John Thune. They think the president learned and he won't do this again. He won't do something like he did on the call with the president of Ukraine.

But just this week, the president himself said to reporters in this off-the-record lunch that it was a perfect call. Are they right that the president has learned a lesson?

TESTER: Well, look, it will surprise me if he has. I mean I think you can look at his remarks this morning. There's not a lot of -- there's not a lot of asking for forgiveness for wrongdoing.

I think the president is the president. You take a look at what he's done in the past and it will teach you what he's going to do into the future. And, quite frankly, I don't think -- I do not believe that his activities will change one iota after getting acquitted.

HARLOW: Why do you think that the president is enjoying his highest approval rating of his presidency right now, that 49 percent of Americans in this new Gallup poll approve of the job he's doing, after all of this?

TESTER: Well, I mean, you know, I mean it -- polls ebb and flow and so I can't tell you why it would be high right now other than there were folks that tried to make this a very, very partisan impeachment over the last two or three weeks. And that may be the reason why.

I think what's important is to look at the actions and look at what's been done. Not only during the impeachment, but before the impeachment with our traditional allies and embracing dictators around the world.

Look, I think the country is in a difficult position right now. I think that the precedent, that this impeachment set is going to -- we're going to be living with this for years and years. And why his numbers are high, I don't know.

HARLOW: We're going to be living with what for years and years?

TESTER: The fact that there was no information, no witnesses put forth in this trial, that he was able to stonewall the entire trial and the fact that he was not held accountable.

HARLOW: Well, given that, House Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler, a Democrat, said yesterday, the Democrats will likely subpoena John Bolton and that they're going to continue with all of these investigations into the president.

[09:45:08]

And he said we're talking about everything, quote. Do you think that that's the best use of Congress' time right now?

TESTER: Look, that's -- that's what Jerry's going to do and Congressman Nadler can do whatever he thinks the right thing to do is.

I'm really going to be focusing on policy to help move things forward in the Senate. And I hope we can get some policy measures on the floor rather than just doing judges day in and day out because I think there's a lot of needs out there, whether it's in infrastructure or for veterans or education, health, whatever it might be.

HARLOW: Yes.

TESTER: There's a lot of work to be done.

HARLOW: All right, well, it sounds like you don't agree with Jerry Nadler that if you had your druthers, that isn't where you'd spend the majority of your time.

TESTER: Well, I'm not the chair of the Judiciary Committee or the Intel Committee.

HARLOW: Yes.

TESTER: But I am ranking member on veterans. And I know the needs that are out there for our veterans.

HARLOW: Yes. Fair enough.

All right, let's end on 2020. See if we can make a little news with you this morning, sir.

Early on in this race you endorsed, of course, from Montana as well, Governor Steve Bullock for president.

TESTER: Yes.

HARLOW: He's no longer running.

TESTER: Yes.

HARLOW: Give us a sense of where your head it now. Who do you like for president now?

TESTER: Well, look, it's early on in this process. And there's going to be a lot of --

HARLOW: Oh, come on, we're in the middle of Iowa and New Hampshire. You've got to have some opinion.

TESTER: Well, that's -- it is absolutely early on in this process. And I've got more folks that I like running than I have fingers on my left hand, how's that?

HARLOW: OK, come back when you're ready to make the news.

Senator Jon Tester, thank you.

TESTER: Would be more than happy to. Thank you very much.

HARLOW: All right. Thank you.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT