Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. TESTER. Madam President, I rise today at a pivotal time for our  Nation. It is quiet today in Big Sky Country. Over the last 36 hours,  we have seen schools, restaurants, bars, gyms, ski resorts, and  churches close. Thousands of children are home from school, many unsure  where their next meal will come from, and parents are without  childcare. 

  There are no test kits to test for coronavirus to speak of--a few,  but not nearly enough, and inadequate medical supplies in Indian  Country. 

  Thousands are concerned about what it means for their paychecks.  Seniors are worried about their health. Businesses are forced to make  very, very tough choices. 

  Millions of Americans are depending on us here in Washington, DC, to  act and to act quickly. The House jumped into action and began  negotiating with the administration on a bill to address some of the  most pressing and immediate concerns of the coronavirus. A deal was  struck, and the House passed the bill with an overwhelming bipartisan  majority. 

  And what happened in the Senate? Well, last Thursday, the majority  leader sent us home. Business as usual. 

  What we should have done--we should have stuck around and done the  people's work. But, instead, my friends in the majority decided we  should operate as business as usual and take off Friday, take off the  weekend, and go home. 

  Well, this is not business as usual. If the majority leader would  have listened to the CDC, he would have heard that what he did last  Thursday was contrary to the recommendations they have made to avoid  groups, to avoid airports. We did just the opposite. 

  Millions of Americans are waiting for the Senate to act. What we are  here to consider today, which we should have considered last Saturday,  is an important start toward providing needed relief. It provides free  testing, sick leave, unemployment insurance for those losing their jobs  through no fault of their own. 

  We could have done this several days ago, but, instead, we continue  to wait. We continue to wait as we have watched athletics shut down-- the NCAA, baseball, hockey, basketball, NBA--restaurants, Broadway,  schools close. The list goes on and on, and we continue to languish  here in the U.S. Senate, supposedly the greatest deliberative body in  the world. We do this while 4 in 10 Americans struggle to cover an  unanticipated expense of $400. Let me say that again: 4 in 10 families  are $400 away from financial crisis.  

  This bill ensures that a hotel employee in Billings can stay home if  she is feeling ill without sacrificing that $400 for rent, groceries,  or childcare. 

  A quarter of a million Americans go without medical care for fear of  the cost. This bill ensures that no one is going without healthcare or  coronavirus tests for fear of the expense. More than that, the bill  would increase the amount of funding for Montana's Medicaid Program to  cover additional Medicaid expenses. 

  Many kids in Montana rely on lunch that they get at their schools as  the primary source of nutrition for the day. This bill will allow those  students to continue to get lunch even if the schools are closed. 

  Seniors who are homebound rely on meal delivery services such as  Meals on Wheels. Missoula Aging Services is already preparing to use  its allotment of millions of dollars in additional revenue for senior  nutrition, for providing more meals for seniors who are following  recommendations to stay home. 

  This pandemic is already causing significant impacts to our economy.  We know that all too well. This is why this bill addresses unexpected  unemployment and helps small businesses cover paid sick leave for those  who need it. 

  Under this bill, low-income pregnant women and mothers with young  children who lose their jobs due to COVID-19 will be able to access  food assistance. All of these are commonsense, bipartisan solutions  that the Senate has delayed for no good reason. 

  On the farm, when there is work to be done, especially when it is  time-sensitive work, you don't take a break. You get the job done. I  call on my colleagues not to waste another moment--to hold a vote and  get the job done. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT