In another Facebook live Q&A, Tester answers questions from Montanans on COVID-19 crisis


U.S. Senator Jon Tester today hosted another Facebook Live Q&A to respond to Montanans' questions and provide updates on his efforts to combat the COVID-19 crisis.

Tester thanked the men and women working on the front lines to keep Montanans healthy, and responded to questions about efforts to secure medical supplies for health care workers and first responders, support for farmers and ranchers, and the need to expand access to broadband, among other topics submitted by constituents.

"Thank you to all of you, whether you are home caring for family, or supporting your community while working at a grocery store, delivering mail, or on the front lines at one of our hospitals and clinics, fighting to keep Montanans safe and healthy," Tester said. "We all owe you a debt of gratitude as you step up when your neighbors need you."

Tester also called on the Administration to take full advantage of the Defense Production Act to get critically needed medical supplies to the health care workers and first responders on the frontlines of this crisis.

"It is absolutely critical that the Administration take full advantage of the Defense Production Act so that Montana communities have access to critical medical supplies, including testing, ventilators, masks, and other personal protective equipment," Tester said. "Montana can't wait any longer, and I'm beyond frustrated they continue to drag their feet."

Tester has been working tirelessly to ensure that Montana is prepared to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. After 72 hours negotiating substantial, bipartisan improvements to COVID-19 stimulus legislation that had previously fallen far short, Tester voted to deliver critical, urgent relief to Montana workers, families, small businesses, hospitals and others hardest hit by the outbreak. This funding includes $1.25 billion for the state of Montana.

Visit tester.senate.gov/coronavirusresouces for a list of resources for Montanans during the COVID-19 outbreak.