Tester announces nearly $800,000 in emergency food and shelter resources for vulnerable Montanans


U.S. Senator Jon Tester today announced $776,162 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funds through the Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) to provide critical resources to vulnerable Montanans, including those experiencing hunger and homelessness. The funding includes $311,115 allocated through the Program's Fiscal Year 2019 appropriation and $465,047 allocated through the Coronavirus Aid, Recovery, and Economic Security (CARES) Act to provide relief during the coronavirus pandemic.

"Especially during this public health crisis, it is absolutely critical we make sure that Montanans experiencing homelessness and hunger have a roof over their heads and food on the table," said Tester. "I am proud to have secured this funding to help make sure vulnerable Montanans have the resources they need to get through this difficult period."

ESFP funding goes to organizations dedicated to feeding, sheltering, and providing critical resources to people experiencing, or at-risk of experiencing, hunger and homelessness. In addition to the $120 million in FY 2019 annual funding appropriated by Congress, the CARES Act authorized an additional $200 million in supplemental funding, from which today's grants to Montana were allocated.

Tester has led the charge to ensure that Montana's vulnerable populations have the resources they need to stay healthy during the pandemic. Last week he successfully pressured CMS to update a rule that will level the playing field for seniors and other Montanans without reliable broadband who need access to health care. He recently announced $875,012 in housing pandemic relief funding as well as $5.5 million to provide grants for home-delivered meals, caregiver support, Centers for Independent Living, and other supportive services for seniors and Montanans with disabilities via the Older Americans Act (OAA). This funding is part of the overall $1 billion Tester helped secure for seniors across the country in the CARES Act, which was not included in Senator Mitch McConnell's original legislation.