Tester announces $875,012 in housing funds for at-risk Montanans during pandemic


U.S. Senator Jon Tester today announced $875,012 in housing pandemic relief funding through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. The money will be distributed to eight housing authorities across Montana for the Housing Choice Voucher program, and to the Montana Department of Commerce to cover administrative costs to the state.

"When being asked to shelter in place due to the pandemic, the last thing Montanans should be worried about is whether they have a safe, affordable place to call home," said Tester. "I'm proud to have secured these funds, which will help put a roof over the heads of low-income, elderly, and disabled Montanans, who are at particular risk from the coronavirus outbreak."

The housing choice voucher program is the Department of Housing and Urban Development's major program for assisting very low-income families, the elderly, and the disabled to afford safe housing in the private market. Since housing assistance is provided on behalf of the family or individual, participants are able to find their own housing, including single-family homes, townhouses and apartments.

In addition to $541,418 for the Montana Department of Commerce, the local housing authorities receiving this funding include:

-Housing Authority of Billings: $111,108-Great Falls Housing Authority: $29,604-Housing Authority of Butte: $11,394-Helena Housing Authority: $53,660-Richland County Housing Authority: $5,768-Whitefish Housing Authority: $2,108-Missoula Housing Authority: $115,472-City of Ronan Housing Authority: $4,480

Tester has been working tirelessly to ensure that Montana is prepared to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. After 72 hours negotiating substantial, bipartisan improvements to COVID-19 stimulus legislation, Tester voted to deliver critical, urgent relief to Montana workers, families, small businesses, hospitals and others hardest hit by the outbreak. This funding includes $1.25 billion for the state of Montana.

Visit tester.senate.gov/coronavirusresources for a list of resources for Montanans during the COVID-19 outbreak