Tester, Daines, Gianforte Congratulate Sheridan's Robinson Dale On Acceptance To Air Force Academy


U.S. Senators Jon Tester and Steve Daines, and Congressman Greg Gianforte congratulated Sheridan-area high school student Robinson Dale today on his appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy.

Robinson is Class President, National Honor Society member, High School Robotics Program member, and local 4-H Club President at Twin Bridges High School. He is also the team captain of his club soccer team and a member of the Rotary Youth Leadership Academy, Business Professionals of America, and Future Farmers of America.

"Robinson is an exceptional young Montanan, who has already proven himself to be a tremendous student and leader," said Tester. "I wish him all the best on his exciting new journey at the Air Force Academy where I have no doubt that he will serve our state and country proudly."

"Robinson has a proven himself to be an exceptional young leader with a very bright future ahead," Daines said. "Congratulations to Robinson for being accepted into the Air Force Academy. I have no doubt that he will serve Montana and our country proudly as an officer in the U.S. Air Force."

"Robinson is an outstanding student, leader, and athlete at Twin Bridges High School, and he'll bring those exceptional qualities with him to the Air Force Academy," Gianforte said. "I know he'll make Montana proud and serve with distinction. Congratulations, Robinson."

Tester, Daines, and Gianforte nominated Robinson in December based on his academic accomplishments, extracurricular activities, and commitment to serving and leading in the United States military. A nomination from a member of Congress is the first step in students' applications to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.

Montana residents interested in applying to a military academy can get more information by visiting Tester's website, Daines' website, or Gianforte's website.