Tester Secures $15.6 Million for 60 Montana Nursing Homes to Combat COVID-19


U.S. Senator Jon Tester today announced $15,615,000 in Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act funding for 60 Montana nursing facilities to help cover expenses and lost revenue during the coronavirus pandemic.

"Nursing homes play a critical role in providing quality health care to older Montanans, and that responsibility has only grown in the face of this pandemic," said Tester. "The funding I'm announcing today will help keep the doors to these facilities open as well as provide resources to protect the folks who live and work there. I'm going to keep pushing Washington to fulfill its obligations to Montana and help keep our vulnerable populations safe during this crisis."

This funding is a part of a total of $175 billion allocated to support health care providers Tester fought to secure in the CARES Act and the interim coronavirus relief package passed last month. Nursing home patients and employees have been disproportionately impacted by the pandemic since there is a significantly higher risk for older adults and those with existing medical conditions. This funding will help nursing homes scale up testing capacity, acquire personal protective equipment, and necessary staffing to care for this vulnerable population.

Senator Tester has been working tirelessly to ensure that Montana hospitals and health care facilities are prepared to combat the COVID-19 crisis. He recently announced nearly $50 million in Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act funding to help Montana expand testing capacity. He also secured $3 million for 14 Montana community health centers to expand COVID-19 testing, and he delivered nearly $200 million in relief funding for 121 rural Montana hospitals, health centers, and clinics. Additionally, he sent a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar urging him to guarantee that a portion of the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund will be set aside specifically for rural providers, health care expenses, or lost revenues attributable to the pandemic.