Trump signs second bipartisan Tester G.I. bill fix for student veterans into law


President Donald Trump signed a second bipartisan, legislative fix championed by Senate Veterans' Affairs Ranking Member Jon Tester to ensure veterans' education benefits are safeguarded as schools and programs across the country remain closed amid the COVID-19 pandemic.

"The President did the right thing by signing this bipartisan, commonsense solution into law, that'll ensure our student veterans don't fall behind during the national health emergency," said Ranking Member Tester. "For veterans relying on G.I. Bill benefits, and whose lives have been interrupted by the crisis, this solution will provide folks with the financial assistance they need to make ends meet. Now more than ever, we must recommit ourselves to supporting those who've served and make their well-being our top priority."

The Student Veteran Coronavirus Response Act of 2020 will make certain student veterans on the G.I. Bill can continue to receive housing and work payments as classes are disrupted. This legislation provides many benefits, including:

-Allows student veterans that are in work-study programs to continue to receive payments during this time even if they are unable to work due to COVID-19.-Makes certain veterans can receive additional housing allowance payments if their institution closes due to COVID-19.-Allows student veterans to have their education entitlements restored or extended if campuses are closed due to COVID-19.

This legislation was spearheaded by leaders from both the Senate and House Veterans' Affairs Committees. Tester worked with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to push the legislation over the finish line in the Senate last week.

Tester has been a staunch advocate for providing student veterans with the financial assistance they need during the COVID-19 pandemic. Last month, he teamed up with Chairman Moran to introduce a bipartisan, legislative fix to allow veterans on the G.I. Bill to continue receiving full benefits as universities moved to an online curriculum to prevent the spread of the virus. President Trump signed this bill into law on March 21, 2020.