Veterans of Foreign Wars Honors Tester with 2020 Congressional Award


Wrapping up a week of Veterans Service Organizations (VSO) hearings on Capitol Hill, the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) awarded U.S. Senator Jon Tester the 2020 Congressional Award for his leadership as Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee at their annual Legislative Congressional Reception yesterday evening.

Since 1964, the VFW Congressional Award has been presented annually to one sitting member of the House or Senate for their significant legislative contributions on behalf of those who have worn the uniform, and their families.

"The VFW is a critical supporter of veterans in Montana and in communities across the country," said Tester. "For many years, they have been a steadfast partner in helping Congress pass important legislation that addresses rural veterans' needs, including access to quality care and benefits. I'm humbled and honored to receive this award, and will continue to work with the VFW to make sure we live up to the promises we made to this country's fighting men and women."

As Ranking Member, Tester has been a relentless advocate for Montana veterans. Tester has authored critical pieces of bipartisan legislation including the Commander John Scott Hannon Veterans Health Care Improvement Act, the VA MISSION Act, the Deborah Sampson Act, and most recently, the Major Richard Star Act.

The VFW Congressional Award "recognizes that our military, our veterans, and our families of past and present, have a champion in their corner of Capitol Hill." Previous recipients include Senator Johnny Isakson and Representative Rodney P. Frelinghuysen.

Earlier this week, Tester joined members of the Senate and House Committees on Veterans' Affairs in a series of joint hearings with VSOs to discuss their legislative priorities. On Wednesday, the VFW presented their 2020 legislative priorities to Congress, where Tester highlighted a number of veteran issues including caregivers, toxic exposure, women's health care, mental health and suicide prevention.

Additionally, Tester held a hearing with the American Ex-Prisoners of War Organization (AXPOW), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), Student Veterans of America (SVA), Gold Star Wives of America (GSW), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Fleet Reserve Association (FRA) and Iraq & Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA).