DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695555/dc-criminal-reforms-to-immediately-make-everyone-safe-act


Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, as I sat and listened to the beginning of  this debate, my heart simply broke, and many people know me for being  able to do alliterations, and all I could think about was: Amnesia  allows adolescents accountability avoidance agility from across the  aisle.

Work with me for a second. Imagine being a young man born to Jamaican  and Panamanian parents who messed up not once but twice. Imagine  standing in front of a judge with your whole future hanging in the  balance. Instead of prison, you are given a promise of mercy. Your  record gets wiped clean, and you get a second chance at life.

Now imagine taking that promise and turning it into promotion. You go  to college. You get a job and even become a Member of Congress. That is  what redemption looks like. That is what America is supposed to be  about, and that is exactly the story of the next wannabe Governor from  Florida.

As a young man, he went through pretrial diversion for misdemeanor  marijuana possession. As an adult, yet younger than 24, he was charged  with and ultimately placed on probation for felony bribery charges,  which ultimately were, too, expunged.

He was given a third chance, and now he is the face of a bill that  would not afford young people in Washington, D.C., the same  opportunities afforded to him.

Let me be real. If he had grown up under Donald Trump's America or  under the very D.C. crime bill he is pushing today, he wouldn't be  standing here as a Member of Congress. He would still be living with  the weight of those charges.

Let's call this what it is: Opportunities for me, but not for thee.  He climbed the ladder of redemption, and now he is yanking it right up  from under D.C. youth. Most of us were taught to lift as you climb, but  clearly some have forgotten to lift as they climb. Now they are  committed to telling the next generations to pull themselves up by  their bootstraps.

I will not sit quiet while a man who was saved by grace turns around  and tries to snatch grace away from others.

Ms. CROCKETT. If we are going to be real about crime, about  communities, about second chances and even third chances, then it needs  to start with us looking in the mirror and remembering that even the  author of this bill has a story, too, before he tries to lecture D.C.  on safety.

It would be complete hypocrisy to have, hypothetically, someone  convicted of 34 felonies to lecture D.C. on what to do with youthful  offenders who have been scientifically shown not to have fully  developed brains under the age of 25, especially if said multi-count  convicted felon was in his seventies when he was convicted. What would  be his excuse since his brain would be fully developed?