Notice of Intention to Offer Resolution Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696889/notice-of-intention-to-offer-resolution-raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, this is a distraction to take away from  the fact that the guardians of pedophiles is literally trying to  protect pedophiles. The President is a convicted felon and an accused  sex offender.

Stacey Plaskett hasn't been accused of either.

What are we actually here talking about? Trump and Epstein were  besties. We have all seen the pictures of them. We saw the birthday  book. So why are y'all more interested in talking about Stacey Plaskett  than Trump's relationship with the man?

When did y'all become so moral? I can remember when y'all wouldn't  sign the discharge petition. All of a sudden, everybody wanted to vote  for this, but you wouldn't sign the discharge petition.

Until we decide that we are going to go after the actual rapists and  pedophiles, miss me with your moral high ground.

Folks who also took money from somebody named Jeffrey Epstein, as I  had my team dig in very quickly: Mitt Romney, the NRCC, Lee Zeldin,  George Bush, WinRed, McCain-Palin, Rick Lazio.

I just want to be clear: If this is the standard that we are going to  make, just know we are going to expose it all, and just know that the  FEC filings are available for everybody to review.

This is absolutely ridiculous. You decide that you want to punish a  sitting Member of Congress because you are concerned about her text  messages. Well, maybe you should be more concerned about those sex  tapes that we still haven't gotten access to. Maybe you should be more  concerned with the fact that the President's name is mentioned in the  files way more than Stacey Plaskett's name.

Listen, I am not saying that anything is right or wrong. But if you  are trying to figure out what is going on with somebody that is a  criminal, then maybe you need to talk to their associates. That is  exactly why maybe she was getting text messages. I am not saying she  was or wasn't, but considering the fact that they were talking to  another associate of the President's, and maybe she needed intel, you  would have to go talk to somebody who maybe knows what he is up to.