Recognizing the Physicians At Dallas Endoscopy Center


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695923/recognizing-the-physicians-at-dallas-endoscopy-center


Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions of the physicians at Dallas Endoscopy Center (DEC) to the  health and well-being of the residents of Texas' 30th Congressional  District. For almost two decades, these dedicated healthcare  professionals have profoundly impacted our community through their  commitment to providing exceptional, cost-effective outpatient surgical  services, including colonoscopies and endoscopies.

The founders' vision of delivering safe and effective surgical care  through innovation and technology culminated in the opening of this  critical facility in September 2005. Moreover, patients and employees  have remained at the forefront of DEC's mission. As Susan Cheek, DEC's  Administrator, put it: ``Our longevity is a testament to our commitment  to patients and employees. Multiple individuals, such as myself, have  spent the majority of their careers here, directly impacting the lives  of tens of thousands of patients. By prioritizing quality and  efficiency, we've cultivated a strong, dedicated team that has been  instrumental in our continued growth.''

Ambulatory surgery centers (ASCs), such as DEC, are critical in  delivering timely preventative care, including vital screenings like  colonoscopies and endoscopies. These facilities offer efficient and  accessible procedures, often with short wait times and low costs. By  providing quick access to these screenings, ASCs can help identify  potential health issues early, when treatment is most effective.

It is important to highlight the role of ASCs in serving underserved  populations. These centers can offer increased accessibility for  individuals facing barriers to care, such as lack of insurance or  transportation difficulties. By providing convenient and affordable  options, ASCs can help to reduce health disparities and improve overall  community health.

I want to acknowledge the following physicians for their exemplary  work specifically, Christopher J. Vesy, M.D. (Founder), W. Gregory  Hodges, M.D. (Founder), Rajeev Jain, M.D. (Founder), Michael J. Nunez,  M.D. (Founder), Kimberly M. Persley, M.D. (Founder), Esmail Elwazir,  M.D. (Founder), Bhavani Moparty, M.D., Abrar Ahmed, M.D., Ben Kahn,  M.D., Jason Martin, M.D., Jason Martin, M.D., William E. Stevens, M.D.  (Founder), Robert Jacobson, M.D. (Founder), Paitoon Tulanon, M.D.  (Founder), Peter Loeb, M.D. (Founder) in Gastroenterology as well as F.  Clark Odom, M.D. (Founder) and Roberto Rodriguez Ruesga, M.D. (Founder)  in Colorectal Surgery.

These physicians are invaluable assets to our community, and their  dedication to patient care is commendable. By providing accessible and  high-quality outpatient services, they have improved the lives of  countless individuals in our district. I, again, proudly recognize the  exceptional work of all the healthcare providers at Dallas Endoscopy  Center.