Recognizing Pastor Christopher ``chris'' K. Wesley on Six Years of Servant Leadership-


Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Pastor  Christopher ``Chris'' K. Wesley, my constituent and the Senior Pastor  of Antioch Fellowship Church of Dallas. This month marks six years of  dedicated leadership as pastor of this historic and impactful church--a  church I am proud to represent and one that is truly on the move. These  six years have been marked by servant leadership, the faithful teaching  of God's Word, and a steadfast commitment to being a beacon of hope-- not only for the Antioch congregation, but for communities throughout  Dallas and beyond.

Under Pastor Wesley's leadership, Antioch Fellowship Church has  experienced significant growth and expanded its reach in meaningful  ways. The church continues to engage new generations for Christ while  remaining rooted and grounded in the strong foundation and values upon  which Antioch was built.

Pastor Chris is not only a preacher, but also a gifted worship  leader, singer, and songwriter. He leads Chris Wesley and Undignified  Praise, a collective of young adults who have served as featured  artists at events nationwide. Their debut album, Redeemed, was released  in 2012, followed by Encounter in November 2019. The group has received  numerous nominations and honors, including KHVN's Home Grown Gospel  Honors and the Texas Gospel Music Excellence Awards as Group of the  Year. In 2022, they received Ensemble of the Year at the Avidity Awards  in Memphis, Tennessee. Their third project, 8:28: Live in Dallas, was  released in January 2023 and features the single ``'Til It's Good,''  written by Pastor Wesley. Their most recent live recording, 14:14,  inspired by Exodus 14:14, was released in 2025.

In addition to his leadership at Antioch and Undignified Praise,  Pastor Chris serves as Director of EMERGE, the Next Generation  Department of the National Baptist Convention of America, Incorporated,  under the leadership of Dr. Samuel C. Tolbert. He also serves in  various community leadership and service roles, including work with the  Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and other organizations committed to  faith, advocacy, and civic engagement.

At the age of 15, Pastor Chris accepted his call to the preaching  ministry and delivered his first sermon. Since that time, he has  ministered through preaching and song across the country. Known for his  passionate delivery and his ability to interpret Scripture in ways that  are both accessible and applicable, he has a deep love for teaching the  Word of God to people of all ages and backgrounds. Additionally, Pastor  Chris has committed his life not only to serving within the walls of  Antioch Fellowship Church, but also to standing up for those without a  voice and advocating for justice, faith, and community uplift.

Again, I extend my sincere congratulations to Pastor Christopher K.  Wesley on six years of faithful leadership. I thank him for continued  service to our community and his unwavering commitment to teaching  God's Word. I know  that the best is yet to come, and I look forward to witnessing his  continued impact and leadership.