Recognizing Mr. Randall Bryant's Selection As Chairman of the Dart Board of Directors


Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr. Randall  Bryant, my constituent and the incoming Chairman for the Dallas Area  Rapid Transit (DART) Board of Directors. His selection as Chairman is  not only a testament to the agency's forward momentum, but it also  marks a milestone: Mr. Bryant is now the twenty-second board chair in  DART's forty-two-year history, and he becomes the youngest individual  ever to lead the Board.

Mr. Bryant joined the DART Board following his appointment by the  Dallas City Council in 2024 to fill a vacancy, and he was reappointed  to a full two-year term in May 2025. Over the past fifteen years, he  has served our city through multiple appointments to boards,  commissions, and committees, including his prior role as Immediate Past  Chair of the Dallas Black Chamber of Commerce, and his membership on  the Dallas Citizens Council and North Texas Commission.

Since joining DART, Mr. Bryant has been elected to serve on the Board  of Directors of the American Public Transportation Association (APTA),  and he will now represent DART on the Regional Transportation Council.  His broad experience in civic, business, and community affairs  positions him well to lead at this pivotal moment for transit in our  region.

Under his upcoming chairmanship, DART is poised to advance its role  as the mobility backbone of North Texas. Established in 1983, DART now  serves a 700-square-mile service area across thirteen member cities,  including Addison, Carrollton, Cockrell Hill, Dallas, Farmers Branch,  Garland, Glenn Heights, Highland Park, Irving, Richardson, Rowlett,  Plano, and University Park. Its network spans light rail lines, bus  routes, commuter-rail service (the Trinity Railway Express and as of  this weekend the new Silver Line), GoLink on-demand services, and  paratransit. Recently, DART has adopted an updated Strategic Plan  setting bold new vision and mission statements, guiding the agency into  the decade ahead as a ``first-in-mind mobility partner'' and a premier  regional economic and mobility asset. With Mr. Bryant's leadership as  chair, I am confident the Board will continue building on DART's legacy  of innovation--expanding service, improving accessibility, enhancing  sustainability, and ensuring that transit remains affordable and  reliable for all our neighbors.

Again, I extend my congratulations to Mr. Randall Bryant. I thank him  for his ongoing service throughout our community and for his commitment  to ensuring the presence of safe, accessible, and affordable  transportation for all our neighbors across the region. I look forward  to our continued partnership.