Recognizing the Work of the It's About the Kids Mentor Program


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692965/recognizing-the-work-of-the-its-about-the-kids-mentor-program


Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an outstanding  organization in Texas' 30th Congressional District, It's About the Kids  Mentor Program, a community organization committed to empowering  families and youth in Dallas, Texas. With a mission ``to focus on the  kids of today, which will strengthen our youth of tomorrow who will  become the adults of the future,'' It's About the Kids provides  impactful programs that center around youth mentorship, community  service, literacy advancement, professional development, and  contributing significantly to the well-being and growth of families in  our community. By focusing on these initiatives, participants can  develop the necessary skills needed to thrive today.

Founded in 2001 by Baldwin and Crystal Hamilton, It's About the Kids  Mentor Program began outreach in Marietta, Georgia, then following the  Hamiltons' move to Dallas in 2012, they expanded their reach to Dallas  and most recently have expanded to Shreveport in 2024. The Hamiltons  have intentionally poured  into the lives of young people by providing mentorship and developing  participants' literacy skills and interest in public service. Through  programs such as the Little Library Program, they have partnered with  educators and libraries to provide resources for over 500 children to  develop strong literacy skills, It's About the Kids continues to be an  excellent asset to the constituents of TX-30. For the past two years,  they have partnered with my office for our annual Fish `n' Kids and  Kids `n' Kites events, which give kids the opportunity to engage in  outdoor activities, build relationships with local law enforcement, and  interact with members of the community.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud of the work that Baldwin and Crystal Hamilton  and It's About the Kids Mentor Program have done in our district and  look forward to their continued impact on our community.