Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688063/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, I rise in full support of the House budget  resolution. I thank Mr. Arrington for the yeoman's work he has done. He  stood tall and he stood strong.

For those who are watching on TV and for those listening, we have  gotten a steady diet of the same old, worn-out tactics: rich, poor,  divinity politics, taking food from hungry children. They haven't used  granny is going over the cliff yet, but I assume that is coming.

My question to my good friends on the other side is: Where were they  the last 4 years? Where were they? We have got a steady diet of high  inflation. We have got a steady diet of 15 million illegals coming into  this country, using every public school, every hospital, not being a  citizen, draining the payroll, and draining the economy of America.

What about the empathy for the poor, unaccompanied children who came  over here and are in sex trades, if they are still living, many of  them, well over 400,000 children? What about the inflation at every  level? Where were you the last 4 years?

With house prices, where were you? Interest rates, you were nowhere  to be found. Where were your solutions? You didn't have any because we  have got two worldviews. You think taxes paid by Americans is your  money to spend like you want.

What Elon Musk and Donald Trump are doing is identifying the waste.  Let the American people judge. Seventy-seven million Americans judged  on who they thought could lead this country, and it wasn't an inept  President who couldn't give a press conference if he had to or read a  thank-you card. That is who you put up with for 4 years.

The past is the judge of the future. I would love to have $5 trillion  in cuts on this bill.

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, we have got more to go. This is the first  step. The journey starts with the first step. We are going to fight,  and we are going to stop the policies that have bankrupted this  country, that you have put up with for the past 4 years. Time is up. It  is time for a new day.