Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689410/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-defining-larger-participants-of-a-market-for-general-use-digital-consumer-payment-applications-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-no-rogue-rulings-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I rise in full support of this  rule. As I told my good friends in the Rules Committee today, you are  not going to lecture me on compassion. You are not going to lecture me  on being kind to the poor and the forgotten.

You are the party who let 15 million illegals in this country,  wantonly and deliberately. You are the party who defended a President  who wasn't mentally competent.

One of the ladies mentioned that Donald Trump voted from a golf  course. Donald Trump could read a thank-you note, unlike President  Biden.

Donald Trump had 77 million people who wanted to reverse the course  that this country was on for the last 4 years. To hear you all talk all  of a sudden about disenfranchisement for females, you are always  playing the victim card. Seventy-seven million people rejected that.

Now, on the proxy voting, every one of our friends in the back  listening had to show up here. Every one of them had to physically come  here. I am in the construction business. Do you think the electrician  could vote by proxy to get the house wired? Do you think the dentist  could vote by proxy to get the teeth fixed and fillings filled?

It is a joke. With all the problems this country has, here we are,  arguing over proxy voting.

You brought up the Speaker voting by proxy. I voted by proxy. Speaker  Pelosi put it in order a few times, and no one agrees with this.

The hardworking Americans go to work. When we sign up for this job,  as has been said, we agree to come to this Chamber, 435 of us.

Mr. NORMAN. If you want to get into Members of your own party who  voted coming off boats and just basically took a vacation, it ends  today.

That is why I fully support this.