Providing for Consideration of H.R. Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692389/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-rescissions-act-of-2025


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Foxx for yielding me  the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4, the  Rescissions Act of 2025, a bill that finally codifies the spending cuts  identified by the Department of Government Efficiency, otherwise known  as DOGE.

The American people are getting a front row seat to one party who is  perfectly content to bankrupt this country, one party. We will get no  votes on this rescission package, none from the Democratic Party.

They had their time. When their President, who was cognitively, let's  just say, deficient, where were the cuts? None. They didn't say  anything. They didn't stand up for the American people. They were  silent.

Where were our good friends with the 15 to 20 million illegals coming  into this country, with the drugs flowing in, with the children that  were trafficked? Where were they? They were quiet. They didn't say a  thing. Mr. Speaker, it is anti-American.

This package is not about tightening belts. It is about cutting loose  the dead weight.

As Congresswoman Foxx just mentioned a few things, let me mention a  few things that Democrats will spend Americans' money on:

$3 million for Iraqi Sesame Street; $6 million for NetZeroCities in  Mexico--NetZeroCities in Mexico, what is that? Mr. Speaker, Democrats  will spend $158 million for Lebanon peacekeeping operations which fail  to contain Hezbollah; $135 million for the World Health Organization  controlled by China. This is what Democrats are for. This is how they  are wanting to spend your money.

With $38 trillion in debt, they will keep on spending and spending on  their pet projects. President Trump is calling an end to it.

Mr. Speaker, of this, we are talking about $9.4 billion in  rescissions, funds that should never have been appropriated in the  first place. This includes $8.3 billion from foreign aid programs--some  which I just read--$1.1 billion from the Corporation of Public  Broadcasting. Taxpayers should not be forced to subsidize a leftwing  media operation like NPR and PBS. These cuts are more than symbolic.  Mr. Speaker, they are structural. They target woke U.N. handouts,  failing to keep the peacekeeping efforts, and Biden's DEI and climate  propaganda campaigns masquerading as humanitarian aid.

Let me be clear. This does not cut defense. This does not cut Social  Security. This does not cut Medicare. This is about rooting out waste,  fraud, and abuse and very firmly putting America first, which they are  not doing.

If we don't codify these cuts, they will be reversed quietly over  time with no vote from this Chamber.

This rescissions package is the lockbox. It makes the DOGE cuts  permanent. It ensures the victories that we don't want to get washed  away in the next budget cycle. This is our chance to turn--

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, this is about freedom. This is about  maintaining America as we have known it in the past. This is about  returning the American people to some fiscal sanity, which my friends  on the left will not do and never have done, particularly in the last 4  years.