Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''; and Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688091/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-consumer-gas-fired-instantaneous-water-heaters-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-waste-emissions-charge-for-petroleum-and-natural-gas-systems-procedures-for-facilitating-compliance-including-netting-and-exemptions-and-providing-for-consideration-of-h-con-res-concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Houchin for leading  this debate, and I rise in full support of the House budget resolution  as introduced by Chairman Arrington.

What our viewers, both in the balcony and watching this by TV, are  going to see is two different worldviews.

My friends on the left think tax money is their money, that you  shouldn't know where it is spent in any shape, form, or fashion.

Where they want to spend our tax dollars, which is now being  uncovered by Elon Musk, is on a variety of things, but it began 4 years  ago with the invasion of the border.

My friends from the left, the minute the Biden administration took  office, opened the gates for over 170 different countries to let  everybody and anybody into this country. My friends on the left allowed  400,000 unaccompanied minors to come into this country, and we don't  know what happened to them. It is not good, though.

They claim to sympathize with people in this country, but what about  sympathy for the children? They did nothing to stop the invasion at the  border. They had words, but that is all it was.

They want the American people to know that it is their money to spend  on illegal aliens' free college tuition, putting it on the backs of the  everyday working man.

This is the first step in a long journey of what we are voting on  today. From the very first day I set foot in this Chamber, I have  always promised my constituents that I would do everything within my  power to reinstate fiscal sanity to our great Nation.

What is worse than a bankrupt country? How does that help children?  How does that help single moms? It doesn't. That is what this bill  attempts to stop or at least begin the process of healing.

We now suffer from World War II levels of indebtedness and pay more  on interest than we do on our national defense, to the tune of over  $880 billion in interest.

Unfortunately, many Members of Congress have demonstrated a complete  lack of fiscal discipline and will try to spoil a strong bill that  President Trump himself has endorsed.

This budget resolution enables us to reach over $4.5 trillion in tax  cuts for hardworking Americans and more than $2 trillion in spending  cuts, a concept that Congress has been foreign to for way too long.

With a historic trifecta, since the Republicans were elected by 77  million people to control the House, the Senate, and the executive  branch, we have the opportunity to deliver on our promise to America.  We must do what is best for them, including raising the debt ceiling by  $4 trillion to prevent Democrats from using a fiscal crisis to hold  Trump's agenda hostage.

The Speaker pro tempore (Mr. Ciscomani). The time of the gentleman  has expired.

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, due to the previous Biden administration's  failed security measures, included in our budget is $300 billion in  critical and urgent funding for strengthened border security and our  Armed Forces.

America is paying twice. We pay to ship illegals over here. We pay to  feed illegals over here. We pay to house illegals over here. Now, we  are having to take them back. We are for immigration, but the right  way.

All in all, this package, combined with economic growth unleashed by  the America First agenda, can ensure it will provide a deficit-neutral  outcome, including seven times the amount of cuts that were initially  unveiled. For every dollar that Republicans surpass the goal of  spending cuts, there will be another dollar in tax cuts.

I am proud to support this budget that finally implements fiscal and  budgetary constraints on Congress. It is the first step to unlocking  the reconciliation process ahead of us.

Previously, under Democrats' failed leadership, which we had 4 years  of, nonsense welfare programs ate at the budget, allotting billions for  mindless spending.

The American people have had enough, which is why we are in the new  age of the golden age.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for allowing me to speak and for  putting this argument up.