Recognizing Phil Ginn


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688470/recognizing-phil-ginn


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a truly remarkable  individual, Phil Ginn, whose unwavering commitment to his community has  been an inspiration to all of us who know him.

His lifetime of service to his family, to his faith, and to his  country has made him an institution in his community, and his influence  will be felt for generations to come.

Judge Ginn's pursuit of excellence began with his education. He  graduated magna cum laude from Appalachian State University and earned  his law degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  His legal career spanned over four decades, including 22 years as the  senior resident superior court judge for the 24th Judicial District in  North Carolina. Throughout his tenure, he upheld the rule of law with  wisdom, with fairness, and with integrity.

Judge Ginn's influence extended far beyond the courtroom, where he  not only delivered legal rulings but also mentored those around him,  always striving to instill truth and justice.

After retiring from the bench in 2014, Judge Ginn transitioned to the  business world as he purchased a struggling horizontal pump company in  Tulsa, Oklahoma. Over the next 3 years, with the help of key employees  and through exemplary leadership, he managed to turn the business into  one of the largest privately owned horizontal pump companies in the  United States.

In early 2018, Judge Ginn completed the sale of the company and  returned to his beloved mountains of western North Carolina.

It is not just in law and business where Judge Ginn's legacy is  found. His greatest passion has always been his faith. His devotion led  him to serve as chairman of the Southern Evangelical Seminary board of  trustees. In 2021, he assumed the role of the sixth president of the  board. Under his leadership, the seminary has continued its vital  mission to evangelize our culture as a defender and as a disciple of  the Christian faith.

Founded in 1992 by Dr. Norman Geisler and Dr. Ross Rhoads, Southern  Evangelical Seminary is widely recognized as one of the top 10  evangelical Christian seminaries in the country, offering accredited  programs rooted in a classical philosophy of education.

Recently, SES has further enhanced its national standing as one of  the premier evangelical seminaries in America through the establishment  and  dedication of a new innovative training center in Rock Hill, South  Carolina. The center includes a state-of-the-art, fully digital campus  that serves as a thriving international body.

Throughout his accomplishments, Judge Ginn has remained a devoted  husband, a devoted father, and a devoted grandfather. He and his wife,  Lynn, have been married for over 40 years and have raised four  daughters, three sons-in-law, and five grandchildren, imparting to them  the same values of faith, service, and community that have helped shape  his life and legacy.

Above all of his many accomplishments, it is Judge Ginn's unwavering  faith in the Lord Jesus Christ that has truly defined his life. In his  courtroom, in his office, and in his personal life, the Holy Bible has  been a standard of truth, the source of all wisdom, and the promise  upon which he stands.

In dealing with his fellow man, he is a person who knows no  superiors. He is a person who knows no inferiors. He lives by the  values instilled in him at a young age by his parents, the Reverend and  Mrs. Charles Ginn, to treat others without regard for position or  power, respect elders and love children, work hard, speak the truth,  stand for the American flag and those who fight for our freedom, and  give generously but quietly.

Judge Ginn's life is a master class in respect, honor, and kindness,  and his legacy will be long remembered not just for his accomplishments  but for his character.

Judge Ginn's legacy of leadership, compassion, and commitment to  justice continues to inspire all who encounter him. He is a man who  lives by the Bible and is proof of: ``To whom much is given, much will  be required.''

On behalf of the people of South Carolina's Fifth Congressional  District, I extend my deepest congratulations to Judge Ginn and his  family on his well-deserved recognition. His life reminds us that true  leadership begins with being a good and honorable person.

Mr. Speaker, please join me in giving heartfelt thanks to Judge Phil  Ginn.