Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695252/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, my amendment prohibits provisions of gender  transition procedures including surgery or medication through the  Exceptional Family Member Program.

The Exceptional Family Member Program provides resources to military  families with special needs. This program is designed for military  spouses, children, or other dependent family members who require  ongoing medical or educational services, such as individuals with  asthma, autism, chronic respiratory illnesses, intellectual  disabilities, and much more.

Under the Biden administration, the Air Force suggested using the  Exceptional Family Member Program for families who want to help their  child transition. Democrats also introduced a bill to expand this  program to include transgender dependence and specifically lists gender  dysphoria as a qualifying medical need to be included in the program.

My amendment ensures that we reserve this valuable program for its  original intent to help families with special needs by prohibiting the  use of the program for the provision or referral for gender transition  procedures such as gender surgery or medication.

The Exceptional Family Member Program, otherwise known as EFMP,  should be used fully to support families with special needs and chronic  illnesses, not for gender transition procedures, as has been mentioned.

The program, as it was intended, specifically lists certain things  for identifying families with special needs which includes the  following: potentially life-threatening or chronic conditions, current  or chronic mental health conditions, asthma or other respiratory- related diagnoses with chronic recurring symptoms, intellectual or  developmental delays, attention deficit disorder or attention deficit  hyperactivity disorder, chronic conditions that require adaptive  equipment which assistive technology devices, or environmental or  architectural considerations.

Allowing gender transitioning procedures through the EFMP goes  against the very intention the program was designed for. It provides  valuable resources for families who otherwise would not have the funds  to do so. Gender transitioning is not covered under any of the criteria  for identifying individuals eligible for the EFMP.

Mr. Chair, I ask for adoption of this amendment, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, all I would add to that is we have got an  obligation to the American people to keep this country safe and to  support our finest military men who are willing to risk it all in  defense of America.

My friend on the opposite side of the aisle mentions hip surgery. I  think that is entirely different than a sex change operation. That  doesn't say the person doesn't have it. With regard to the military and  the funding, that is not where the money should come from.

How about telling that child who has asthma that he has no treatment?  How about telling that child with a mental impairment there is no money  to do it and that we have to put the money toward somebody who is not  sure about what sex they are?

It is just not a priority in the military. The funding should not be  set aside for that. There is a set amount of dollars that have to go  toward this valuable appropriations process, and it is not to determine  what somebody's sex is. This needs to be decided in other places with  their own money and at other times.

Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Chair, let me just put some numbers to this. Over the  course of 5 years, the Pentagon spent $15 million--$15 million--in  treating 1,892 transgender troops, including $11.5 million for  psychotherapy and $3.1 million for surgeries, according to the  Department of Defense.

The price tag for individual gender-affirming surgical procedures and  other medical treatments can range from $8,000 to $100,000. To compare  hip surgery to a sex-change operation, it is two different worlds and  two different thoughts that we just have a complete difference of  opinion.

I think if you take a survey of any of the troops, Mr. Chair, who are  serving this country, the vast majority would say that transgender  surgeries have no place in the military.

The public to be borne with that price tag is, to be honest with you,  Mr. Chair, incomprehensible.