Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. COLE.  7006, and that I may include  tabular material on the same.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise in support of H.R. 7006, the Financial Services- General Government bill, which institutes fiscal year 2026 funding for  the Financial Services and General Government and National Security,  Department of State, and Related Programs appropriations measures.

This Congress has a fundamental responsibility to fund the  government, and this two-bill package is our next step toward  completing the full 12 bills.

When done the right way, funding the government is not a single vote.  It is a process that requires steady, deliberative progress. I am proud  to say we are doing just that.

Today marks the second time this month that we are bringing  bipartisan, bicameral bills to the floor. We promised the American  people a responsible Member-driven process, and that is precisely what  we are delivering.

This two-bill package reflects Member input, the America-first  agenda, and the collaboration across political aisles and Chambers that  serves the Nation.

Advancing full-year appropriations matters because it gives the  country certainty and direction. It allows vital agencies to plan, make  decisions, and do their jobs based on today's realities and not  policies from the past. That is how we move from promises to action and  carry out the America-first agenda mandated by the people.

Mr. Chair, those priorities are reflected throughout the measure  before us. Through the Financial Services-General Government portion of  the bill, Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee  Chairman   David Joyce advanced important provisions that drive  economic growth, uphold consumer freedom, and support entrepreneurship  and small businesses, reinforcing the foundations of the American Dream  for people and job creators nationwide.

It also advances needed government efficiencies by cutting waste,  modernizing technology and cybersecurity, and addressing unused Federal  space and buildings. Crucially, it also protects Americans from a  supercharged IRS by cutting enforcement and redirecting resources to  customer service. This is especially important as we approach tax- filing season and implement the working families tax cut, allowing  families to keep more of what they earn.

Just as this package strengthens economic security and  accountability, it also reinforces America's security and leadership at  home and abroad. The National Security-Department of State measures  champion an America-first policy agenda. We replaced the weakness of  prior administrations by restoring President Trump's Peace Through  Strength agenda. National Security, Department of State, and Related  Programs Subcommittee Chairman Mario Diaz-Balart took decisive action  to reprioritize funding in support of our Nation's security. This  allowed us to eliminate $9.3 billion in spending while reasserting  deterrence and leadership.

To protect the safety, freedom, and prosperity of the American  people, we showed that focused strategy, not endless spending, is what  delivers results. We make critical investments in high-impact  initiatives that combat narcotics and human trafficking, confront the  malign influence of the Chinese Communist Party, and counter terrorism.

We reinforce democracy and human rights efforts, and we defend  religious liberty. As both a moral duty and vital American interest, we  will not tolerate religious persecution and attacks on faith. Upholding  those values strengthens American leadership and advances freedom  around the world.

We also eliminate wasteful initiatives, implement the necessary  accountability at the United Nations, and prohibit any funds for things  like UNRWA or the Taliban. The bottom line: We counter our foes, stand  with our friends, and ensure investments are focused on security,  keeping Americans safe, and enhancing our global edge.

Taken in its entirety, the package serves a clear purpose: safety,  strength, and freedom. That is certainly something that we can all  support.

I commend the detailed work of our chairmen, Representatives Joyce  and  Diaz-Balart. Their leadership and careful stewardship of this package  ensured that the substance of the bill matched the responsibility of  the task.

I thank their accompanying ranking members, Representative Steny  Hoyer and Lois Frankel, for their professionalism and engagement in the  process. This work demonstrates what we can accomplish through  collaboration and respect.

I also particularly thank my good friend and working partner, the  distinguished ranking member of the full committee, Ms. DeLauro, and I  also thank the superb staff on both sides of the aisle who worked  tirelessly to present us with the product before us today.

As I look ahead, Mr. Chairman, to today's vote, I am grateful for the  future that I see, one where President Trump keeps his pen ready  because full-year appropriations are advancing and certainty is being  restored.

Mr. Chair, I thank my colleagues for their time. I urge all Members  to support this bipartisan package, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  Florida (Mr. Diaz-Balart), my very good friend and the vice chair of  the full committee and chair of the National Security, Department of  State, and Related Programs Subcommittee of the Committee on  Appropriations.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the  gentleman from Florida.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio  (Mr. Joyce), my very good friend and the distinguished chair of the  Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee of the  Appropriations Committee.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from North  Carolina (Mr. Edwards), my very good friend who is the distinguished  vice chairman of the National Security, Department of State, and  Related Programs Subcommittee.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the  gentleman from North Carolina.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New  York (Mr. LaLota), who is the distinguished vice chairman of the  Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee of the  Appropriations Committee.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the  gentleman from New York.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Missouri (Mr. Alford), my very good friend and valued member of the  Appropriations Committee.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the  gentleman from Missouri.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Arkansas (Mr. Hill), my very good friend, the distinguished chairman of  the Financial Services Committee.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio  (Mr. Turner), my very good friend and classmate.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Chair, I begin by, number one, thanking my very good friend, the  ranking member of the full committee. As I said in my opening  statement, this is a process, and we are a long way into the process  now, thanks, in large part, to her efforts and certainly the efforts of  the ranking members and chairs of the two committees whose legislative  work we are considering today.

It is important to recognize that these bills together reduce  funding. They actually reduce funding. A CR would actually cost us  more. They also update, refine, and change language in some cases that  is 2 and 3 years old and is simply out of date with the current  circumstances.

If we were to fail to pass these bills in these respective areas,  then that language would remain intact. I think it is important to  recognize that we were able to come to agreements in this way simply  because we have a common commitment to a set of principles and a  process that really isn't partisan in nature.

I know my friend, Ms. DeLauro, and I know her colleagues believe very  much in the Article I power of Congress. We assert that power by  passing appropriations bills. I commend my friends for working with us  to do that.

I know my friends also believe very deeply in the importance and the  power of the Appropriations Committee. So do I. The fact is, we know  that to get our job done, at the end of the day, it is going to have to  be bipartisan and bicameral. A lot of people are going to have to move  or give up some things that they feel very strongly about for the  greater good of making sure that the Government of the United States is  appropriately funded. We do it in a way that, again, as my good friend  Mr. Hoyer said, it is not the bill any of us would have written  individually, but the point is, it is a collaborative effort of give  and take that has produced something that the vast majority of us can  and will vote for today.

This is eight bills into this process. We have a big job in the few  days ahead of us till the end of the month, but I share my friend the  ranking member's confidence that we can get that job done and that we  can be back here and find a way to put all these bills in front of this  Chamber for their consideration and also pass them and make sure the  Government of the United States is funded on a bipartisan, bicameral  basis through the balance of this fiscal year.

Mr. Chair, I share my friend's pride in the product in front of us. I  know if she got to write it all by herself, it would look a little bit  different. She knows if I got to write it all by myself, it would look  different. The point is, this is one we got to write together with give  and take, and I am very proud that this committee got every one of its  bills out of committee, sat down and worked with our colleagues in the  other Chamber on both sides of the aisle, and has produced a product  that we know we have broad consensus on.

Mr. Chair, I will end by commending all those involved. My friend,  Ms. DeLauro, always makes a point of how important the staff is in this  process, and that is absolutely true. While a lot of people were  celebrating the holidays, and appropriately so, that wasn't true if you  worked on the Appropriations staff, unless you were one of the lucky  three that got their bills done last year. They had a merry Christmas.

Everybody else was working through the Christmas holidays to produce  these products. It is enormously complex. There is a lot of work  involved, an extraordinary amount of work for the staff. I share my  friend's pride in their efforts and gratitude for their success.

Mr. Chair, I urge the passage of H.R. 7006. I will also remind  everyone that it is not quite done. We have a lot to do in the next few  days ahead of us, but this helps set the precedent, helps move the  process along, and gives us a much better chance of success as we deal  with these final, critical bills. It will make sure that we both avoid  a shutdown and give the American people assurance that the government  will be functional, operational, and working in a bipartisan, bicameral  process between now and September 30 of this year.

Mr. Chair, I urge the passage of the legislation before us, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I move that the Committee do now rise.

The motion was agreed to.

Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.  Joyce of Ohio) having assumed the chair, Mr. Williams of Texas, Acting  Chair of the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union,  reported that that Committee, having had under consideration the bill  (H.R. 7006) making further consolidated appropriations for the fiscal  year ending September 30, 2026, and for other purposes, had come to no  resolution thereon.