Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. COLE. Mr. Chair, I thank my good friend, Judge Carter, for  yielding me time.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of this important piece of  legislation. Prioritizing veterans and troops says everything about our  values, and that is exactly what this first fiscal year 2026  appropriations bill does.

The Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies  Appropriations Act, 2026, is a testament to caring for those who have  selflessly worn America's uniform, their families, and the defenders  who follow their path of service. We meet this mission not only in  words of gratitude but in policies that support them.

This legislation provides full funding for healthcare and benefits  for our Nation's veterans and implements an advance for the Cost of War  Toxic Exposures Fund. This marks enhanced investment under President  Trump, which is also reflected in critical mental health initiatives  and work to fight homelessness.

It devotes funding to improve quality of life, including childcare  and housing resources for military families who help carry the weight  of their loved one's service.

It reaffirms our commitment to peace through strength by providing  for military base infrastructure and key deterrence efforts in the  Indo-Pacific.

It also honors our heroes, ensuring the preservation of national  military cemeteries and memorials.

With this legislation, our obligations to our Armed Forces, past and  present, and our security are upheld. A vote ``yes'' is a vote to put  our veterans, military families, base readiness, and America first.

I thank Chairman Carter for his hard work on this measure, and I urge  all of my colleagues to join me in supporting it on final passage.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3\1/2\ minutes to the  gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Bishop), my dear friend who is the  distinguished ranking member of the Agriculture, Rural Development,  Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.