Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. MENG. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this appropriations  package.

As the ranking member of CJS, this may not be the bill I would have  drafted if my Democratic colleagues and I were in the majority, but it  is a strong, responsible compromise that meets the needs of the  American people. I will be voting in favor, and I urge my colleagues to  do the same.

I am proud that this bill increases funding for grants to State and  local law enforcement, including for Community Oriented Policing  Services programs and the Violence Against Women Act. These funds are  vital for the public safety of all of our local communities and for  victim services.

Earlier proposals, including the President's budget requests in the  previous House bill, eliminated funding for the community violence  intervention and prevention program. Thanks to Democrats' advocacy, we  secured level funding to continue this important program in this bill.

Earlier proposals also zeroed out funding for grant programs to  prevent hate crimes. I am proud that we ensured these programs will  continue without cuts.

We secured strong funding levels for the Economic Development  Administration and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program,  which both work to create and preserve good jobs in the United States.

We continued and funded three agencies that the Trump administration  wanted to eliminate entirely: the Minority Business Development Agency,  the Legal Services Corporation, and the DOJ's Community Relations  Service.

This bill also resoundingly rejects efforts to cut funding for basic  scientific research, technology development, and STEM education at NSF  and NASA.

Importantly, this bill strengthens congressional oversight and  control over funding for Federal agencies, to ensure that they spend  this money as Congress intended rather than for their own political  purposes.

Last but not least, every single one of the extreme, partisan policy  riders contained in the previous House CJS bill has been removed from  the bill before us today.

I am proud of the work we have done in this bipartisan package. I  thank Chairman   Tom Cole and his team, and our subcommittee Chairman  Hal Rogers and his team, for their cooperation. I thank our ranking  member of the Appropriations Committee, Rosa DeLauro, and her team, for  her leadership. I especially thank our Appropriations subcommittee  staff, Bob Bonner, Jamie Wise, Nora Faye, and Faye Cobb, for their  tireless work on this, and also Tom Dinegar and Rebecca Lee from my  individual office, as well.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill.