Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. HOEVEN. Madam President, I rise today to honor Grand Forks Police  Officer Cody Holte, who died in the line of duty last Wednesday. Both  Senator Cramer and myself are here. We attended the funeral. It was  truly a moving event. Today, we are here to honor him on the Senate  floor as well and honor his service and honor his life. 

  Officer Holte is a Hendrum, MN, native, a 2010 graduate of Norman  County West High School, and a 2015 graduate of Minnesota State  University Moorhead, with a degree in criminal justice and minors in  Sociology and military science. 

  Officer Holte led a life of service, dedicating himself to serving  his community, State, and nation by always putting the people he served  first. Not only was Officer Holte an exceptional police officer, he  also served as a first lieutenant in the North Dakota Army National  Guard. For 10 years, I was Governor in North Dakota, and I can't tell  you how much we relied then and, of course, how much we rely now on our  National Guard. As you can see, Cody was a first lieutenant in the  National Guard, and he did a fabulous job. Here he is in his guard  uniform and, of course, his incredible service as a police officer in  Grand Forks. 

  Lieutenant Holte enlisted in the Army Reserve in 2010, and in 2015 he  was commissioned into the North Dakota Army National Guard. He was last  assigned to the 815th Engineer Company out of Lisbon, ND, where he  served as a detachment commander, preparing his unit for upcoming  missions. 

  As an officer in Grand Forks and a first lieutenant in the North  Dakota National Guard, Officer Holte served our Nation on multiple  fronts. Through his leadership, courage, and work  ethic, he displayed the very best the State of North Dakota has to  offer while also helping to ensure our safety and security. 

  You realize how important it is today not only here at home but  abroad. Here is somebody who served in both capacities. What a life of  service. 

  My wife Mikey and I extend our deepest condolences to the Holte  family--especially his wife Amanda, his son Gunnar, his parents Bret  and Tracy, sister Alexis, and twin brother Brady, who is also a police  officer and also served in the military. He served with the regular  Army--Cody's brother Brady--and now Brady serves with the Fargo PD.  Here you have these twin brothers, both serving in the military, both  serving as police officers, one in Grand Forks and one in Fargo. They  were very close, as you can imagine. 

  Last Wednesday, North Dakota lost one of its finest. Because of this,  we must always honor his memory, in part, by supporting those who  continue to serve as he did and never forgetting the burden his loved  ones bear on our behalf. They sacrifice too. 

  With that, I want to yield the floor to Senator Cramer, who had the  good fortune to know the family personally and had a long relationship  with the family. I welcome and look forward to his remarks about Cody  Holte, somebody who is truly an exceptional person and whose life  epitomized service. And we pray for God's blessing on him and on his  entire family. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT