Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise with my esteemed colleague from  West Virginia and my colleague from Missouri and others to remember, to  commemorate, and to honor those who have given their lives in service  to our  country. Those who fought and died for our Nation have secured our  freedoms, and we are forever indebted to them. That includes many North  Dakotans who gave their lives serving in our Nation's Armed Forces.  These fallen heroes served in World War I, World War II, Korea,  Vietnam, Iraq, and Afghanistan. 

  While we set aside a day each year, Memorial Day, to honor those who  have given their lives on behalf of our Nation, every day we are  reminded of the dedication and sacrifice of those who serve to protect  our freedoms and liberty. 

  We must never forget those who have made the ultimate sacrifice, as  well as those who are missing in action. That is why in 2014 I  supported legislation to create the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency.  This DOD Agency seeks to locate the nearly 82,000 missing service  personnel, so we can bring them home and provide answers to their  families. 

  We also recognize that those who serve do not serve alone. The  friends and family of those in the service of our country also serve,  and those who have lost loved ones know well the cost of freedom. As  fellow Americans, it is our duty to ensure that their survivors are  taken care of and that these heroes are never forgotten. 

  We can better uphold our promise and honor those who made the  ultimate sacrifice by providing their fellow servicemembers, veterans,  and their survivors with the healthcare benefits and recognition that  they have earned. That is why we continue to work with the Department  of Veteran Affairs as they implement the VA MISSION Act, which gives  our veterans more options to seek care in their home communities, and  veterans are provided access to long-term and nursing home care closer  to home. 

  Last fall, I also helped to dedicate the Fargo National Cemetery, the  first VA national cemetery in North Dakota. We worked to secure the  cemetery because its presence allows North Dakotans who have served to  be laid to rest with honor, while being close enough to their homes for  family and loved ones to visit and pay their respects to our heroes. 

  The new cemetery complements the North Dakota Veterans Cemetery in  Mandan, which is operated by the State. To help support maintenance and  operations of our State's veterans cemeteries, I am helping to  introduce a bipartisan bill--the Veterans Cemetery Grants Improvement  Act--with Senators Tester, Rounds, and Reed, so that State-operated  veterans cemeteries receive the funding they need to ensure that all of  our veterans can be laid to rest closer to their loved ones. 

  Our servicemembers and their families have given much in defense of  our Nation and our way of life. The State of North Dakota especially  has a rich tradition of military service. 

  With deepest appreciation and admiration, we look to the meaning of  their service, never forgetting to honor those who have passed, and we  extend our gratitude to the families and loved ones left behind. 

  May God bless those who have gone before, those who continue to  serve, and may He continue to bless this great country that they have  served so very well. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT