Hoeven: BOR Releases Draft EIS for Endaws Project


Senator John Hoeven, a member of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) released the draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Eastern North Dakota Alternate Water Supply (ENDAWS) Project. Hoeven spoke with BOR Great Plains Regional Director Mike Black last month, urging him to keep the EIS process on schedule in order to maintain the Garrison Diversion's timeline for the project.

The BOR has posted the draft EIS to the Federal Register, here, and is accepting public comments on the project until July 6, 2020. Additional details can be found on the Bureau's website. These are important steps toward finalizing the EIS, which is required for construction of ENDAWS project features, issuance of a water repayment contract for Garrison Diversion Unit facilities and the issuance of permits to construct and maintain ENDAWS facilities on BOR rights-of-way.

"A reliable water supply is critical for supporting the continued growth of our state, and the ENDAWS project will help meet a central need for communities in eastern North Dakota," said Hoeven. "We appreciate BOR, including Regional Director Black, for continuing to work on advancing the EIS process. We encourage local residents and officials to give their input and help move this project forward."

The ENDAWS project would allow for additional water to be released from Garrison Diversion facilities to serve as an alternate water source for the Red River Valley and Central North Dakota Water Supply projects. The Garrison Diversion estimates that the alternative water supply would reduce project costs by $200 million while also saving on operating costs by using the Snake Creek Pumping Station to pump water. The EIS will help advance an additional contract to bring the total water allowed from the Garrison Diversion up to 165 cubic feet per second (CFS). 

Hoeven has worked both as governor and U.S. Senator to advance water infrastructure projects for North Dakota, including an initial contract for 20 CFS from the Missouri River to benefit water supplies in the central and eastern parts of the state.