Hoeven Updates Agriculture Stakeholders For Farmers, Ranchers, Rural Communities In Cares Act


Senator John Hoeven, chairman of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Committee, today outlined to farmers, ranchers, commodity groups and other agriculture industry organizations the nearly $25 billion in agriculture assistance he secured in the Senate-passed Phase III coronavirus response. The senator provided the updates as part of a conference call organized by Governor Doug Burgum and North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Doug Goehring. Specifically, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which was signed into law last week, provides:

$14 billion to replenish Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) borrowing authority for the U.S Department of Agriculture (USDA).$9.5 billion in separate funding for USDA to help producers, including specialty crop and livestock producers, impacted by COVID-19. Support for rural communities, including:$1 billion in lending authority for the Business and Industry loan guarantee program.$100 million for the Reconnect broadband loan and grant program.$25 million for Distance Learning, Telemedicine and Broadband Program."The support we secured for our farmers and ranchers under the CARES Act comes at a critical time for agriculture," said Hoeven. "We appreciate Governor Burgum and Commissioner Goehring for working with us to get this info out to ag groups around North Dakota. We will continue our efforts with the administration as well as our farmers and ranchers, including through more conversations like the one today, to ensure this assistance is delivered promptly and meets the needs of rural America as best as possible."

Hoeven worked continuously to ensure support for farm country in the CARES Act, including leading a Senate colloquy to outline the importance of the provisions after the original legislation was blocked from advancing. Hoeven also worked with the American Farm Bureau to organize a letter of support from agriculture groups across rural America. Click here for the letter of support.

In addition, the Phase III legislation provides $80 million to help the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) develop medical countermeasures and vaccines, advance domestic manufacturing for medical products, and monitor medical product supply chains, and $25 billion to meet increased needs for nutrition and food assistance programs.