Hoeven Statement on President's 2020 State of the Union Address


Senator John Hoeven today issued the following statement after President Trump delivered the 2020 State of the Union address:

"The President's address covered key priorities for our nation and for North Dakota. Economic growth continues to be strong, providing higher wages and the lowest unemployment rate in five decades. In fact, our country experienced wage growth at or above 3 percent for 16 months straight, well above any other gains since the Great Recession. 

"The tax and regulatory relief we passed helped unlock this potential, and the President made clear we will continue working to advance this kind of pro-growth agenda. Further, the energy revolution in states like North Dakota has helped encourage this economic expansion and has protected our economy from instability overseas.

"These accomplishments will be bolstered by the recent trade agreements we've secured, including the signing of USMCA and the phase-one trade deal with China. These agreements provide North Dakota agriculture and energy producers with much-needed access to valuable foreign markets, including our two biggest trading partners, and we continue to be encouraged by the progress being made with Japan and the EU.

"Looking forward, President Trump discussed opportunities to improve the quality of life for our nation's citizens, including reducing the cost of health care. This includes ongoing legislative efforts in the Senate to lower the price of prescription drugs, as well as the need to increase competition in the health insurance market and give consumers more choice.

"The President also outlined important priorities for our national security. That includes securing our borders and ensuring we continue advancing construction of the border wall, along with investing in technology and personnel to prevent illegal crossings and stem the tide of drug trafficking and criminal activity. At the same time, we will continue to support our nation's military servicemembers and veterans. All of the freedoms and privileges we enjoy as Americans are due to their service. It is only right that we give them the pay, benefits and recognition that they have earned, while also providing the support they need to be successful in their missions."