Recognizing the North Dakota State University Bison Football Team


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about the North  Dakota State University Bison football team, and I am really excited to  be able to do that. Last weekend, the Bison capped another impressive  football season by winning their eighth FCS national title in 9 years.  The Bison broke their own record for the most FCS titles of all time,  eight in the last 9 years--an unbelievable accomplishment. 

  They have now won 16 NCAA football championships. NDSU just had a  truly impressive team this year, and they just have a tremendous  program, as they have demonstrated year after year. 

  I had the chance to be in Frisco last weekend with Bison Nation. They  have an incredible following. We call them ``Bison Nation'' because  they go wherever the football team goes, and they make a lot of noise.  I had the opportunity to be there with them and cheer on the team as  they faced off against James Madison University, the Dukes. It was a  hard-fought win for the Bison, and the Dukes should also be  congratulated. They have a great program--a first-class program--and  great fans. I talked to a lot of them. They could not have been not  only more supportive of their team, but they could not have been more  complimentary of the Bison and their great program. Again I just want  to say: James Madison, a real great program and a real class act--their  team, their program, and their fans. Kudos to them as well. 

  It was just a great effort by our team all around. Just a few stats:  The win by the Bison on Saturday capped off an unbeaten season of 16-0.  That is the first time a Division I team has gone 16-0, unbeaten, since  Yale did it in 1894--pretty remarkable, a pretty amazing  accomplishment. 

  You also have to realize that that brings their current winning  streak to 37 consecutive games, so they finished the year unbeaten, and  they are now up to a 37-game winning streak. 

  Next year, the second game of the season, we go to Oregon and play  Oregon at Oregon. That should be a really exciting game. It just shows  the caliber of football this team plays and just how great these  student athletes are. They are great young men as well. I am very  pleased that I was joined by my colleague Senator Cramer in sponsoring  this resolution, so I certainly want to express my appreciation to him  as well. 

  We recognize and we congratulate the players, including freshman  quarterback Trey Lance, who became the first player in the history of  the North Dakota State Bison football team and the first freshman  player in history--the first freshman player--to win the Walter Payton  Award. It is the first time a freshman has ever done so, which just  shows you what a great player he is and is just indicative of the kind  of athletes we have on that team. 

  We want to congratulate and honor the whole team. It was truly a team  effort, a great team, led by Coach Matt  Entz and his staff. This is Matt Entz's first year as head coach--what  a way to start off for Matt and what a great guy and what a great  coach. Also, the athletic director, Matt Larsen, again, just runs a  class program of not only football but all of the athletics at North  Dakota State University, as well as, of course, the fine leadership of  NDSU president Dean Bresciani at the university there, a good friend  and somebody who has done a great job leading the university. 

  Again, I also want to honor Bison Nation. The game was nationally  televised on Saturday at noon eastern time here on ABC. It wasn't just  our great team; it was Bison Nation, all the fans being there and  showing up in such a great way, too, with not only wearing the green  and yellow and Bison regalia but cheering and just doing a great job  like Bison Nation always does. 

  We are so proud of the program, so proud of the student athletes, the  coaches, and Bison Nation as a whole. We want to congratulate everybody  on another incredible year and an unbelievable achievement: eight  championships in 9 years. 

  With that, there is only one other thing to say: Go Bison. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT