Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688157/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-with-respect-to-energy


Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I am pleased to come to the floor again  today to discuss my resolution to block the Democrats' natural gas tax,  which I will call up right after we vote to affirm President Trump's  national energy emergency declaration.

The Biden administration's tax and regulatory onslaught over the past  4 years have driven up the cost of energy and led to a national energy  emergency for our Nation.

One of the most egregious examples is a new tax on natural gas, and  that is why I am leading S.J. Res. 12, a Congressional Review Act  resolution to block this tax from taking effect.

My resolution will rescind the rule implementing the Democrats'  natural gas tax that the Biden administration finalized late last year.

Congressional Democrats and President Biden mandated this new tax  under the so-called Inflation Reduction Act, which was, of course, the  Inflation Acceleration Act, taking inflation all the way up to 9  percent. The Environmental Protection Agency issued its final  implementing rule on November 18 of last year.

The EPA's natural gas tax rule imposes stringent methane emissions  charges on qualified petroleum and natural gas infrastructure, starting  at $900 a ton for emissions in 2024; it then goes up to $1,200; and  then, ultimately, up to $1,500 per ton in 2026 and subsequent years.

Unless overturned, this would be the first time the Federal  Government has ever imposed a direct tax on emissions. This new charge  can equate to an effective tax increase on natural gas on top of other  taxes of more than 5 percent.

This will have a disproportionate impact on small oil and gas  producers in my home State of North Dakota and across the country, many  of which already operate on thin margins and cannot afford the high  costs to comply with this onerous rule.

Simply put, this is a punitive tax that will be passed along to  consumers and will force energy developers to shut in production. That  means higher prices to heat your homes. That means higher prices to  cook your food. That means higher cost of natural gas for all  consumers. Also, less supply of domestic energy means higher gas bills  for consumers and an increased reliance on energy imports.

Instead of new taxes and regulations designed to stifle production,  we should be supporting innovation to maximize the use of our abundant  and affordable oil and gas reserves.

Our energy producers utilize the latest and the greatest technology,  enabling more energy production with the best environmental  stewardship.

Today, the United States is the world's largest oil and gas producer,  and at the same time, we have also led the world in emissions  reductions

Since 1990, U.S. natural gas production has doubled--this is an  interesting stat. Since 1990, U.S. natural gas production has doubled;  yet at the same time, we have reduced total emissions by 20 percent-- double the output--double the output and a 20-percent reduction in  emissions. We have been able to increase crude oil production by 60  percent over the same time period.

When I was Governor of North Dakota in 2000, our State was producing  less than 100,000 barrels a day. We took that up to 1.5 million barrels  of oil a day. This doesn't just happen overnight. It is because we work  to provide the regulatory certainty to empower innovation and  entrepreneurial spirit to unlock the potential for energy development  in our State and in our country.

As North Dakota became an energy powerhouse, our State producers have  worked hard to meet the challenges of managing growing volumes of  natural gas associated with oil production.

North Dakota producers have endeavored to dramatically increase the  targeted gas capture rate from 74 percent to 95 percent over the past  10 years, again, through innovation, through technology--the latest and  greatest methods that we have implemented.

Producers want to improve on that rate--and we continue to--but the  Biden administration and its Green New Deal allies tried to make it-- and, in fact, did make it--harder to permit the very gathering systems  that we needed to capture that natural gas. So they impeded our ability  to reduce emissions.

Instead of supporting more gathering lines and interstate pipelines,  the Biden administration's natural gas tax will hinder domestic  production.

Further, because our Nation generates over 40 percent of our  electricity from natural gas, burdensome taxes on natural gas producers  will result in more expensive and less reliable electricity, more  inflation for consumers across the country as a result.

Also, less production at home makes other nations and our allies  abroad more dependent on adversarial nations that have no regard for  environmental standards. Think Russia. Think Venezuela. Think OPEC.

At the end of the day, energy security directly impacts our economic  and national security. This is about taking the handcuffs off and  empowering our energy producers to increase supply and bring down  prices for American families and businesses. That is why we are working  to roll back the Biden administration's disastrous policies on energy,  like this natural gas tax.

I want to thank EPW, Chairwoman Capito, and the 25 other cosponsors  of my resolution.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this Congressional Review Act  resolution.

I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and the Trump  administration to repeal this misguided tax on natural gas, while  increasing energy production across the board in this country with good  environmental stewardship that will truly make America energy dominant  once again.

I yield back all remaining time.