Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, my amendment would prohibit the Department  of Defense from creating, procuring, or displaying any map which  depicts Taiwan as a part of the territory of the People's Republic of  China.

The House approved a similar amendment as part of the State  Department appropriations bill last Congress, and today's amendment  would simply extend this policy to the Department of Defense.

This is not a controversial amendment since all of us know that  Taiwan is not, nor has it ever been, part of Communist China, even for  a single day.

The people of Taiwan elect their own leaders, deploy their own armed  forces, conduct their own foreign policy, and maintain their own trade  agreements with other countries.

By every measure, Taiwan is a sovereign, democratic, and independent  nation, and any claims to the contrary are simply false.

Since the 1970s, America's so-called One China policy has  acknowledged Beijing's unsubstantiated claims over Taiwan. This is an  antiquated and dishonest policy, and it is one that we should abandon.  While my amendment will not end that misguided policy, it will at least  require that the maps that we use reflect a simple reality: China is  China. Taiwan is Taiwan.

Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, I yield such time as he may consume to the  gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).

Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from  Arizona (Mr. Biggs).

Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, I will close by saying that I appreciate  the consistency by the gentlewoman from Minnesota because she said the  same thing a couple of years ago. Yet, this body was excluded back in  1979 when the One China policy was implemented by President Carter, and  it is up to this body to make sure that it claims its rightful place in  foreign policy when we have an issue like this before us.

The gentlewoman talks about the spirit of this amendment. This  amendment is issued in the spirit of freedom, and that is all that  Taiwan is looking for, to defend its freedom, and it should be able to  do it.

Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.