Welcoming His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695076/welcoming-his-all-holiness-ecumenical-patriarch-bartholomew-to-the-united-states


Mr. HAMADEH of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to offer a warm  welcome to His All-Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, the  spiritual leader of 300 million Orthodox Christians throughout the  world and the current Archbishop of Constantinople, serving in one of  the oldest sees in Christendom. This month, Patriarch Bartholomew will  visit Washington, D.C., where he will be recognized as this year's  recipient of the prestigious Templeton Prize, an award that has been  garnered in the past by great historical figures such as Mother Teresa,  the Dalai Lama, and Archbishop Desmond Tutu.

In his previous visits to the United States, His All Holiness has had  visitations with five Presidents, he has spoken to both houses of  Congress and has been awarded the Congressional Gold Medal; the highest  award that civilian Congress can bestow. His next trip will maintain  that longstanding tradition of friendship between the United States and  the Ecumenical Patriarchate.

It is Patriarch Bartholomew's life that embodies ethical and  principled leadership and the patriarch's perseverance that became  proverbial. Fluent in seven languages and a holder of several  doctorates in Canon Law, he has tirelessly championed the cause of  religious freedom, inter-faith dialogue and environmental  responsibility--earning the endearing nickname ``the Green Patriarch'',  by stating that damaging God's creation is a sin.

At a time when religious persecution, catastrophes and tensions among  religious communities seem to be dominating news headlines, Patriarch  Bartholomew presents an alternate vision: ``War in the name of religion  is war against religion,'' he tells us. He calls on people of faith of  all traditions to be ``peacemakers'' and protectors of the Earth.

There are thousands of Greek-Americans living in Arizona's 8th  Congressional District, including the hundreds of faithful at St.  Haralambos Greek Orthodox Church in Peoria. They, and Orthodox  Christians throughout our land, welcome this visit with joy. My  constituents are particularly proud of the fact that Patriarch  Bartholomew has been an outspoken defender of human dignity and has  reached out to Jewish and Muslim leaders throughout the world.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in welcoming His All- Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to Washington, D.C., and in  paying tribute to his decades of ministry for peace, reconciliation and  environmental stewardship. May God continue to bestow his example as a  guide to defend religious freedom, choose cooperation over conflict,  and secure a healthier, safer America for future generations.