Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of the privileges of  the House and offer the resolution that was previously noticed.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today for a very serious issue that I think  troubles and disturbs every Member of the House of Representatives on  both sides of the aisle.

Mr. Speaker, decorum, order, and respect are the foundations for the  way that we conduct business in this Chamber, in this institution.

Respect for the institution is paramount. Respect for each other and  respect for the responsibility that each one of us has been given and  has been tasked with and who has the responsibility to the American  people are the building blocks and the most important facets of our  system that truly separate us, the United States of America, from the  rest of the world.

During the President's address just last night to a joint session of  Congress, Mr. Speaker, those principles were violated. The gentleman  from Texas (Mr. Green) performed one of most shameful acts that I have  ever seen on this floor.

As an advocate for bipartisan problem-solving and for working across  the aisle as hard as possible to come up with solutions for the people  whom I represent and for the people whom every single one of us  represents, I was deeply disappointed to see the behavior that we all  saw and that the world saw unfold in this Chamber.

I thank my Republican colleagues and certainly House leadership,  particularly Mr. Crane and Mr. Nehls, for helping elevate the  Conference's concern on this very, very important matter.

Mr. Speaker, we must maintain a standard in the House of  Representatives, and any Member's refusal to adhere to the Speaker's  direction to cease such behavior, regardless of their political party  and regardless of who is at the lectern giving a speech, has to and  must continue to be reprimanded. We cannot afford to let it go by.

Mr. Speaker, we can do better. Mr. Speaker, we must do better for  ourselves, for the institution, and for the people who sent us here.  Checking our emotion, checking our energy, and checking our rhetoric  and prioritizing decency between each other sends the message not only  to our colleagues but to the rest of the country and the rest of the  world that we are working for the people and not against each other.

With those brief comments, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I would just like to say that I respect  Mr. McGovern's opinion and his viewpoints. They may conflict with mine  on many occasions, but he has the absolute right to express them on  this floor, and we need to continue that tradition. However, this is  not about the President. This is not about President Trump.

This is about how we, as Members of the House of Representatives,  conduct ourselves while we are doing business on the House floor. This  is about how we treat each other. It is about how we treat each other,  whether with respect or not. It is so important, especially when the  eyes of the world are focused right here in this very room.

In my short time in Congress, which is just about a decade now, I  have never ever seen a Member of the House, by the direction of the  Speaker, escorted from the premises by the Sergeant at Arms. That is a  first.

Maybe, Mr. Speaker, you know of the last time it happened. It has  been a long time.

I am very disappointed and ashamed of the fact, and this is not  personal to Mr. Green, who is a very amiable fellow, but we must, as  Members of this institution, leave our rhetoric, calm our energy, and  make sure our emotions do not take over and conduct ourselves in a way  that all of us, not just here in this room but across the country, can  be proud of because we truly are on display to the rest of the world.

Mr. Speaker, this is very interesting to listen to the arguments  coming from the other side of the aisle about what we are doing here  tonight.

In talking about free speech, it seemed to me that the gentleman from  Texas was doing all he could to prohibit or get in the way of the  President of the United States exercising his free speech and his  address to the joint session.

This is not about policy. This is not about whether Republicans are  better than Democrats or vice versa. This is about how we conduct  ourselves on the House floor. This is about how we treat each other.  This is a reflection on every single one of us in this Chamber. As my  colleague from the State of Washington said, it is not just us this  affects. This affects the kids of our country, as well, who are  learning, one way or the other, from our examples.

You can go on and on about how much you disagree and detest some of  the policies and positions of the President of the United States. Be my  guest, but that is not what is being argued tonight. That is not the  issue that we are taking a stand on today. This is how we, as a body,  should conduct ourselves in these hallowed Halls, this Chamber, that  not very many people ever get to set foot into.

This is something we should hold to a higher standard. We have to or  else what are we? Are we just a debate club that yells at each other,  or do we stand for something? Do we truly see ourselves as  Representatives of the people of the United States?

Something has to change. It truly does. A line has to be drawn. Not  all of us on either side of the aisle are perfect examples of what we  could or should be, but certainly, as I mentioned before, in my career  here, I have never ever seen a Member of Congress escorted from the  floor of the House by the Sergeant At Arms. It has never happened in my  career, and I don't want to see it happen again.

I appreciate the comments of Mr. Doggett and do consider him a friend  as well, but let me just tell you that we are talking apples to oranges  when we are speaking about something that happened under President  Obama's speech on the Republican side.

Last night, Mr. Green was reprimanded at least three times by the  Speaker to stop and desist what he was doing, shaking his cane at the  President at the rostrum in a threatening manner, underscoring--what I  saw was emotion, energy and emotion; and intentionality, absolutely,  intending to disrupt the speech by the President of the United States.

I think we are talking about two different things here. The incident  during the Obama administration was over in just a few seconds. This  went on and on and on. Certainly, debating the issue is one thing in  different circumstances. This was not an open debate. Mr. Green was  trying to make it one.

This was a message from the President, so the actions that we are  proposing to take here are absolutely justified. The President was here  under invitation by the House of Representatives for a report to  Congress. It was not an open debate. It was a message being received by  the joint session, and that is the way it should be treated.

Respect should be given to the Presidency whether or not they are  your guy or your gal. It is the Office of the President that needs the  respect because it reflects on all of us as Members of the House of  Representatives.

Mr. NEWHOUSE. I am prepared to close, Mr. Speaker.

One of the things when I was a freshman in Congress that just shocked  me, amazed me, is how easily events on the floor would devolve into  what I would describe as something akin to a high school pep rally, and  that pains me to say that.

We are all adults here, discussing some of the most important issues  facing the American public, I would daresay the entire world, right  here in this Chamber. The things that happen in this Chamber that  reflect poorly on us reflect poorly on every single one of us.

I would say to you, Mr. Speaker, that this is truly a wake-up call  for this Chamber. The lack of decorum has reached a new high when the  President of the United States cannot even come into our Chamber,  invited, and complete his speech without the interaction that we saw  last night.

We have to take this action of censure. Let me tell you, there are  many people on my side of the aisle that would like to take this even  further. The notion of intentionality versus emotion does not justify  the actions that we witnessed last night, the disrespect of the  institution.

Using the argument that, well, our side did it so we can do it, too,  well, that doesn't work. That does not hold water.

Mr. Speaker, we can do better. Mr. Speaker, we must do better. We  cannot ignore the willful disruption intended to stop a proceeding.

Let me use another word that is also difficult to say. It was  shameful.

Without decorum, without respect, what have we got? What do we have?  Truly.

You have all seen the newsreels of other countries that chambers  similar to ours evolve into fistfights on the floor.

Is that where we are headed next? Is that what we want to have happen  so that these fine people that work their tails off every day can be  part of that and be the referees in a situation that is out of control?

Like I said, this shameful action reflects on every single one of us.  You are right. I will concede that all of us need a reminder that we  all need to raise our level of accountability due to the actions that  we take.

Mr. Speaker, I think this is a necessary but difficult step. This  resolution is offered in all seriousness. It is something that I  believe that we must do in order to get us to the next level of conduct  in this hallowed Chamber.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats,  to join with me to attain that better level of conduct. We owe it to  our constituents for sure. We owe it to our future constituents in this  country. We owe it to our country.