Providing for Consideration of H.R. Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Affordable Housing Over Mandating Efficiency Standards Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Indiana for  yielding me the time.

Ohio families are working harder than ever day in and day out just to  make ends meet. They are frustrated that they have to stretch their  dollar as far as it can go just to keep a roof over their heads, afford  to buy the basics, and deal with higher utility bills to keep their  water and power on. Buckeye families have worked too hard to struggle  this much, and I am standing here today ready to do something about it.

House Republicans have listened to hurting families, and we are  bringing forward legislation to help them get ahead. The Affordable  HOMES Act will cut through unnecessary and complicated red tape that  has been driving up the cost of manufactured housing for far too long.

Who has ultimately shouldered the burden of these soaring costs? It  is not the manufacturers. It is the hardworking families who are simply  trying to buy a home and live the once-attainable American Dream.

Owning a home shouldn't be this much of a challenge. This bill will  help Ohio families check homeownership off the list, knowing they were  able to achieve exactly what they worked for.

House Republicans are also reining in the Biden administration's  overregulation of everyday household water fixtures and bringing down  costs for all Americans with the SHOWER Act. I applaud Representative  Fry for leading on this legislation.

Americans don't need the government to tell them which showerhead to  use. They need the government to get out of the way so they can afford  the necessities and have money to spend on other things in their lives.  This bill will claw back ridiculous Biden-era red tape and put American  families first.

Lastly, I am working alongside my fellow Republicans to pass full- year funding for several critical programs. In my district, several  water and police projects will be funded, which will benefit some of  the poorest and most rural areas in this country. These projects will  help fund long-overdue water infrastructure projects and make local  improvements, ultimately driving down costs for communities throughout  the Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I recognize Representatives Houchin and Russell Fry, as  well as our Republican leadership and the Appropriations Committee led  by Chairman Cole, for their leadership on these critical pieces of  legislation being considered. I urge Congress to pass these commonsense  bills to lower the cost of living not only for Buckeye families but for  families across America.