Recognizing Ken Stewart


Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Ken Stewart.

Ken is a proud resident of Ohio's Second Congressional District and a  former firefighter with the Batavia Fire Department. Ken spent over  four decades with the department, working his way up from lieutenant to  chief.

This past summer, at the age of 85, Ken participated in the 2025  World Police and Fire Games, an Olympic competition specifically for  first responders that draws competitors from around the world. Ken  excelled in javelin throwing, high jump, and many other track events,  ultimately contributing 9 medals to the total of 1,362 brought home by  Team USA. Of his nine medals, three were gold and six were silver.

Not only is Ken an accomplished athlete and public servant, but he  was my science teacher at Amelia Middle School. I loved having him as a  teacher. It is wonderful to see him continue to achieve greatly and  inspire others around him.

Ken worked tirelessly to prepare for the games by exercising at his  local YMCA every day and allowing the thrill of competition to drive  his desire to win. Ken reminds us all how important it is to keep  moving and take care of ourselves so we can make the most of life at  any age.

Ken has centered his life around athletics, having been a high school  track and field official for 47 years and track coach for 60 years in  Clermont County. Ken even had the amazing opportunity to officiate the  1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia. His dedication to improving  the lives of young people is admirable.

Mr. Speaker, coaches and officials play a key role in shaping the  attitudes and beliefs of our Nation's youth, and my district is lucky  to have many people like Ken to look out for our athletes.

Madam Speaker, after a long and successful career, Ken plans to  retire from athletic events. To celebrate his achievements and his  dedication to his community, the Village of Batavia is naming July 14  ``Ken Stewart Day.'' I look forward to being in Batavia next year to  celebrate. We congratulate Ken. All of southern Ohio is very proud of  him.                  Recognizing Billy Ray ``Daddy-O'' Midkiff

Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Billy Ray  ``Daddy-O'' Midkiff and his extraordinary service to southern Ohio. Ray  began serving as a volunteer firefighter in 1977 with the Wilkesville  Volunteer Fire Department, and he became a charter member of the Salem  Township Volunteer Fire Department. He has over 50 years of service  including several years as fire chief for Salem Township.

Ray's roots in the community run deep, as he has also worked as a  dairy farmer and coal miner for the Southern Ohio Coal Company. Ray has  received numerous awards such as the National Grange Volunteer  Firefighter of the Year and was deemed a Hometown Hero by Modern  Woodmen. To this day he is an active fire chief and continues to give  back to southern Ohio.

Madam Speaker, America is forever grateful for people like him and  the millions of other first responders who put their lives on the line  for us every day. All of southern Ohio thanks Ray for his service.