Water Resources Technical Assistance Review Act


Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3427) to require the Comptroller General of the United  States to review all clean water-related technical assistance  authorities of the Environmental Protection Agency, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3427

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Water Resources Technical       Assistance Review Act''.       SEC. 2. GAO REPORT ON CLEAN WATER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall initiate a comprehensive review of all covered       technical assistance.

(b) Requirements.--The Comptroller General shall include in       the review required under subsection (a) the following:

(1) A description of all covered technical assistance       available to States, Tribes, local governments, and non-      governmental organizations, including--

(A) the regions and populations that are served through the       provision of technical assistance; and

(B) a summary of the activities and actions carried out       through covered technical assistance during the 5-year period       preceding this Act.

(2) A comprehensive review of how the Administrator of the       Environmental Protection Agency, through the Water Technical       Assistance initiative (known as ``WaterTA initiative''),       identifies, selects, and partners with technical assistance       providers to support communities, including--

(A) a description of the criteria, evaluation process, and       contracting mechanisms used for selecting such providers;

(B) a description of the extent of coordination with State,       Tribal, and regional partners in the selection and deployment       of such providers;

(C) a description of how such providers are matched to meet       the needs of local communities, including any pre-engagement       scoping activities or community consultations;

(D) a description of how such providers identify       communities in need of technical assistance, including       economically distressed communities, and conduct outreach to       such communities;

(E) a description of the scope and types of assistance       delivered through such initiative; and

(F) a list of communities that received technical       assistance support through such initiative, including the       type and cost of assistance received by each such community       and a summary of the outcomes associated with the provision       of such assistance.

(3) An analysis of any duplication of covered technical       assistance available through multiple programs of the       Environmental Protection Agency.

(4) An evaluation of how the provision of covered technical       assistance builds capacity in communities to access other       water infrastructure programs carried out by the       Administrator.

(5) An assessment of the needs of economically distressed       communities eligible to receive assistance under a clean       water infrastructure program carried out by the Administrator       that are not addressed through covered technical assistance.

(6) An evaluation of how the Administrator carries out       covered technical assistance in coordination with other       Federal agencies providing technical assistance related to       water infrastructure.

(7) An evaluation of how covered technical assistance       supports communities in understanding, identifying, and       implementing alternative and cost-effective technologies and       features of treatment works that achieve long-term savings       and improved outcomes in addressing water quality challenges.

(c) Report.--Upon the completion of the review conducted       under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall submit to       the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the       House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and       Public Works of the Senate a report containing--

(1) the findings of such review; and

(2) any recommendations to improve covered technical       assistance.

(d) Plan for Compliance.--Not later than 90 days after the       Comptroller General submits the report required under       subsection (c), and annually thereafter for a period of 5       years, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public       Works of the Senate a plan detailing any actions the       Administrator has taken to comply with the recommendations       contained in such a report.

(e) Covered Technical Assistance Defined.--In this section,       the term ``covered technical assistance'' means a technical       assistance authority, initiative, or program of the       Environmental Protection Agency that is related to clean       water infrastructure.

Mr. TAYLOR.  3427.

Mr. Speaker, my bill, H.R. 3427, the Water Resources Technical  Assistance Review Act, would instruct the Government Accountability  Office, or GAO, to conduct a study reviewing the EPA's technical  assistance programs.

Access to clean and safe water should not be determined by where you  live, Mr. Speaker. During my time in Congress, I have heard from  elected officials across southern Ohio about the difficulties they face  navigating the Federal grant process due to budgetary constraints,  insufficient time, and lack of technical expertise. This bill would  change that by helping Appalachian regions get connected to resources  they need to join the modern economy.

The EPA established technical assistance programs to connect rural  communities like those in my district and across the United States with  experts to help them navigate the Federal funding process to obtain  water infrastructure.

Unfortunately, some of these technical assistance programs have  failed to provide adequate assistance, hindering communities from  obtaining critical water infrastructure funding.

My bill would direct the GAO to conduct a comprehensive study  reviewing how the EPA identifies, selects, and partners with technical  assistance providers, and provide recommendations on how the EPA can  improve these technical assistance programs.

Once concluded, the EPA must submit a plan to Congress on how it  intends to reform its technical assistance programs, helping connect  communities with necessary resources to build and repair critical water  infrastructure.

I am proud to lead legislation that helps alleviate the struggles  that rural communities face in obtaining the infrastructure needed to  survive. When water infrastructure ages well past its intended  lifespan, Congress should support and advocate for programs that help  rural communities, not leave them behind.

I thank my friend and colleague, Representative Figures, for joining  me in this effort, and I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this  legislation to help communities across the United States receive the  assistance they need to obtain water infrastructure.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield  myself the balance of my time to close.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3427, the Water Resources Technical Assistance  Review Act, is a good government bill that would help ensure that the  EPA technical assistance programs effectively connect rural communities  with experts to help them access water infrastructure funding. It is a  step toward equal opportunity for areas that have long been denied it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support from all of my colleagues on this bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.