Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698036/promoting-efficient-review-for-modern-infrastructure-today-act


Mr. COLLINS. Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for his leadership on  our committee and for this piece of legislation, as well as all my  colleagues who had input into this piece of legislation.

Mr. Chair, it is a great piece of commonsense legislation. I tell  folks all the time I have got more years behind me than in front of me.  One of the reasons that I came to Washington, D.C., was to make sure  that my kids and the next generation had the same opportunities that I  did when I was growing up.

This piece of legislation addresses that. It is one of many pieces,  but it addresses that with the fact that all we are doing is asking for  the Federal Government to become more efficient and more productive.  When we do that, we make life more affordable for everyone.

Mr. Chair, it just does not make common sense that it takes over 10  years to build a road out. It does not make sense when we spend over 7  years fighting for permits and fighting frivolous lawsuits with  environmentalists on a build-out plan of 2\1/2\ or 3 years.

It doesn't make common sense when an electric generating power  company wants to build a natural gas facility but they will miss the  economic growth because it takes over 10 years to get a permit to lay  the pipeline.

It doesn't make common sense when our rural communities out there are  struggling. The water treatment facilities are worn out and they are  old, but they can't participate in the economic growth that is coming  because it will take them over a decade to get a permit. That is not  just to mention the fact this bill addresses clarity for our farmers  out there or more affordable homebuilding.

Mr. Chair, I know this is not a big, sexy headline topic, but this is  an important piece of legislation. It will help improve efficiency and  productivity with our Federal Government and make sure that life is  more affordable so that these young people can get out there and chase  their version of the American Dream.

Mr. Chair, I urge all my colleagues to support this piece of  legislation. Let's get H.R. 3898 passed out of the House and sent over  to the Senate.