Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694853/energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for  yielding me time and thank her for everything that she does to protect  the pocketbooks of American families.

Mr. Chairman, American families and small business owners deserve  lower electric bills, but Republicans in Congress are really sticking  it to folks with higher costs at every turn, especially in this  spending bill.

Mr. Chairman, Representative Kaptur is right. Household electric  costs and energy prices have risen 10 percent this year. In some  places, they have more than doubled, driven by Trump's tariffs; new  demand from Big Tech AI data centers; and expensive, old, polluting  plants.

Back home in Florida, Florida's largest utility has proposed the  largest utility rate hike in U.S. history, amounting to $10 billion,  that will raise Floridians' electric bills by hundreds of dollars every  month.

Mr. Chair, Republicans in Congress are now making it worse. Their  big, ugly bill, which was passed in July, already is projected to crush  working families with higher costs, and now their spending bill adds  insult to injury by slashing home improvement weatherization savings.

Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman for the  time.

Let's talk about how Republicans in Congress are making it worse,  harder for families to afford the cost of living, especially when it  comes to their electric bills. Their big, ugly bill, which was passed  in July, already is projected to crush working families with higher  costs.

Mr. Chair, this spending bill adds insult to injury by slashing home  improvement weatherization savings and taking a hatchet to cleaner,  cheaper energy and the important initiatives to modernize the grid.

If my colleagues care about helping their neighbors out of the  affordability squeeze, they will vote ``no'' on the Republican spending  bill.