Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial Equipment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688544/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-for-appliance-standards-certification-requirements-labeling-requirements-and-enforcement-provisions-for-certain-consumer-products-and-commercial-equipment


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.J. Res.  42.

This is the latest Republican bill to raise costs on American  families. In fact, Republicans in Congress have failed to bring any  bill over the past couple of months since this new Congress started to  help reduce the cost of living for our neighbors back home.

Meanwhile, the Trump administration's illegal shutdown of grants,  loans,  and partnership funds to our local communities and nonprofits; the  firing of public servants, like the inspector general at the Department  of Energy, whose job it is to root out waste, fraud, and abuse; the  firing of experts that oversee the nuclear enterprise and our nuclear  weapons; and tariffs, which are, in essence, new taxes on American  families and businesses, is really socking it to the pocketbooks of  American families and businessowners, except for billionaires like Elon  Musk, who stand to win big from the tax breaks for billionaires that  Republicans are moving through the House.

Let's talk about what is going on right now with all of this chaos  and confusion. The unemployment rate is up. Prices are up. If you  haven't checked your 401(k), that is down. All of this has a real-world  impact, and I really want to beseech my Republican colleagues to help  us end the madness. Find your spines to stand up to the chaos and  confusion that all of these illegal actions are having on our folks  back home. I mean, right now laying people off, public servants who  provide essential services, the illegal pause in funding--thank  goodness the United States Supreme Court just announced this morning  that they were turning back one of the illegal actions to, in essence,  rob money that has been congressionally mandated to fund essential  services.

It really is weighing on the entire economy. More importantly, people  back home want to know what the Congress is going to do about it, and  it is just silence from my friends on the other side of the aisle.

Let's talk about how ridiculous this is to target labeling on energy- efficient appliances, just plain information that you need to have when  you go shopping. Energy efficiency is very important to Americans. It  has been, as a matter of fact, for about 50 years. When the Congress  passed the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, we said to the  Department of Energy: Work with manufacturers and advocates and do  everything you can to help with innovation to help consumers save more  money.

That is really smart policy. One of the innocuous things that goes  along with it is the labeling so that customers understand what they  are buying. They need to know about how energy efficient an appliance  is and be able to comparison shop when they buy a dishwasher or some  other appliance.

Republicans, I just don't understand why you want to keep families  and businesses in the dark on this. It is a real head-scratcher until  you understand that polluters and big oil and gas companies have all  too much influence here on Capitol Hill.

Republicans keep sending these love letters to big oil and gas  companies. In fact, it was on Valentine's Day, February 14, when the  Trump administration announced it would halt cost savings for consumers  through energy-efficient coolers and freezers, clothes washers, and  air-conditioners. This labeling fiasco, I just don't understand why you  think it is important for families to have less information just when  they are trying to figure out what appliance to buy.

In contrast, the Democrats, over the past few years, have really been  focused on lowering the cost of living and passed very significant cost  savings for consumers. I am not talking about prescription drugs and  the cap on insulin. I am talking about energy-efficient appliances,  home energy tax credits, and rebates so that you can buy those energy- efficient appliances.

Right now, Floridians are waiting for about $350 million, which has  now been put on hold because of the illegal shutdown of a lot of funds  that are supposed to flow back home to the benefit of my neighbors.

I know that Republicans and polluters don't like energy efficiency,  but today's resolution does nothing to even get at energy efficiency.  In fact, it just creates more confusion. They are just talking about  the labels.

It creates confusion for businesses. It is confusing for  manufacturers. So many of them are grappling now with the twists and  turns of new taxes through tariffs on their products. This is going to  cost everyone money.

Americans are rightly asking why Republicans are wasting time  repealing this until this week. Until this week, I would hazard to  guess that most Members of Congress didn't even know that this was a  rule.

American families are also asking why Republicans are turning a blind  eye to their responsibility to look out for the pocketbooks of our  families and small business owners back home.

I think it is because the Republicans are scared. They are scared of  Elon Musk. They are scared to talk about the real problems facing  working families across the country: affordability, the escalating  costs of the overheating climate, what that is doing, higher insurance  costs, and higher electric bills because their summers are longer and  more intense. Back in the Tampa Bay area, we are trying to rebuild from  the most devastating hurricane season that we have ever experienced.

The changing climate isn't just about the weather. It is about your  wallets, and folks really need help. They need Republicans, in addition  to Democrats, looking out for them, not just lipservice about lowering  costs.

That is why it has been so disheartening to watch Elon Musk and the  new administration. They have no plan, no interest in addressing the  problems. Instead, they continue to double down on chaos and confusion.

Last night, we heard from the President. He continued his crusade of  endless lies. It was difficult to listen to. It was very long because  the President campaigned on reducing costs and making government more  efficient, and instead, all he has proposed is a major tax giveaway to  billionaires like Elon Musk, paid for by hardworking folks, children  who rely on Medicaid, our neighbors with disabilities, and our older  neighbors in skilled nursing, saying to Social Security recipients it  is going to be harder for you to get your payment because we are going  to slash the people who ensure that that happens, repealing affordable  healthcare, repealing these initiatives that lower your electric bills,  and other actions that make us less safe.

Congressional Republicans have a lot to say about today's resolution  and their war against energy-efficient appliances. As Elon Musk and his  lackeys really take a hammer--a chain saw, I guess--to what really  matters in this country, it is very difficult to try to work together  to say we are going to solve problems for the American people when one  side has no spine and no answer and instead brings these ridiculous  resolutions to the floor rather than working on really helping the  American people.

The only labels we should be talking about today are the lies  stickered across Trump's empty campaign promises. He continues these  misleading claims and lies to the American people, and Democrats are  not going to stand idly by while he loots the U.S. Government for his  own benefit. There has to be an end to the chaos and corruption, and it  needs to start right now.