Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Review of Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources As Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691593/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-review-of-final-rule-reclassification-of-major-sources-as-area-sources-under-section-112-of-the-clean-air-act


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Pallone  for yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, this is a dirty, pro-polluter resolution, so I rise in  strong opposition to S.J. Res. 31. It is going to increase hazardous  air pollution across America. It is going to expose more Americans to  cancer-causing toxins.

What is worse, it comes at a time when Republicans are ripping  healthcare away from at least 13.7 million Americans in their  billionaire boondoggle bill. In fact, Mr. Speaker, if you talk to folks  back home or in your townhalls, what they are talking about is the cost  of living.

It is amazing that this is the priority of the GOP at a time when  people are really being squeezed back home. Republicans have not  brought one bill to the floor to lower the cost of living and tackle  the everyday challenges of our neighbors back home. Instead, they are  consumed by this tax giveaway for billionaires.

This is the priority, to gut the Clean Air Act, to give polluting  industrial plants the right to pollute more, to pollute our air with  toxins that cause cancer, neurological damage, and death.

As a result of this Republican bill, we will see about 1,800  industrial facilities able to increase their pollution output.

Back home in Florida, we anticipate that will apply to 72 more  polluting facilities that will be allowed to escape regulation and emit  cancer-causing air pollution.

These are the major sources of hazardous air pollution, the large  industrial facilities like chemical plants, refineries, and pesticide  manufacturers. It is especially troubling because--and I think Mr.  Pallone would agree that this hasn't gotten a lot of play--in that  billionaire boondoggle bill, the big tax giveaway package that is  ruminating here in the Rules Committee right now, the American people  need to know what else was included in that bill.

The Energy and Commerce Committee Republicans included a pay-to-play  scheme to sell out the most vulnerable communities to the highest  bidder. This is in addition to gutting Medicaid and the Affordable Care  Act.

What they put in relating to their pay-to-play scheme would allow Big  Oil polluters to pay a one-time $1 million fee to the Department of  Energy to grease the skids to get polluting gas plants online faster.

Yes, we need more energy, but this comes at a time when they are, in  doing so, going to raise electric bills across the country because they  say it is only oil and gas. Forget about solar, wind, storage, all the  energy that is ready to come onto the grid.

It is another example of sacrificing the people's interests for the  special interests'. The special interests here are the chemical plants,  refineries, and pesticide manufacturers.

This is especially troubling, too, because, for decades, Congress has  recognized the clear health dangers of hazardous air pollutants from  these large-scale industrial polluting plants. We know they cause  cancer. We know they cause birth defects, developmental disorders, and  neurological problems, even at low levels of exposure.

While Americans struggle with the high cost of living and watch this  billionaire boondoggle bill try to get through the House, just know  what else is going on at the same time.

They are gutting the Clean Air Act, the bipartisan piece of  legislation that has stood us well for years and years. No Congress has  ever stripped away protections against toxic air pollution, and we  shouldn't start now.