Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator- Freezers''


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New  Jersey for yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.J. Res. 75, a bill to force  small business owners to use more energy and spend more money.

Here we are at the end of March, and Republicans have not brought one  bill to the floor to lower costs and tackle the cost of living for our  neighbors back home. Instead, Republicans in Congress have stood idly  by while American families and small business owners are left to twist  in the wind, making life harder for people back home, more expensive,  more difficult to receive the Social Security they rely on, adding  taxes through tariffs.

It is just unconscionable because what people really want is for us  to work together on solutions, and Republicans in Congress are missing  in action. People want answers, but Republicans won't have townhalls.  Some of them will not even answer the phone.

I also had a townhall back in St. Petersburg, Florida, last week when  I was home, and people want answers. They want to know what you are  doing to tackle the cost of living. Then, you come up here to the House  of Representatives, and Republicans are making it more expensive  because they don't want you to have an energy-efficient appliance.

This isn't something that happens overnight. This is something that  manufacturers and consumer advocates worked on for years.

The previous speaker asked when the Department of Energy got into  energy efficiency. It has been decades that they have been doing this,  trying to help people save money through conservation.

I know that doesn't align with my Republican colleagues' Big Oil and  Gas allies, but people want to save money. They want to cut pollution.  They don't want us wasting their time with inane bills like this that  are simply going to cost people more money.

It gets worse because Republicans in Congress are barreling toward a  massive tax giveaway to billionaires paid  for by targeting the family members we love the most: our parents who  rely on skilled nursing, children, pregnant women, and our neighbors  with disabilities.

We know what this is. This is an attempt to distract from what is  going on behind the scenes here in Washington, D.C. I have to say I  think my Republican friends are out of touch with working people.

People are tired of being ripped off by special interests and  politicians in Washington. This resolution is another example of that.  This makes it harder for small business owners to save money through  energy-efficient appliances. It essentially picks your pocket.

Mr. Speaker, have you ever been in a crowd where you are getting  jostled, and then you reach back and your wallet is gone? That is  exactly what is happening right here.

I hope that Republicans join Democrats in trying to reduce electric  bills, but no. I hope that Republicans are going to stand up to Elon  Musk as he takes a chain saw to Social Security, but no. Today, the  Republicans don't even want to address the real challenges facing our  neighbors, helping them with the cost of living, housing, healthcare,  and electric bills. This bill will simply make matters worse.

These DOE standards are long overdue. It has been, I think, at least  6 or 7 years since they have had an update. The law says you update  energy-efficient standards for appliances every few years. That is what  happened under the Biden administration. They came together. Those  kinds of standards also incentivize American innovation. Manufacturers  in America have been the leaders.

By weakening these rules, we open our markets to companies in  countries that manufacture low-efficiency products, like from China, at  the expense of American companies and American families. It is not  right.

I heard Mr. Pallone say that he had a townhall. A lot of the  Democrats are having townhalls. I had a townhall back in the Tampa Bay  area. They want help with hurricane recovery. Do you know what they are  having to replace right now? Appliances. They want an appliance that is  the most modern, the most efficient, the most affordable, and that is  made in America, and that is what these appliance standards do. They  help you save money over the long run.

They also want us to safeguard their healthcare. They want us to have  an eye on Elon Musk as he takes his chain saw to all sorts of agencies.

Social Security was a topic of conversation in my townhall. Lo and  behold, yesterday, there was a press report about the backdoor cuts to  Social Security. It says: ``The Social Security Administration website  crashed four times in 10 days this month because the servers were  overloaded, blocking millions of retirees and disabled Americans from  logging in to their online accounts. In the field, office managers have  resorted to answering phones in place of receptionists because so many  employees have been pushed out. Amid all this, the agency no longer has  a system to monitor customer experience because that office was  eliminated . . . by Elon Musk. And the phones keep ringing. And  ringing.''

``The turmoil is leaving many retirees, disabled claimants, and legal  immigrants needing Social Security cards with less access or shut out  of the system altogether.''

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the article titled: ``Long  waits, waves of calls, website crisis: Social Security is breaking  down.''      Long Waits, Waves of Calls, Website Crashes: Social Security is                               Breaking Down             (By Lisa Rein and Hannah Natanson, Mar. 25, 2025)

A flood of cuts led by Elon Musk has sent the agency into       chaos as a new commissioner prepares to take charge.

The Social Security Administration website crashed four       times in 10 days this month because the servers were       overloaded, blocking millions of retirees and disabled       Americans from logging in to their online accounts. In the       field, office managers have resorted to answering phones in       place of receptionists because so many employees have been       pushed out. Amid all this, the agency no longer has a system       to monitor customer experience because that office was       eliminated as part of the cost-cutting efforts led by Elon       Musk.

And the phones keep ringing. And ringing.

The federal agency that delivers $1.5 trillion a year in       earned benefits to 73 million retired workers, their       survivors, and poor and disabled Americans is engulfed in       crisis--further undermining the already struggling       organization's ability to provide reliable and quick service       to vulnerable customers, according to internal documents and       more than two dozen current and former agency employees and       officials, customers and others who interact with Social       Security.

Financial services executive Frank Bisignano is scheduled       to face lawmakers Tuesday at a Senate confirmation hearing as       President Donald Trump's nominee to become the permanent       commissioner. For now, the agency is run by a caretaker       leader in his sixth week on the job who has raced to push out       more than 12 percent of the staff of 57,000. He has conceded       that the agency's phone service ``sucks'' and acknowledged       that Musk's U.S. DOGE Service is really in charge, pushing a       single-minded mission to find benefits fraud despite vast       evidence that the problem is overstated. The turmoil is       leaving many retirees, disabled claimants, and legal       immigrants needing Social Security cards with less access or       shut out of the system altogether, according to those       familiar with the problems.

``What's going on is the destruction of the agency from the       inside out, and it's accelerating,'' Sen. Angus King (I-      Maine) said in an interview. ``I have people approaching me       all the time in their 70s and 80s, and they're beside       themselves. They don't know what's coming.''

King's home state has the country's oldest population.       ``What they're doing now is unconscionable,'' he said.

Leland Dudek, who became acting commissioner after he fed       data to Musk's team behind his bosses' backs, has issued a       series of rapid-fire policy changes that have created chaos       for front-line staff. Under pressure from the secretive Musk       team, Dudek has pushed out dozens of officials with years of       expertise in running Social Security's complex benefit and       information technology systems. Others have left in disgust.

The moves have upended an agency that, despite the       popularity of its programs, has been underfunded for years,       faces potential insolvency in a decade and has been led by       four commissioners in five months--just one of them Senate-      confirmed. The latest controversy came last week when Dudek       threatened to shut down operations in response to a federal       judge's ruling against DOGE that he claimed would leave no       one in the agency with access to beneficiaries' personal       information.

Alarmed lawmakers are straining to answer questions back       home from angry constituents. Calls have flooded into       congressional offices. AARP announced Monday that more than       2,000 people a week have called the retiree organization       since early February--double the usual number--with concerns       about whether benefits they paid for during their working       careers will continue. Social Security is the primary source       of income for about 40 percent of older Americans.

Trump has said repeatedly that the administration ``won't       touch'' Social Security, a promise that aides say applies to       benefit levels that can be adjusted only by Congress. But in       just six weeks, the cuts to staffing and offices have already       taken a toll on access to benefits, officials and advocates       say.                              `creating a fire'

With aging technology systems and a $15 billion budget that       has stayed relatively flat over a decade, Social Security was       already struggling to serve the public amid an explosion of       retiring baby boomers. The staff that reviews claims for two       disability programs was on life support following massive       pandemic turnover--and still takes 233 days on average to       review an initial claim.

But current and former officials, advocates and others who       interact with the agency--many of whom spoke on the condition       of anonymity for fear of retribution--said Social Security       has been damaged even further by the rapid cuts and chaos of       Trump's first two months in office. Many current and former       officials fear the push is part of a long-sought effort by       conservatives to privatize all or part of the agency.

``They're creating a fire to require them to come and put       it out,'' said one high-ranking official who took early       retirement this month.

Dudek, who was elevated from a mid-level data analyst in       the anti-fraud office, hurried to cut costs when he took over       in mid-February, canceling research contracts, offering       early-retirement incentives and buyouts across the agency,       and consolidating programs and regional offices. Entire       offices, including those handling civil rights and       modernization, were driven out. The 10 regional offices that       oversee field operations were slashed to four.

``I do not want to destroy the agency,'' he said in an       interview Monday. ``The president wants it to succeed by       cutting out the red tape to improve service while improving       security.''

Musk's Department of Government Efficiency team began       poring through Social Security's massive trove of private       data on millions of Americans, working in a fourth-floor       conference room at the Woodlawn, Maryland, headquarters, with       blackout curtains on the windows and an armed security guard       posted outside.

At first, the DOGE team was obsessed by false claims that       millions of deceased people were receiving benefits. Then       came new       mandates designed to address alleged fraud: Direct-deposit       transactions and identity authentication, operations that       affect almost everyone receiving benefits, will no longer be       able to be done by phone. Customers with computers will go       through the process online; those without will wait in line       at their local field office. A change announced internally       last week will require legal immigrants with authorization to       work in the United States and newly naturalized citizens to       apply for or update their Social Security cards in person,       eliminating a long-standing practice that sent the cards       automatically through the mail.

``We realize this is a significant change and there will be       a significant impact to customers,'' Doris Diaz, deputy       commissioner of operations, told the field staff Monday       during a briefing on the changes, a recording of which was       obtained by The Washington Post. She said the agency was       ``working on a process'' for homeless and homebound customers       who cannot use computers or come into an office--and       acknowledged that service levels will decline.

In the weeks before that briefing, phone calls to Social       Security surged--with questions from anxious customers       wondering whether their benefits had been or would be cut and       desperate to get an in-person field office appointment. That       is, if they could get through to a live person.

Depending on the time of day, a recorded message tells       callers their wait on hold will last more than 120 minutes or       180 minutes. Some callers report being on hold for four or       five hours. A callback function was available only three out       of 12 times a Post reporter called the toll-free line last       week, presumably because the queue that day was so long that       the call would not be returned by close of business.

The recording that 66-year-old Kathy Martinez heard when       she called the toll-free number two weeks ago from the San       Francisco Bay Area said her hold time would be more than       three hours--she was calling to ask what her retirement       benefits would come to if she filed for them now or waited       until she turned 70. She hung up and tried again last week at       7 a.m. Pacific time. The wait was more than 120 minutes, but       she was offered a callback option, and in two hours she spoke       with a ``phenomenally kind person who called me,'' she said.

Martinez said she wants to wait to file for benefits to       maximize her check. But ``I'm kind of thinking, I wonder if I       should take it now. When I apply, I will do it over the       phone. But will there still be a phone system?''                               `not acceptable'

Aging, inefficient phone systems have dogged Social       Security for years. A modernization contract with Verizon       begun under the first Trump administration suffered multiple       delays, system crashes and other problems. As commissioner in       the last year of the Biden administration, former Maryland       governor Martin O'Malley moved the project to a new       contractor, Amazon Web Services, and data shows that the       average wait time for the toll-free line was down to 50       minutes, half of today's average. But O'Malley ran out of       time to switch the new system to field office phones, he       said.

Now a perfect storm has overtaken the system. Turnover       that's normally higher than 10 percent has worsened at the 24       call centers across the country. Some employees took early       retirement and buyout offers--a number that Dudek said was       ``not huge'' but that current and former officials estimate       could be significant.

Shonda Johnson, a vice president at the American Federation       of Government Employees Council 220 who represents 5,000 call       center staffers, said low pay (starting salary is $32,000 a       year), anger at a return-to-office mandate after years of       telework, rapid policy changes, and frustration with how the       Trump administration is treating federal employees have hurt       morale to the point that people aren't giving their all to       the job.

``When you're facing threats yourself, it kind of prevents       you from being totally there for the public you're       servicing,'' she said.

Asked about worsening phone service, Dudek told reporters       in a call last week that ``a 24 percent answer rate is not       acceptable.''

``I want people who want to get to a person to get to a       person,'' he said, adding that ``all options are on the       table'' to improve phone service, including outsourcing some       call center work.

The new limits on phone transactions take effect at the end       of the month, but field offices have been deluged for weeks,       even as DOGE is targeting an unspecified number of field and       hearing offices for closure over the next three years.

In one office in central Indiana, the phone lines are       jammed by 9 a.m. with hundreds of retirees, further taxing a       staff of less than a dozen that is responsible for nearly       70,000 claimants across the state, according to one employee.       That worker, who like others spoke on the condition of       anonymity for fear of retribution, said the questions have       become predictable: What is the U.S. DOGE Service doing to       Social Security? Will the office close? Will my benefits       continue?

The employees, with no training yet on the impending       changes, have few answers. ``I hope we're going to be here,''       the employee tells caller after caller. ``But I can't       guarantee anything.''

Complicated benefits cases are falling by the wayside, the       employee said. Online claims, which are completed by field       staff, are piling up.

``There is just no time to breathe or get anything else       done,'' she said. ``We used to be efficient.''

Another employee in a regional office said the staff was       told at a recent briefing that field offices across the       country are seeing ``exponential growth'' in foot traffic.       The elderly are not only calling but showing up at bricks-      and-mortar buildings to ask about the DOGE-led changes.

In one Philadelphia office, the federal government's       return-to-office edict has left 1,200 staffers competing for       about 300 parking spots, according to an employee. Staffers       wake up as early as 4:30 a.m. to try to snag a space, and       some are buying backup spots for $200 a month nearby. As       morale has cratered, some employees have stopped wearing       business clothes and now come to work in jeans and a T-shirt       because, as they tell colleagues, they no longer take pride       in their work, the employee said.                               `OFF THE CHARTS'

Scammers are already taking advantage of the chaotic       moment, according to internal emails obtained by The Post.       Last week, employees in several offices were warned that       seniors were reporting receiving emails from accounts       pretending to be linked to Social Security. The messages       asked recipients to verify their identity to keep receiving       benefits.

``Sounds like scammers are jumping on this press release to       trick the elderly,'' one Social Security staffer wrote to       colleagues Thursday, referring to the agency's announcement       of the in-person verification program.

In Baltimore, an employee who works on critical payment       systems said nearly a quarter of his team is already gone or       will soon be out the door as a result of resignations and       retirements. Talented software developers and analysts were       quick to secure high-paying jobs in the private sector, he       said--and the reduction in highly skilled staff is already       having consequences.

His office is supposed to complete several software updates       and modernization processes required by law within the next       few weeks and months, he said. But with the departures, it       seems increasingly likely that it will miss those deadlines.

His team is also called on to fix complicated technology       glitches that stop payments. But many of the experts who make       those fixes are exiting.

``That has to get cleaned up on a case-by-case basis, and       the experts in how to do that are leaving,'' the Baltimore       employee said. ``We will have cases that get stuck, and       they're not going to be able to get fixed. People could be       out of benefits for months.''

Meanwhile, a DOGE-imposed spending freeze has left many       field offices without paper, pens and phone headsets--at the       exact moment phone calls are spiking, the employee in Indiana       said.

The freeze drove all federal credit cards to a $1 1imit,       and purchasers for the agency were reduced to about a dozen       people for 1,300 offices, said one employee in the Northeast.

These purchasers must get a green light from higher-ups for       anything other than 12 specific preapproved transactions,       according to emails obtained by The Post. The list includes       ``shipping costs,'' ``phone bills,'' ``Legionella testing''       and ``services to support fire safety and emergency       response.'' It does not include basic office supplies.

The field office in Portland, Oregon, is so slammed that       the claims staff has told advocates to send questions or       information by fax because they can't get to the phones,       according to Chase Stowell, case management supervisor for       Assist, a nonprofit that helps disabled people apply for       benefits. Many of them are homeless.

``The attrition rates in Portland are off the charts,''       Stowell said. ``They just don't pick up the phone. They were       already short-staffed. They've told us they just don't trust       that there's a reliable system to get ahold of them by       voicemail.''

The service issues keep bubbling up to members of Congress.       Hundreds of Maryland residents turned out for a town hall       meeting last week hosted by Baltimore County Council member       Pat Young about a mile from Social Security headquarters.

Asked by one retiree in the audience to provide ``a little       bit of hope'' that his Social Security benefits would not be       cut, Sen. Angela Alsobrooks (D-Maryland) conceded, ``The       truth of the matter is that we don't know what they intend.''

Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, this is a real cry for help, and  we need Republicans and Congress focused on Americans' pocketbooks, not  trying to distract from the massive tax giveaway to billionaires and  special interests.

Mr. Pallone is absolutely right. They are out of touch. Let's send a  message and vote ``no'' on this bill and get back to work on  safeguarding the pocketbooks of our neighbors back home.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote.