Reliable Power Act


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Pallone  for yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3616. It is another  Republican bill that fails to address skyrocketing electric bills that  are a part of the overall affordability squeeze that is gripping the  country right now.

What should we be doing on the floor of the House right now?

We should bring up the discharge petition to make sure that  healthcare costs don't skyrocket for 20 million Americans and 4.7  million Floridians back home in the Sunshine State.

Now that the discharge petition has the necessary number of votes to  come to the floor and extend those lifesaving and cost-saving ACA tax  credits, we should be doing that instead. That would have a real  impact. That would send a great sign to folks back home who are  struggling with the rising cost of living and are wondering how they  will pay for their health coverage next year. That would really help  our neighbors back home. Alas, we are not doing that.

At a time when prices are up, inflation is up, and despite the  Republican promises to do something about it, all of their bills and  their policies are making it worse and making life even more expensive.  Household electricity prices are up across America by about 13 percent  and a lot higher in some places.

Why is that the case? First of all, the big, ugly bill that  Republicans passed in July to provide tax breaks to the wealthy and  well-connected took away tax credits to keep cleaner, cheaper energy  producing across America. They ripped away rebates for households to  help them afford the cost of upgrading their homes, making their lives  more energy efficient.

Also, these arbitrary Trump tariffs are at the highest levels since  the 1930s. We see it in our grocery bills, but it is also impacting  electricity costs. Costs are way up for poles and wires and things that  we import for our electricity systems. Those are being passed along to  consumers.

The Trump administration has canceled hundreds of projects across  America, some that were permitted and approved, ready to bring cleaner  and cheaper energy onto the grid to help keep electricity prices lower.  All of that is a recipe for skyrocketing electricity bills.

What do Republicans in Congress do? They keep bringing these random  bills to the floor to boost the profits of polluters. This bill is a  good example of that.

This bill would elevate the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  above any other Federal agency, give it unprecedented veto power, and  transform it and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation  into political actors. That is a world away from the independent  agencies that they are now where they act in the public interest and  not in the interest of polluters.

Mr. Speaker, FERC doesn't even want this power. They lack the  capacity and the staff for this highly technical work.

When we discussed this bill 2 years ago, David Ortiz, then FERC's  Director of the Office of Electric Reliability, testified before the  Energy and Commerce Committee that FERC couldn't execute on the bill  because FERC does not have the capacity to assume other agencies'  expertise. That was before FERC lost 11 percent of its staff-- hardworking public servants--due to resignations and layoffs under the  Trump administration.

This bill doesn't do anything to provide FERC with the staff or  funding they would need to implement the bill. No, it doesn't.  Polluters simply want to short-circuit any oversight of their higher  costs and pollution. That is what this is about.

FERC already has the power to intervene and comment on agency  rulemaking dockets if they think there could be a reliability issue, as  does NERC, as does any of the grid operators, and any utility. This  polluter-friendly bill is a way to sabotage cleaner and cheaper energy,  however, and energy storage. It is a recipe for higher costs and  electric bills for American families.

Regional grid operators have the necessary expertise and staffing to  maintain reliability on their grids already. Regional operators know  that there are cheaper, cleaner, and more reliable energy sources  available, not just expensive coal and gas.

There are modern grid solutions that the committee has refused to  take up this year. That is another reason electric bills are so high.  There are solutions like energy storage, demand response, grid- enhancing technologies, and regional and interregional coordination  that can provide reliability at a lower price with less pollution.

Republicans also don't want us to know that, while this bill gives  FERC more responsibilities that it cannot meet and does not want, the  Trump administration has been busy gutting the agencies that are  already working to ensure that we have a reliable grid.

For example, the Trump Department of Energy eliminated the Grid  Deployment Office last month. That was an office created under the  bipartisan infrastructure law to manage important and cost-saving  investments to make our grid more reliable. Over $3 billion in grid  deployment investments were cut in October.

The real Republican mantra should be a less reliable grid with higher  costs because that is what this year has produced. Republican energy  policy is creating a less reliable environment for businesses, making  it harder for companies to invest in America.

Just yesterday, Ford announced they were laying off all 1,600  employees at their battery manufacturing plant in Glendale, Kentucky.  In October, on top of the grid modernization cuts at the Department of  Energy, DOE canceled 321 awards, totaling $8 billion in funding. The  largest award was $316 million to support the manufacture of components  from recycled EV batteries in Kentucky. That would have helped us  compete with Chinese batteries.

Mr. Speaker, $197 million was supposed to help a plant in St. Louis  producing 30,000 metric tons annually of critical minerals products.  Mr. Speaker, $117 million was intended to support production of  synthetic graphite, including construction of a large plant in Alabama.  Also, $31 million was cut that was going to build an advanced glass  factory at the site of an old coal plant in Detroit.

As a result, the United States will have less capacity to support  real and reliable power. This bill does not solve problems. It doesn't  tackle the affordability crisis. It makes it worse. It doesn't even  support more reliable power. Republicans are just trying to slap a new  permitting reform label on bad ideas that they have never been able to  pass into law.

Here we are, the last week in session this year, Mr. Speaker, and  Republicans have not brought a single bill to the floor of the House  that would lower costs for hardworking families. They have no new ideas  here. They have no ideas on how to make energy more affordable for  everyday Americans and no ideas to help us out of this healthcare  crisis.

Mr. Speaker, people really deserve better. They deserve better over  the holidays, and they deserve better from this Congress. I urge my  colleagues to vote against the bill.