State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697883/state-planning-for-reliability-and-affordability-act


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Madam Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Pallone  for yielding the time.

Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3628. I think we all know  that our neighbors are really struggling with higher electric bills.  They are really grappling with how to pay these higher costs.

Household electricity prices across America are up by 13 percent this  year--17 percent in North Carolina and 15 percent in the State of  Georgia. Folks really are at their wits' end because it is all coming  down at once.

In Florida, the three largest investor-owned utilities have requested  $34 billion in price hikes this year. Last month, the DeSantis- appointed utility commission approved a $7 billion rate hike for  Florida Power & Light customers. FPL customers will be paying much more  over the next few years.

In Tampa, I was with some neighbors who were burning their electric  bills, throwing them into a garbage can, lighting them on fire because  they are struggling to keep the lights on. If you are a TECO customer,  you are going to be paying about $939 more annually than you were 5  years ago.

Madam Speaker, folks back home are really wondering: Can Congress get  its act together to help lower the cost of living and work on  solutions? I hate to report that, no, Republicans in Congress and the  Trump administration have shown no interest in doing that or in  tackling lower electric bills. In fact, they are making it worse.

Electric bills are going up for a number of reasons. Let's talk about  it.

There is the big, ugly bill that Republicans passed in July. That is  projected to raise electricity rates by 61 percent. Why? They took away  a lot of the tax credits to speed cheaper energy onto the grid. They  ripped away rebates to help consumers save money on their electric  bills. They canceled a lot of jobs that were helping people pay the  bills.

Then when we add on the arbitrary tariffs of the Trump  administration, that has a significant cost. Projections are that the  average household is going to pay about $1,600 more per year. Some  estimates are up to about $2,000 a year. That is, yes, on our coffee  and groceries and consumer goods. It is also impacting electric bills.  We do import poles and wires and energy, and that is raising electric  bills, too.

The Trump administration has also canceled billions of dollars' worth  of cheaper, cleaner energy projects and solar projects in every State.  No one has been immune to this. That has also fed into skyrocketing  electric bills. All of this adds up.

We are looking at a healthcare cliff in just another couple of weeks.  Congress has only one more week to act to reinstitute the ACA tax  credits. That is 4.5 million Floridians who will face higher healthcare  bills, in addition to what they are doing to higher electric bills and  our groceries. I would say to American families that they deserve so  much better than they are getting here.

This bill, H.R. 3628, amends the Public Utility Regulatory Policies  Act to four States to favor more expensive, dirty energy over cleaner,  cheaper energy. It is a ridiculous requirement that they want to add,  and it directly conflicts with the provisions in the law right now that  require States to maintain a diverse portfolio of electricity and  engage in prudent resource planning.

Who loves this? Oil and gas companies love it. Investor-owned  utilities love it. They will profit at the expense of hardworking  Americans. Energy generated by wind, solar, and stored in batteries is  often cheaper. It should make up a substantial portion of our  electricity portfolio.

Madam Speaker, we need to lower electric bills by speeding cleaner  and cheaper energy to the grid, especially to meet rising demand, and  to do it while we protect clean air and clean water. America cannot  afford to turn its back on half of all of the new electricity that is  poised to come onto the grid over the next 5 years.

We need a modern transmission system and a modern electric grid. We  need to speed up clean energy and not throw a wrench in it and make  people pay more back home. They are already paying too much.