Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of 2025


Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R.  1949. It is a harmful bill that demonstrates how Republicans in  Congress continue to ignore the rising cost of living and inflation  that is crushing American families and that they are willing to sell  out American energy to our adversaries like the Chinese Community  Party.

I know it wasn't even 2 weeks ago that President Trump said: I don't  want to talk about affordability.

Well, we are going to talk about it, and we are going to stand up for  people's pocketbooks at home.

This bill is just another example of how Republicans have not brought  one single bill to the House floor that would lower energy costs for  hardworking families.

Electricity bills are skyrocketing. It is getting harder and harder  for people to pay their utility bills. Now Republicans and the Trump  administration are making it worse. They have passed the big, ugly bill  to rip away savings and rebates for cleaner, cheaper energy a few  months ago and energy efficiency that keeps bills lower, all to pay for  tax breaks for the wealthy and the well-connected.

Now they want to ramp up gas exports that will make life even more  expensive. It wasn't even 1 year ago that the Department of Energy  released its study that made it clear, continuing to approve gas  exports would raise costs on U.S. households and businesses.

Don't just take it from me, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from the Industrial  Energy Consumers of America dated November 17, 2025.                                        Industrial Energy Consumers                                                      of America,                                  Washington, DC, November 17, 2025.      Re H.R. 1949 the ``Unlocking our Domestic LNG Potential Act           of 2025'' is Inconsistent with President Trump's Pledge           to Put America First       Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker of the House, House of Representatives, Washington,           DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader, House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Leaders Johnson and Jeffries: The Industrial Energy       Consumers of America do not oppose LNG exports. We do oppose       H.R. 1949, the ``Unlocking our Domestic LNG Potential Act of       2025'' because the bill prioritizes LNG exports over U.S.       consumers by removing long standing Natural Gas Act consumer       protections embedded in Section 3 of the Natural Gas Act       (NGA). H.R. 1949 is inconsistent with President Trump's       ``America First'' agenda. LNG exports are forecasted to       increase 136 percent in the next five years (see Figure 1)       and natural gas producers say they will struggle to meet LNG       growth demand.

Prices are already increasing. The November 13, 2025 Wall       Street Journal story ``Natural Gas Prices Hit Highest Level       Since Invasion of Ukraine'' reported that natural gas prices       reached their highest levels since December 2022, with       December futures settling Thursday at $4.646 per million       British thermal units, up 67 percent from a year ago. For       every one dollar increase in the Henry Hub natural gas price,       consumers pay on average $34 billion more for natural gas and       $20 billion more for electricity, or $54 billion annually.       One hundred percent of our member companies are from the       manufacturing sector and are price sensitive.

The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) has already approved a       significant volume equal to 48 Bcf/d for shipment to non-free       trade agreement (NFTA) countries, which equals 49 percent of       2024 net supply. Why then is it in the public interest for       Congress to remove consumer protections? This is not a       national security issue. What is approved is far more than       enough to supply our allies.

When Congress passed the NGA several years ago, it       initiated an ``America First'' energy regulation. Congress,       in their wisdom, understood that natural gas is essential to       the economy and that U.S. consumers do not have an       alternative, which makes them vulnerable. Section 3 of the       NGA requires that exports to NFTA must not be inconsistent       with the public interest. About 80 percent of U.S. LNG is       shipped to NFTA countries. The public interest includes       impacts to prices of natural gas and reliability. Section 3       gives DOE wide latitude to protect U.S. consumers now and in       the future as larger amounts are exported.

H.R. 1949 removes Section 3 and the protection that it       affords. The bill removes DOE's authority and responsibility       to consider the public interest when considering approval of       new LNG exports volumes to NFTA countries.

LNG exports do have the ability to impact domestic prices.       U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) data proves that       LNG export volumes are highest during our winter peak heating       season months of November through March, which accelerates a       reduction in U.S. inventory, increasing the prices of U.S.       natural gas and electricity and reducing reliability. The       severity of the problem increases as export capacity       increases (see Figure 2).

Unlike manufacturing companies, LNG customers are countries       who are insensitive to price and will pay any price to keep       the lights on in their country. No matter how high U.S.       prices will go, they will buy away U.S. natural gas even when       our winter inventories fall and prices rise. The LNG 20-year       contracts shift supply and price risk from LNG buying       countries to U.S. consumers and the economy.

For all of the above reasons, we urge you to oppose H.R.       1949 and preserve consumer protections.            Sincerely,                                                     Paul N. Cicio,                                                   President & CEO.

Ms. CASTOR of Florida. They say this bill is inconsistent with the  President's pledge to put America first, and it prioritizes gas exports  over U.S. consumers by removing longstanding consumer protections. They  urge everyone to oppose this bill and preserve those consumer  protections.

Mr. Speaker, when you export more gas, that raises domestic gas  prices, electricity prices, and the cost of manufactured goods. A vote  for this bill is a vote to raise utility bills. That is particularly  problematic to the neighbors back home I represent in the State of  Florida. The State of Florida, the Sunshine State, you would think  would be powered by the sun, Mr. Speaker, but we are 75 percent reliant  on gas to generate electricity.

Now, Mr. Speaker, you are saying: Okay, Floridians, you are already  being crushed by utility bills, and now Republicans are going to make  it worse.

It is raising costs on all of us in more insidious ways too because  we do have a climate crisis across the world. Mr. Speaker, when you are  paying more to  address climate-fueled disasters caused by hurricanes, such as  repairing your home, emergency response, and property insurance, then  that is an additional cost.

Given that large methane and carbon dioxide emissions are emitted  during fracking, pipeline transport, liquefaction, overseas shipping,  and combustion, costs go up, and so do pollution and health risks,  especially along the Gulf Coast.

Now, let's talk about point number two. Mr. Speaker, if higher costs  in electric bills are not going to convince you to vote against this  bill, then I hope that America's national security will. Republicans  and the gas industry and their lobbyists want carte blanche to export  gas to anyone, even our foreign adversaries.

Now, under current law, the U.S. Department of Energy is responsible  for authorizing exports of domestically produced gas to foreign  countries. In doing so, DOE makes a determination whether or not that  export is consistent with the public interest. Republicans and the  industry want to eliminate that important review, that even if the gas  goes to the Chinese Communist Party and other foreign adversaries that  is okay, there is no need to look and no need to review that. That is  wrong and dangerous.

Aren't Republicans in Congress concerned that shipping American  energy overseas to China to power their AI data centers and their  manufacturing is a risk, an economic risk, and a military risk?

I also serve on the House Select Committee on the Strategic  Competition Between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party.  On that committee, we have heard over and over about the dangers of  Chinese industrial dominance. They want to just kind of sweep up all  natural resources across the globe for their economic and military  advantage.

Why would Republicans in Congress be party to that?

Through this bill, House Republicans want to make it easier for China  to import U.S. energy to power their industrial and military sectors.

Republicans have also enacted policies that wave a white flag to  China on cleaner and cheaper energy, on electric vehicles, and on the  next generation of energy manufacturing and technology, all evidenced  by what they have done in gutting clean energy tax credits in  manufacturing, in jobs, and in cost savings in their big, ugly bill.

Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Plus, it is hypocritical for Republicans to  condemn Chinese forced labor, subsidies, and intellectual property  theft on the one hand and then allow massive amounts of U.S. resources  to flow to Chinese factories on the other hand.

These are not hypothetical concerns. In June, the President posted  that hopefully China will be purchasing plenty of oil from the U.S.

Then, after meeting with President Xi in October, the President said  that a very large-scale transaction may take place concerning the  purchase of oil and gas from the great State of Alaska.

This is all too much. If these projects come online, then U.S. LNG  would represent up to one-quarter of all of China's contracted LNG  under the contracts that have already been entered into.

I urge my colleagues now to do the patriotic thing. Really, go ahead,  and put America first for a change.

It is vitally important that energy export decisions benefit the  American people, not our foreign adversaries. Exporting more LNG  without guardrails does nothing to lower energy bills for hardworking  families. In fact, it will make it worse, and people deserve better.