-9999


Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to talk  about one of the greatest threats facing our country today: Islamic  extremism.

You know, 24 years ago, September 11, 2001, nearly 3,000 innocent  Americans were murdered in a coordinated terroristic attack carried out  by radical Islamic extremists. Those of us who lived through that day  remember exactly where we were when those planes hit the buildings.  That day changed this country forever.

We were smacked in the face with the reality that there are people  who are so hell-bent on destroying America that they will kill  themselves just to try to harm us. That is reality. It sends shivers  down your spine, but it is true, and it happened.

In the aftermath of 9/11, we created the Department of Homeland  Security. Basically, we went to war. We spent the following two decades  unsuccessfully attempting to westernize the Middle Eastern countries  most responsible for this attack. We strengthened surveillance and gave  up personal freedoms in the hope of preventing another large-scale  attack.

But 20 years later, we have to ask: Have we made any progress at all  in rooting the evil of radical Islam out of this country? Have we done  it?

Let's be honest. Radical Islamic terrorism didn't go away after 2001.

In 2009, 13 people were killed in a mass shooting at Fort Hood by an  Army psychiatrist who was radicalized by Islamic teachings.

In 2013, three were killed and hundreds injured when two brothers  detonated bombs at the finish line of the Boston Marathon. They were  inspired by their radical Islamic beliefs.

Then, in 2015, an ISIS-inspired couple killed 14 people and injured  22 at a party in Southern California.

In 2016, Omar Mateen killed 49 people and injured 53 more at a  nightclub in Orlando, FL. Mateen pledged allegiance to ISIS during this  attack.

It continued in 2019, when a Saudi military trainee opened fire at  the Pensacola Naval Air Station, killing three Americans, including one  young man from my home State of Alabama.

Earlier this year in Louisiana, a deranged person drove a truck into  a crowd on Bourbon Street in New Orleans, killing 14 people. To no  one's surprise, he said he was ``inspired'' by the Islamic State.

These attacks, they weren't just against people, they were an all-out  assault on Western culture, freedom, and the values that we hold dear  to our heart. But it doesn't stop there.

Thanks to Joe Biden, thousands of people on the suspected Terror  Watchlist were allowed to enter this country over the past 4 years.  Islamic extremism and Sharia Law openly call for the destruction of  America and Western culture.

Let's be clear about this: The thousands of terrorists we have  allowed to enter our country have brought their anti-American rhetoric  and ideology with them. We are seeing this in cities like Minneapolis,  Dearborn, Portland, Chicago, and even New York City.

You know, the leading candidate for mayor of New York City is a far- left socialist who sympathizes with extremist groups like Hamas.

But this insanity sadly isn't limited to New York. We have elected  Members of Congress who openly support the radical Islamic terrorist  organization Hamas.

Just yesterday, we paused to remember the more than 1,200 innocent  people, including 40 Americans--40 Americans--who were slaughtered by  Hamas terrorists in Israel on October 7, 2023.

Hamas literally means ``Islamic Resistance Movement.'' It has been 2  years, and two U.S. Congresswomen, Omar and Tlaib, they still refuse to  condemn these heinous crimes in Israel. These two Members were elected  to represent American citizens, and they are sympathizing with Islamic  terrorists instead. It is almost hard to believe, but it is true. And  they don't hide it.

You know, we are allowing people with extremist ideologies, people  who hate American values, to not only live here but to hold positions  of power and influence in our government. It is un-American, and it is  an insult to the millions of Americans who have sacrificed their lives  for this country and its freedom.

You know, if you think this poisonous ideology won't affect your way  of life, just look at Europe. The United Kingdom, once a proud nation  that helped save the world from Nazi tyranny, has essentially lost its  identity. It is gone.

Mass migration has destroyed their society. There is no freedom of  speech; crime is through the roof; and openly Anti-Semitic, pro-Hamas  riots have become a regular occurrence. This is in Europe; this is the  UK.

The UK Prime Minister, Keir Starmer, recently appointed a person with  extreme pro-Palestinian views as Home Secretary. In the UK, the Home  Secretary is in charge of protecting national security, ensuring law  and order, and overseeing immigration. What a surprise.

So the person who is in charge of immigration and national security  is openly a pro-terrorist. If we aren't careful, the United States will  look like Europe in 10 years or less. It is coming.

We can't bury our heads in the sand about this any longer. The Quran  openly calls for violence against non-Muslims--openly. Radical  Islamists take these instructions literally and use them to justify  terror.

It is not politically correct to say this, but it is the damn truth,  something you won't hear from the deranged leftists who run cover for  Islamic extremism is about the inhumane and disgusting ways that they  treat women.

In Muslim countries that follow Sharia law, it is considered normal  for women to be raped, trafficked, and forced to marry as young as the  age of 6. Pedophilia is rampant, and women are lucky if they are  allowed to drive.

I am old enough to remember when Democrats championed the #MeToo  movement, which was self-described as a ``global, survivor-led movement  to end sexual violence.''

But these same Democrats who championed the #MeToo movement have been  radio silent when it comes to the way women are regularly treated in  countries that practice radical Islam. I have yet to hear my Democrat  colleagues who are siding with Hamas talk about the brutal ways Hamas  has abused the women they have held hostage since October 7, nor have I  heard Democrats who claim to be feminists talk about the fact that some  Muslim countries that practice Sharia law require women to be  completely covered from head to toe.

These women, they are not allowed to get an education, work a job,  or, in some cases, even leave home. They are barred from gyms, parks,  and beauty salons. They are forbidden from traveling without a male  relative and forced to wear certain covering that covers everything but  their eyes.

But meanwhile, the men in these countries are allowed to abuse women,  have sex with children, or have multiple wives--no problem. Everyone,  but especially feminist groups, should be outraged about this horrible  abuse of women, but that doesn't fit the left's narrative. So you won't  hear a peep from liberal so-called feminists about the disgusting  treatment of women in radical Islamic countries.

You also won't hear from Democrats about how radical Islamic  terrorists are currently carrying out a mass genocide of Christians in  Nigeria. Think about this, more than 62,000 Christians have been  slaughtered since 2000 by radical Islamic terrorists in Nigeria. You  heard that right, 62,000.

In just this year alone, more than 7,000 Nigerian Christians have  been murdered because of their faith alone.

You can't turn on the TV without hearing about Israel's so-called  mass genocide of Palestinians--every day. Yet, when it comes to 62,000  Christians being slaughtered by radical Muslims, it is radio silence.  This extreme ideology is straight from the pit of Hell, and it has no  place in American society.

We are blessed that freedom of worship is a constitutionally  guaranteed right in this country. That is what our forefathers fought  for. If you want to come here legally, practice a peaceful version of  Islam, and blend into our society life by adopting the treasured values  of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, you are welcome to do  so.

But if you believe that Sharia law supersedes American law, you  should be  deported immediately. If we don't take a stand now, our way of life,  our Christian values, our freedoms, and our national identity will  disappear. There is only room for one law in this country, and that is  the Constitution of the United States of America. Sharia law is anti- American and has no place in a free society.

Texas has already taken action to ban Sharia law, and I commend it.  Other States should follow. We must protect American values, not  apologize for them. I truly believe we are at a crossroads in this  country.

For too long, people have tiptoed around this issue, afraid to hurt  somebody's feelings or make people uncomfortable. But the time for  being politically correct is over. The truth is that radical Islamic  extremists want every single freedom-loving American dead--bottom line.  They have proven over and over again that they are willing to do  whatever it takes to kill just one American citizen, whatever it takes.

It doesn't just happen overseas. It has been allowed to fester and is  alive and well in our very own country, just waiting for the right  opportunity to attack. It is coming.

Just yesterday, thousands of extremists gathered in New York to  champion radical Islam; it is scary. So the question is, Will we  continue down this path and end up like Europe or will we honor the  sacrifices made by the millions of Americans who have given their lives  for our freedoms by standing up against people like the radical Islam?

Now is the time to act because if we don't, we will lose this country  as we know it. It will be gone. This isn't about a Republican or  Democrat issue; it is an American issue.

I hope my Democrat colleagues will join me in sending a loud, clear  message that we will not tolerate Sharia law in this country--not now,  not ever.