-9999


Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, for months, our Democratic colleagues  have been fearmongering about our healthcare system. They blamed  everyone but themselves for the skyrocketing premiums Americans are  dealing with today.

The truth is, Obamacare destroyed--absolutely destroyed--our  healthcare system. It is completely unaffordable. As a result, American  families are now paying the enormous price for Barack Obama and woke  Democrats' ObamaCare system.

Sure, the idea of ObamaCare sounded great. Who doesn't love the idea  of free healthcare? But those of us who live in reality or understand  basic economics knew this was never, ever going to work, which is why  not a single Republican voted for it in the Senate or the House, when  it was voted on.

You see, Obamacare was always destined to fail. You can't pump  millions of dollars into healthcare and not expect rampant fraud to  take place. It is not possible. Nevertheless, woke Democrats rammed it  through Congress, and it was signed into law by President Obama on  March 23, 2010. It was the biggest overhaul of our healthcare system  since Medicare and Medicaid, in 1965.

On paper, it sounded great--expand access, protect people with  preexisting conditions, and make insurance cheaper for families without  employer plans. But to no one's surprise, what started as a bold  Democratic dream of affordable coverage for all turned into a bloated  mess. In fact, the only winners of ObamaCare are the big insurance  companies that are getting filthy rich on the taxpayers' money.

Meanwhile, Americans are spending thousands of dollars on premiums  for coverage that often doesn't cover their needs. And Americans can  thank nine of my current Democrat colleagues who voted yes on that  final passage, in December 2009--Senators Murray, Cantwell, Wyden,  Merkley, Schumer, Gillibrand, Coons, Durbin, Sanders, and Tammy  Baldwin, who was in the House at the time. These Democrats jammed this  through with not a single Republican vote, ignoring real concerns about  how the system would limit competition, leading to lower standards of  care; or how it would line the pockets of the big insurance companies  while forcing hard-working Americans to pay high premiums; or how it  would decrease transparency, leaving Americans to often leave the  doctor's office not having a clue how much they owe when they leave; or  how rural hospitals would be forced to close their doors, and doctors  and nurses would be leaving the medical field because they couldn't  make a living.

But they didn't care about any of this. They didn't care about any of  it because they always knew we would wind up, today, in the position we  are in, 15 years later. They knew costs would become unaffordable for  Americans. They knew that, but they were just fine with that because  their end goal is to have socialized medicine paid for by American  taxpayers, which, by the way, has not worked anywhere in the world.  They have terrible healthcare when they do that.

Obamacare was just the first step toward free healthcare for all--the  first step. To start, ObamaCare created State and Federal Marketplaces  where individuals could shop for coverage. These Marketplaces were  intended to be online for health plans.

By the way, if you remember this, they spent about $10 billion and  couldn't get the healthcare website going. But we wasted all this  money. When they launched this, it just crashed. People couldn't use it  for weeks, months. It cost us hundreds of millions of dollars daily.  That was a foreshadowing of the disaster to come, if you just think  about it.

On the Marketplace, health plans are sorted in different levels-- bronze, silver, gold, and platinum. Each level shows how costs are  split, with bronze being the most basic, and platinum being the best  and higher coverage. The middle-of-the-road silver plan means that the  insurer pays for 70 percent of your care--insurance companies. The  enrollee pays the remaining 30 percent through deductibles, copays, and  coinsurance. Regardless of tier status, each plan covers what is called  the central health benefits--things like hospital stays, maternity  care, prescriptions, emergencies, and preventive services. That sounds  comprehensive, doesn't it? But it came at a heavy, heavy price, driving  up costs from day one.

This is where the Democrats' real problems started. They named this  ridiculous bill the Affordable Care Act. So they couldn't have  headlines on day one saying how prices were going up. What did they do?  To address this affordability issue, Democrats came up with two big  financial plans to supposedly help with affordability.

The first thing they did was create cost-sharing reductions, which  were designed for lower income buyers who had the silver plan.  Basically, CSRs allowed the government to help these silver plan  enrollees pay out-of-pocket costs like deductibles and copays. Shifting  the bulk of the cost to whom? The American taxpayers.

By 2017, a court ruling stopped these ridiculous CSR payments. So  insurance started raising silver plan prices to cover that gap that the  court said you couldn't do. As a result, families saw their premiums  jump 20 percent to 30 percent in some States.

And the second big Democrat idea was the premium tax credits, which  was created for people earning about $15,000 a year, and it was capped  at those making $60,000 a year. This program ballooned during the  pandemic, when Democrats decided to expand these subsidies.

In 2021, the American Rescue Plan got rid of the $60,000 income cap,  meaning higher income Americans could now qualify for the subsidies.  This meant that many lower income Americans got zero-premium plans for  the very first time. This caused enrollment in Obamacare to double in  just 5 years--double--from 11 million people enrolled in 2020 to 24  million in 2023.

Here we go.

This was all thanks to fatter subsidies, slacker rules, and year- round special enrollment periods, which allowed people to sign up at  any time, no questions asked.

These exchanges didn't lower costs. They just shifted the bill. To  whom? To the American taxpayer. Premiums kept rising, thanks to price- gouging and decreased competition.

But the taxpayer-funded subsidies temporarily shielded enrollees from  seeing how much costs were going up.

Take a family of four earning $80,000, for example. They might have  paid $500 a month for coverage before Democrats expanded these  subsidies--$500 a month. But now, they are paying zero for coverage  while you, the American taxpayer, are stuck with paying the rest of the  bill, just moving closer and closer to socialized medicine.

This is all thanks to the Democrats' broken subsidy system.

Guess who benefits the most. Not you. The Joint Economic Committee  report revealed that insurers and brokers are getting rich off of these  subsidies. For every $1 that is paid by the taxpayers, the families  only get 34 cents of this $1. The other, where does it go? It goes to  the insurance companies or it just disappears. I wonder where that  goes?

That is not affordability. That is a straight-up scam that the  American taxpayers are facing. Even worse, these loose rules turn the  Marketplace into a fraud playground. Enhanced subsidies made plans free  for people earning $15,000 to $23,000 a year. So, of course, people  started fudging the numbers to qualify for free coverage. Brokers and  scammers piled on, setting up systems claiming to enroll people for  free coverage, while stealing money for themselves.

A Paragon Institute report estimated that there were 5 to 6.4 million  cases of fraud, last year alone.

To catch some of the fraud, the Government Accountability Office  tried their own scam. They created 44 false applicants. They made up  Social Security numbers. They ran it through the system. Shockingly, 96  percent of the Government Accountability Office's fake applications got  approved--100 percent-free healthcare.

It is hard to figure out how exactly these people are getting  enrolled. Some are lying about their income. Some are double dipping  with Medicaid. And some, likely, might not be citizens of this country.

Sound familiar?

All of this fraud is hard to stop and hard to wrap your mind around.  But, unfortunately, the scam of ObamaCare is much bigger than  fraudulent enrollees. That is because ObamaCare just didn't destroy our  healthcare system. It also ``paid for'' itself by getting the  government involved in student loans.

You heard me right.

We are going to pay this--ObamaCare is going to pay for it through  student loans. Loans went from being managed and loaning borrowed money  from the bank to the Federal Government loaning money to go to  college--what a great idea. As a result, education is more expensive  than ever.

Listen to this. Today, after 5 years, 45 million students across this  country owe $2 trillion--embarrassing. We are screwing over our young  people who are just starting out in life, all to prop up this broken  ObamaCare system.

ObamaCare promised lower costs and better care, but 15 years in, it  delivered just the opposite. ObamaCare premiums have nearly tripled  since 2014, not to mention the outrageous bills you get after you leave  the doctor.

Quality healthcare is gone. Hospitals all over the country have been  forced to close. We are losing doctors and nurses, left and right,  because these jobs don't pay what they used to. Because we don't have  transparency in the system, bad actors are able to hide prices,  insurers face no real competition, and the COVID subsidies allowed  scammers to get rich off of fraudulent money that was intended for the  most vulnerable.

So, no, this is not Republicans' fault, as you are hearing. Not a  single Republican voted for this disaster called the Affordable Care  Act. Democrats voted for it then, and Democrats are the ones who own  this disaster today.

By the way, your premiums aren't going up 20 percent starting in  January because of expiring COVID subsidies, like Democrats want you to  believe. That is not happening. These credits are going up only 3  percent, 4 percent, 5 percent. The rest of the premiums are going up  because insurance companies are charging more. So don't let them tell  you the subsidies are because all of these premiums are going up. They  are getting rich off the American taxpayers. That is what is happening.

The way I see it, there are three main problems with the healthcare  system. The first problem, Democrats created a broken system that needs  to be repaired, and we are going to do that. I am glad to see several  of my Republican colleagues are working on this daily. I am hopeful any  Republican plan will focus on the main issue--affordability. The only  way to lower costs is through more competition and more transparency.  We need more plans to give Americans more of a choice when it comes to  insurance plans. This is the only way to drive costs down.

The second problem is that Democrats allowed 20 to 30 million  illegals to come into this country under Joe Biden, many of whom came  from Third World countries. Many of these people have never ever been  to the doctor and have all sorts of health problems. These illegals are  now overrunning our emergency rooms, and you, the American taxpayers,  are paying for it. The next time you go to the ER, see how long it  takes you to get in, and then blame the Democrats. The next time a  hospital in your town closes, as has happened all over my State of  Alabama, blame the Democrats.

The third problem is that we are horribly sick in this country.  Americans are the unhealthiest we have ever been: 74 percent of  Americans are either overweight or obese. More than 76 percent of  Americans have at least one chronic disease. Cancer rates are  increasing among young people at an alarming rate. If we do not start  getting healthier in this country by working out, eating healthier, and  getting rid of processed foods and toxic ingredients, we are not going  to make it.

Our healthcare system was not built to support so many unhealthy  people. Fifty years ago, you didn't have any of this crap because  Americans were more active and didn't have all of this processed food.  We are overmedicated, overweight, and sicker than ever, and our  healthcare system simply wasn't built to handle it.

Thank God that Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., is working around the clock to  make America healthy again. We need it.

At the end of the day, the Republicans have control of the Senate,  the House, and the White House. We have no excuse not to do something  about this healthcare disaster. We need to come up with a plan that  actually delivers for the American people. This is not a Republican or  a Democrat problem. Every American is getting screwed over every day by  this horrible healthcare system. The Republican Party is working to fix  this. Let's grow a backbone and do what is right for the American  people.