Expressing Support for the Designation of October As the ``National Day of Remembrance for Charlie Kirk''


Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to honor my  friend and true American patriot Charlie Kirk.

Charlie was one of the most influential people in America. He was an  extremely effective teacher--I repeat, a  teacher--of young people. He helped educate millions of young Americans  about patriotism and conservative moral values.

His organization, Turning Point USA, is largely credited with  President Trump's unprecedented success with young voters in this past  election.

But he didn't just reach out to conservative students. He was a  champion of free speech for everybody.

Over the past week, I have enjoyed seeing many, many, many videos of  Charlie's debates with college students all over our great country.

The first thing you notice when you watch these videos is how  brilliant Charlie was. He could beat anyone in a debate and, clearly,  had a great career in front of him.

But the second thing you notice about these debates is how kind  Charlie was. He never raised his voice. He never said anything hateful.  If you looked up the words ``positive attitude'' in the dictionary,  Charlie Kirk's name would come up.

I don't know if I could stay as calm as he did while he was talking  with some of these confused young students, to be honest with you. But  Charlie always rose above it and extended grace, even to the people he  disagreed with the most. That was clearly because of his Christian  faith, which influenced everything that Charlie did. He was extremely  outspoken about Christianity, and I truly believe this is one of the  main reasons that he lost his life.

He was also an incredible, devoted father and husband. He talked  often about how the most meaningful thing you can do in life is to get  married and have kids. What a powerful and much needed message for our  young people to hear.

There is so much more I could say about Charlie, but I think the  outpouring of love and support after his death speaks for itself. If  you notice, there haven't been riots this past week. Businesses have  not been forced to board up their windows. Instead, prayer vigils have  been held for Charlie not only across the country but around the world.  Pews and parking lots were overflowing in churches this past Sunday. I  have seen countless social media posts of people saying they purchased  their Bibles for the first time this week because of Charlie.

When Charlie was asked how he wanted to be remembered in an interview  earlier this year, he said he wanted to be remembered for having  courage for his faith. And that is exactly how Charlie is being  remembered.

Charlie may have gone home to be with the Lord, but his work here on  Earth won't stop.

I am glad to see that Turning Point has had more than 54,000 requests  for new chapters at colleges and high schools across the country.

I have a granddaughter Rosie Gracie, and I will absolutely encourage  her to get involved in Turning Point when she is just a little bit  older.

To Charlie's grieving wife Erika and his two beautiful children, we  are praying for you. Just know how grateful we are for Charlie's life  and legacy. I will continue fighting every day for the values that  Charlie believed in: faith, family, and freedom.