Unanimous Consent Requests--The Calendar


Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to honor the  life of Ella Cook, one of the victims in last weekend's horrific attack  that killed two and left more wounded at Brown University.

Ella was a 19-year-old female and a sophomore at Brown. Her life was  taken far too soon in a disgusting act of violence that leaves all of  us searching for answers.

You know, moments like this remind all of us how short life really is  and how important it is to take advantage of every moment. Ella  certainly took advantage of every moment she had with us here on Earth.

She grew up in Mountain Brook, AL--a suburb of Birmingham--with two  loving parents, Anna and Richard, and two siblings, Hooker and Mary  Hamner.

Ella loved to play piano, dance, and travel. She was studying French  at Brown University. She also loved kids and spent much of her time  babysitting and serving in Sunday school. She believed her highest  calling was to be a mom one day.

But the most important thing to know about Ella is that she was a  devout Christian. She was very involved in her church, the Cathedral  Church of the Advent in Birmingham, and was loved by everyone there.

In her obituary, it says:

Not only did her personal faith shine out like a bright       Christmas star, but she loved others as real people, not as       objects. Ella loved God with her whole heart and she loved       people--with her whole heart!

The reverend of Ella's church described her as ``an incredible,  grounded, faithful, bright light'' who ``lifted up those around her.''  I can't think of a better legacy to leave behind than that.

She went off to college at Brown, where she was studying French,  mathematics, economics, and was obviously very, very smart. She also  was a patriot who loved this country, and she served as vice president  of the College Republicans at Brown University. She was clearly a very  courageous young lady, and I can't imagine that was an easy job on such  a liberal campus as Brown. But Ella was resolute in her mission to  speak the truth and to fight every day for Christian values that have  made this country great.

The president of the College Republicans of America described Ella as  being ``known for her bold, brave, and kind heart as she served her  chapter and her fellow classmates.''

You know, the true measure of a life is not found in its length but  its impact. And in the stories shared and the grief that is being  expressed, it is clear that Ella left a lasting imprint on the people  she touched. Alabama misses Ella, and we join her family and friends in  grieving her loss.

You know, it certainly seems like this might have been a targeted  attack. We will not rest until the deranged psychopath who did this is  brought to justice. But that being said, may God bless the Cook family  and give them peace and comfort in the midst of unspeakable tragedy.  And may we honor Ella by carrying forward the values she lived by.  Though her life was taken far too soon, we know she is in Heaven now,  and we will make sure that Ella's legacy of patriotism and faith lives  on here on Earth.

May God bless the Cook family, and may God bless Ella Cook.