National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise in support of the resolution that  Senator Cramer and I introduced to overturn the Bureau of Land  Management resource management plan for North Dakota.

This flawed plan, finalized during the closing days of the Biden  administration, undermines BLM's multiple-use mandate and restricts  access to vast, taxpayer-owned energy reserves in North Dakota. It is  yet another example of the Biden administration's overreaching Green  New Deal agenda intended to block access to domestic energy production.

North Dakota is an energy powerhouse and the third largest oil- producing State in the Nation. Our energy producers operate under the  highest environmental standards in the world.

But the Biden administration's North Dakota resource management plan  ignores that record of responsible energy development. Instead, the  North Dakota resource management plan seeks to curtail coal, oil, and  gas production by locking away taxpayer-owned energy reserves and  jeopardizing our Nation's energy security.

Under this plan, nearly 213,000 acres--or 45 percent--of Federal oil  and gas acreage is closed off to new leasing. It also closes off access  to over 4 million acres--nearly 99 percent--of Federal coal, impacting  development at all of North Dakota's major lignite coal mines.

These restrictions will drive up supply costs for baseload coal-fired  powerplants--costs that will be ultimately passed on to electric  customers across the region. We supply a large region of the Midwest  with electric power.

This comes at a time when energy demand is rising. As manufacturing  is brought back home and new industries like artificial intelligence  and data centers are coming online, our need for affordable, reliable  energy is only growing. It makes no sense for the Federal Government to  restrict access to the very resources needed to power our economy.

In North Dakota, BLM manages 58,000 acres of surface land and about  4.1 million acres of subsurface minerals. Federal minerals are  scattered and often intermingled with State and privately owned  minerals due to North Dakota's unique split estate. So when the Federal  Government imposes blanket restrictions as included under the Biden-era  resource management plan, it blocks development of State and privately  owned minerals as well.

The State of North Dakota estimates that this plan would cost $34  million every year in lost revenue from oil and gas alone, including  revenue for school trust lands that is meant for North Dakota  classrooms.

I am pleased to join Senator Cramer and Congresswoman Julie Fedorchak  in introducing this CRA resolution, and I urge my colleagues to support  it and help overturn this overreaching and restrictive plan. By passing  this resolution, we can continue working with President Trump and  Interior Secretary Burgum to take the handcuffs off and unleash North  Dakota's full energy potential.