-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697323/9999


Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise to celebrate the 20th  anniversary of New Life Centers, an organization that I am proud to  represent in my district.

Led by Pastor Matt DeMateo, New Life Centers started as a small group  working on community violence intervention programs and is now a  citywide movement providing our youth with mentoring, education,  sports, play, summer day camps, after-school, and peacemaking programs.

Its community-based, hands-on approach has played a key role in  driving down gun violence in our neighborhood of Little Village. New  Life Centers Community Care programs also serve more than 45,000  individuals in need of housing, food, and other necessities. Its Pan de  Vida Fresh Market distributes food to more than 35,000 individuals per  year, filling the gaps that the funding cuts to Federal nutrition  programs have created.

When Operation Midway Blitz brought chaos and pain to our community,  Pastor Matt and New Life Centers responded by supporting immigrant  families, taking food to their homes, and helping find loved ones that  ICE had taken.

Mr. Speaker, the work of New Life Centers helps strengthen our  community through faith, hope, and healing. I look forward to many more  years of partnerships to change the lives and change neighborhoods.                 Recognizing Otis P. Graves Elementary School

Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with great pride to  celebrate the 100th anniversary of Otis P. Graves Elementary School in  my district.

Its dual language model develops bilingual and biliterate students  that can succeed and be proficient in English and Spanish, opening  future opportunities in an increasingly global society.

Even through the challenging moments our community has faced this  year, this school has remained a safe and welcoming place for all kids  and has promoted and instilled a love of learning. No matter what may  be happening at home or in the world, these kids know that they can  come here to learn and feel supported.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored to represent them in Congress, and I  applaud the teachers, staff, administrators, and families that have  helped build this milestone.

Congratulations to Otis P. Graves, and here is to 100 more years.                     175th Anniversary of Leyden Township

Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, as the year comes to an end, I  join Leyden Township in Cook County, Illinois, in celebration of the  175th anniversary of its establishment.

In addition to the unincorporated areas, the Leyden Township borders  include part of Rosemont, Schiller Park, Franklin Park, part of  Northlake, River Grove, Elmwood Park, parts of Melrose Park, Park  Ridge, the most western part of Norridge and Bensenville, east of  County Line Road.

Leyden Township is a place where neighbors care about each other and  love spending time getting to know each other. You just have to attend  one of their bingo nights to understand what I mean.

With more than 93,000 residents, Leyden Township takes care of their  people. They have a pantry for those in need, a township handyman that  provides free services for seniors, and a recreation department  dedicated to building a stronger community through educational and  recreational programming.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Leyden Township on its first 175 years.