Authority Without Accountability


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699041/authority-without-accountability


Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, it is with a heavy heart that I  rise today with both anger and urgency.

What we are witnessing in this country is not law enforcement. It is  violence followed by lies. It is authority without accountability.

Since Trump returned to power, at least 36 people have died in ICE  custody, and 2 have been shot and killed by ICE agents. These are not  just numbers. They are lives, people with families. We must say their  names, tell their stories, and stop state-sanctioned violence.

Last week in Minneapolis, a 37-year-old American mother, Renee Good,  was killed by an ICE agent. It was caught on video for the world to  see. Almost immediately, the lies began.

DHS Secretary Kristi Noem said that Renee Good posed an imminent  threat, even floating the words ``domestic terrorism.'' Yet, the facts  don't back this up. Eyewitnesses don't back this up. The video doesn't  back up the lies repeated by DHS immediately after the killing.

State law enforcement in Minnesota have been blocked from the vehicle  where Renee was killed because the FBI sealed it off, blocking  transparency and accountability.

Renee Good's murder is not an isolated incident. In my community, we  know this pattern all too well. In September, Silverio Villegas  Gonzalez, a father of two, was killed by ICE on the side of a road in  my district after dropping off his kids at school. Right on cue, we got  the same script: immediate vague allegations by DHS, lies instead of  facts, no transparency, no accountability, and no respect for the  family left behind.

There was also Marimar Martinez, another constituent. An ICE agent  shot her five times and then arrested her. ICE leveled serious criminal  accusations to justify it. Later, quietly, those charges were dropped.  Why? It was because they were lies, but the damage was done. Her name  was dragged through the mud. Her family was terrorized. Her community  is still shaken.

This was how a teacher in our community was victimized, and it didn't  stop there.

Juan Espinoza Martinez, also from my district, was accused of serious  conspiracy to commit crimes that never happened. ICE made them up and  publicly smeared his name. Those charges were dropped as well because  they were false. There was no apology, no discipline, and no  consequences.

ICE acts first and then lies. The lie sets the frame. The truth is  forced to play defense.

In 2025, Republicans gave ICE $75 billion, a nearly 300 percent  increase in its annual budget, at the same time that they stripped  millions of Americans of their healthcare. Republicans now want to give  ICE and Border Patrol even more money.

We are asked to fund an agency that does the following: sends masked  agents into communities like my neighborhood to use loaded guns and  tear gas against our neighbors. It arrests people without warrants. It  engages in obscene racial profiling and discrimination that communities  see clearly, even when Washington looks away. It stops Members of  Congress from inspecting detention centers, which is their duty as a  coequal branch of government.

These facts should outrage every Member of this House. If you believe  in the rule of law, you should be furious. If you believe in  congressional oversight, you should be furious. If you believe that  Federal agencies should not lie to justify violence, you should be  furious because when an agency lies to the public, lies to the courts,  and lies to Congress, they are spitting in our faces.

This is not about being for or against immigration enforcement. This  is about whether we tolerate violence followed by coverups. This is  about whether or not we accept fabricated charges as a means of  intimidation.