Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701479/defending-american-property-abroad-act-of-2026


Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my strong  opposition to this bill.

First of all, this bill and the substance of the bill, this dispute,  is undergoing consideration by the international bodies established by  the U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. We really should wait until a  decision is arrived at with respect to that mechanism, but there are  other considerations.

First, let's consider other far-reaching implications. The bill gives  the President the authority to prohibit vessels that travel through  certain Western Hemisphere ports, which he designates, from entering  U.S. waters. While supporters say that the bill is narrowly written to  target a specific project in a specific country, the reality is that  the President will be given broad authority that could be applied to  other countries in the future.

Let's not forget who we are talking about here. This is the same  President who used military force in Venezuela to force regime change,  the same President who is now engaging in an illegal war with Iran  without even consulting Congress.

Mr. Speaker, do we really want to entrust the President with this new  authority granted under this bill?

Equally damaging, the bill ignores the objections of local people  fighting for their right to safe drinking water in a surrounding  environment free of contamination. That is what is in the dispute  resolution matter being addressed now.

I have spoken to local community leaders who have suffered from the  environmental damage caused by these mining operations. This bill  limits the ability of foreign governments to adopt measures that  protect their communities and their environment, essentially coercing  those foreign governments to prioritize the interests of U.S.  corporations over their people.

We should not be legislating to hinder a foreign government's ability  to protect its citizens from environmental harm. We should not be  granting the President a new authority that could have broad foreign  policy implications.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join with me and to vote ``no''  on this proposal.