End Cruel Immigration Enforcement Against Kids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701414/end-cruel-immigration-enforcement-against-kids


Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Dexter  and Tonko for shining a spotlight on the impact on children from the  enforcement efforts of ICE and Customs and Border Protection agents.

Here is what is happening in communities across the country: A 1- year-old baby and his parents are pepper-sprayed while driving to the  grocery store.

A high school student was zip-tied and detained on his way to school  despite his U.S. citizenship, and he was detained for several days.

Families with children were ripped out of bed in the dead of night,  zip-tied, and detained after the apartments that they lived in were  raided by agents using military helicopters, so Kristi Noem could get  her videos.

Children at a daycare were startled, scared, and traumatized by the  armed agents bursting into their classrooms, chasing one of their  teachers to abduct her.

These scenes are not from a war zone. These are violent incidents  that happened in Cicero, in Roscoe Village, in South Shore, and in my  own neighborhood of Little Village in Chicagoland.

Those were ICE and CBP agents, paid by our tax dollars, committing  atrocities, targeting my constituents and their children because of the  color of their skin or the places where their parents worked.

More than 500 children were being held at the immigration detention  center in Dilley, Texas, in January alone. Many for more than twice the  20 days that the law allows the government to hold children in  detention.

We have seen the pictures drawn by some of these children. Their  letters longing for their friends, schools, and families, a return to  normalcy. Then the administration took away their crayons and paper so  that people outside the detention center wouldn't learn what was  happening inside.

Right now, two of my constituents are detained at Dilley, a mother  and her 13-year-old son who were taken by ICE at a routine check-in  appointment. Both had developed serious physical and mental issues, but  ICE is denying them medical attention and medication.

They are not the only ones. Children have suffered for months because  of the abuses of ICE and CBP agents. Many of them may never overcome  the trauma caused by their time in detention and the violent actions of  our own government.

The stories I shared are just some of the children we know about.  There are hundreds of children terrorized by ICE who we don't know  about.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my Republican colleagues, what is the purpose of  imprisoning innocent children? No moral or legal argument exists to  justify imprisoning and neglecting children. I implore my Republican  colleagues to care for these children as if they were our own. Anything  less is inexcusable.