Recognizing Little Palestine Arab American Heritage Month 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701427/recognizing-little-palestine-arab-american-heritage-month-2026


Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Madam Speaker, April is Arab American  Heritage Month, and I rise today to celebrate Little Palestine, a  vibrant community in the southwest region of Cook County, in my  district.

In the early 20th century, families from the small Palestinian town  of Betunia immigrated to Chicago, attracted by the city's prosperity.

Many found jobs in hotels, restaurants, and factories. Many of their  U.S.-born children proudly served in the military and served their  country. This entrepreneurial community soon began to open up bakeries,  restaurants, markets, and specialty fashion stores.

Now, there are more than 200 Arab-owned businesses in Little  Palestine. Little Palestine also has cultural centers, community  service organizations, and mosques, contributing toward making it a  close-knit community that honors the rich culture, heritage, and spirit  of the Arab-American community.

I am proud and grateful for the contributions that the families,  businesses, and cultural centers of Little Palestine bring to my  district and to Chicagoland.                     Honoring Poet Gregorio Gomez Aguayo

Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Gregorio  Gomez Aguayo, a talented writer, poet, producer, and organizer.

Gregorio has been nominated for the award of poet laureate of the  State of Illinois twice and has been selected as part of Chicago's  Newcity Lit 50, which highlights the city's 50 most influential people  in Chicago in the literary scene.

Born in Veracruz, Mexico, Gregorio has been a part of Chicago's  artistic and spoken word community for almost 40 years. His poetry  delves into themes of heritage, identity, and the human experience and  navigates the duality of his Mexican roots and his American upbringing.

Last weekend, in Chicago, Gregorio presented his most recent poetry  collection, ``Requiem: Journey Thru a Poetic Odyssey,'' and I can't  wait to read all of it.

I congratulate Gregorio on his new work.                         Recognizing Mayda Del Valle

Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I rise today to celebrate  South Side native Mayda Del Valle, who has been named Chicago's next  poet laureate.

Mayda is a poet, educator, and interdisciplinary artist who will now  serve as ambassador for our city's literary and creative communities.

Rooted in her Puerto Rican diaspora, her work invites audiences to  see themselves reflected on it. She challenges us to remember where we  come from and imagine what we can build together.

Mayda has been recognized as one of America's young innovators in the  arts and sciences. She has performed on stages across the Nation. As a  dedicated educator, Mayda has taught poetry in schools, colleges, and  youth detention facilities, inspiring the next generation of artists.

I congratulate Mayda on this extraordinary honor.                Recognizing Arise Chicago on 35th Anniversary

Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the  35th anniversary of Arise Chicago, an organization founded by a  coalition of religious leaders on the principle that all workers  deserve dignity in the workplace.

Its strategic vision includes effective education, advocacy efforts,  and programs to empower workers to take action beyond their workplaces.  Thanks to Arise Chicago's efforts, thousands of workers have recovered  more than $10 million in stolen wages and compensation and increased  their wages by over $6 million.

In 2026, Arise continues to work to eradicate harassment and  discrimination from the workplace, to ensure fair payment, and to  educate immigrant workers about their rights in the midst of the anti- immigrant environment that our country is living in.

I am grateful for Arise Chicago's work, and I look forward to  continuing to partner with them.