American Music Tourism Act of 2025


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 617) to amend the Visit America Act to promote music  tourism, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 617

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``American Music Tourism Act       of 2025''.       SEC. 2. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF                     COMMERCE FOR TRAVEL AND TOURISM.

(a) Domestic Travel and Tourism.--Section 605(b) of the       Visit America Act (15 U.S.C. 9803(b)) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a       semicolon;

(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and       inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(4) identify locations and events in the United States       that are important to music tourism and facilitate and       promote domestic travel and tourism to those locations and       events.''.

(b) Facilitation of International Business and Leisure       Travel.--Section 605 of the Visit America Act (15 U.S.C.       9803) is amended by striking subsection (d) and inserting the       following:

``(d) Facilitation of International Business and Leisure       Travel.--The Assistant Secretary, in coordination with       relevant Federal agencies, shall strive to increase and       facilitate international business and leisure travel to the       United States and ensure competitiveness by--

``(1) facilitating large meetings, incentives, conferences,       and exhibitions in the United States;

``(2) emphasizing rural and other destinations in the       United States that are rich in cultural heritage or       ecological tourism, among other uniquely American       destinations, as locations for hosting international       meetings, incentives, conferences, and exhibitions;

``(3) facilitating and promoting international travel and       tourism to sports and recreation events and activities in the       United States; and

``(4) identifying locations and events in the United States       that are important to music tourism and facilitating and       promoting international travel and tourism to those locations       and events.''.

(c) Reporting Requirements.--Section 605(f) of the Visit       America Act (15 U.S.C. 9803(f)) is amended by adding at the       end the following:

``(4) Report on goals relating to domestic and       international travel.--Not later than 1 year after the date       of enactment of the American Music Tourism Act of 2025, and       every 2 years thereafter, the Assistant Secretary shall       submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and       Commerce of the House of Representatives a report of       activities, findings, achievements, and vulnerabilities       relating to the goals described in subsections (a) through       (d).''.

(d) Definition.--Section 600 of title VI of division BB of       the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (15 U.S.C. 9801) is       amended--

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as       subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and adjusting the       margins accordingly;

(2) by striking ``In this title, the term `COVID-19 public       health emergency'--'' and inserting the following:

``In this title:

``(1) COVID-19 public health emergency.--The term `COVID-19       public health emergency'--''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(2) Music tourism.--The term `music tourism' means--

``(A) the act of traveling to a State or locality to visit       historic or modern day music-related attractions, including       museums, studios, venues of all sizes, and other sites       related to music; or

``(B) the act of traveling to a State or locality to attend       a music festival, a concert, or other live musical       performance or music-related special event.''.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 617, the  American Music Tourism Act of 2025, led by the gentlewoman from  Tennessee (Mrs. Harshbarger), my good friend and a great member of the  Committee on Energy and Commerce.

Madam Speaker, this bipartisan legislation directs the National  Travel and Tourism Office to promote domestic and international tourism  to U.S. music festivals, concert venues, and other music-related  attractions.

Music tourism is a significant economic driver. It is estimated that,  by 2032, it will become a $13.8 billion industry. By enhancing our  promotion of music-related tourism, we can stimulate local economies,  create jobs, and showcase America's rich cultural heritage.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in favor of  H.R.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, let me tell you, the speaker on the floor  of the House of Representatives in the great State of Florida used to  begin his speeches by saying, ``I am fired up.'' I am fired up, Mr.  Speaker, because we are going to pass a great bill that promotes  America.

With the previous bill honoring the 1980 USA Gold Medal hockey team,  this is a great day in D.C. and all over the United States of America.

In closing, I urge a ``yes'' vote on this particular bill, and I  yield back the balance of my time.