Hotel Fees Transparency Act of 2025


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1479) to prohibit unfair and deceptive advertising of prices  for hotel rooms and other places of short-term lodging, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1479

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Hotel Fees Transparency Act       of 2025''.       SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON UNFAIR AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING OF                     HOTEL ROOMS AND OTHER SHORT-TERM RENTAL PRICES.

(a) Prohibition.--

(1) In general.--It shall be unlawful for a covered entity       to display, advertise, market, or offer in interstate       commerce, including through direct offerings, third-party       distribution, or metasearch referrals, a price for covered       services that does not clearly, conspicuously, and       prominently--

(A) display the total services price, if a price is       displayed, in any advertisement, marketing, or price list       wherever the covered services are displayed, advertised,       marketed, or offered for sale;

(B) disclose to any individual who seeks to purchase       covered services the total services price at the time the       covered services are first displayed to the individual and       anytime thereafter throughout the covered services purchasing       process; and

(C) disclose, prior to the final purchase, any tax, fee, or       assessment imposed by any government entity, quasi-government       entity, or government-created special district or program on       the sale of covered services.

(2) Individual components.--Provided that such displays are       less prominent than the total service price required in       paragraph (1), nothing in this Act shall be construed to       prohibit the display of--

(A) individual components of the total price; or

(B) details of other items not required by paragraph (1).

(3) Indemnification provisions.--Nothing in this section       shall be construed to prohibit any covered entity from       entering into a contract with any other covered entity that       contains an indemnification provision with respect to price       or fee information disclosed, exchanged, or shared between       the covered entities that are parties to the contract.

(b) Enforcement.--

(1) Enforcement by the commission.--

(A) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices.--A violation of       subsection (a) shall be treated as a violation of a rule       defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice prescribed       under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act       (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)).

(B) Powers of the commission.--

(i) In general.--The Commission shall enforce this section       in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same       jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable       terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15       U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of       this Act.

(ii) Privileges and immunities.--Any person who violates       this section shall be subject to the penalties and entitled       to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal       Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.).

(iii) Authority preserved.--Nothing in this section shall       be construed to limit the authority of the Commission under       any other provision of law.

(2) Enforcement by states.--

(A) In general.--If the attorney general of a State has       reason to believe that an interest of the residents of the       State has been or is being threatened or adversely affected       by a practice that violates subsection (a), the attorney       general of the State may, as parens patriae, bring a civil       action on behalf of the residents of the State in an       appropriate district court of the United States to obtain       appropriate relief.

(B) Rights of the commission.--

(i) Notice to the commission.--

(I) In general.--Except as provided in subclause (III), the       attorney general of a State, before initiating a civil action       under subparagraph (A) shall notify the Commission in writing       that the attorney general intends to bring such civil action.

(II) Contents.--The notification required by subclause (I)       shall include a copy of the complaint to be filed to initiate       the civil action.

(III) Exception.--If it is not feasible for the attorney       general of a State to provide the notification required by       subclause (I) before initiating a civil action under       subparagraph (A), the attorney general shall notify the       Commission immediately upon instituting the civil action.

(ii) Intervention by the commission.--The Commission may--

(I) intervene in any civil action brought by the attorney       general of a State under subparagraph (A); and

(II) upon intervening--

(aa) be heard on all matters arising in the civil action;       and

(bb) file petitions for appeal.

(C) Investigatory powers.--Nothing in this paragraph may be       construed to prevent the attorney general of a State from       exercising the powers conferred on the attorney general by       the laws of the State to conduct investigations, to       administer oaths or affirmations, or to compel the attendance       of witnesses or the production of documentary or other       evidence.

(D) Action by the commission.--Whenever a civil action has       been instituted by or on behalf of the Commission for       violation of subsection (a), no attorney general of a State       may, during the pendency of that action, institute an action       under subparagraph (A) against any defendant named in the       complaint in that action for a violation of subsection (a)       alleged in such complaint.

(E) Venue; service of process.--

(i) Venue.--Any action brought under subparagraph (A) may       be brought in--

(I) the district court of the United States that meets       applicable requirements relating to venue under section 1391       of title 28, United States Code; or

(II) another court of competent jurisdiction.

(ii) Service of process.--In an action brought under       subparagraph (A), process may be served in any district in       which--

(I) the defendant is an inhabitant, may be found, or       transacts business; or

(II) venue is proper under section 1391 of title 28, United       States Code.

(F) Actions by other state officials.--

(i) In general.--In addition to civil actions brought by an       attorney general under subparagraph (A), any other officer of       a State who is authorized by the State to do so may bring a       civil action under subparagraph (A), subject to the same       requirements and limitations that apply under this paragraph       to civil actions brought by attorneys general.

(ii) Savings provision.--Nothing in this paragraph may be       construed to prohibit an authorized official of a State from       initiating or continuing any proceeding in a court of the       State for a violation of any civil or criminal law of the       State.

(3) Affirmative defense.--In any action pursuant to       paragraph (1) or (2), an intermediary or third-party online       seller may assert an affirmative defense if such intermediary       or third-party online seller--

(A) established procedures to receive up-to-date price       information from hotels or short-term rentals, or agents       acting on behalf of a hotel or short-term rental;

(B) relied in good faith on information provided to the       intermediary or third-party online seller by a hotel or       short-term rental, or agent acting on behalf of such hotel or       short-term rental, and such information was inaccurate at the       time it was provided to the intermediary or third-party       online seller; and

(C) took prompt action to remove or correct any false or       inaccurate information about the total services price after       receiving notice that such information was false or       inaccurate.

(c) Preemption.--

(1) In general.--A State, or political subdivision of a       State, may not maintain, enforce, prescribe, or continue in       effect any law, rule, regulation, requirement, standard, or       other provision having the force and effect of law of the       State, or political subdivision of the State, that prohibits       a covered entity from advertising, displaying, marketing, or       otherwise offering, or otherwise affects the manner in which       a covered entity may advertise, display, market, or otherwise       offer, for sale in interstate commerce, including through a       direct offering, third-party distribution, or metasearch       referral, a price of a reservation for a covered service, and       that requires fee disclosure, unless such provision requires       the total services price to include each service fee in       accordance with subsection (a)(1).

(2) Rule of construction.--This section may not be       construed to--

(A) preempt any law of a State or political subdivision of       a State relating to contracts or torts; or

(B) preempt any law of a State or political subdivision of       a State to the extent that such law relates to an act of       fraud, unauthorized access to personal information, or       notification of unauthorized access to personal information.

(d) Definitions.--In this Act:

(1) Base services price.--The term ``base services       price''--

(A) means, with respect to the covered services provided by       a hotel or short-term rental, the price in order to obtain       the covered services of the hotel or short-term rental; and

(B) does not include--

(i) any service fee;

(ii) any taxes or fees imposed by a government or quasi-      government entity;

(iii) assessment fees of a government-created special       district or program; or

(iv) any charges or fees for an optional product or service       associated with the covered services that may be selected by       a purchaser of covered services.

(2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal       Trade Commission.

(3) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means a       person, partnership, or corporation with respect to whom the       Commission has jurisdiction under section 5(a)(2) of the       Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45(a)(2)),       including--

(A) a hotel or short-term rental;

(B) a third-party online seller; or

(C) an intermediary.

(4) Covered services.--The term ``covered services''--

(A) means the temporary provision of a room, building, or       other lodging facility; and

(B) does not include the provision of a meeting room,       banquet services, or catering services.

(5) Hotel.--The term ``hotel'' means an establishment that       is--

(A) primarily engaged in providing a covered service to the       general public; and

(B) promoted, advertised, or marketed in interstate       commerce or for which such establishment's services are sold       in interstate commerce.

(6) Intermediary.--The term ``intermediary'' means an       entity that operates either as a business-to-business       platform, consumer-facing platform, or both, that displays,       including through direct offerings, third-party distribution,       or metasearch referral, a price for covered services or price       comparison tools for consumers seeking covered services.

(7) Optional product or service.--The term ``optional       product or service'' means a product or service that an       individual does not need to purchase to use or obtain covered       services.

(8) Service fee.--The term ``service fee''--

(A) means a charge imposed by a covered entity that must be       paid in order to obtain covered services; and

(B) does not include--

(i) any taxes or fees imposed by a government or quasi-      government entity;

(ii) any assessment fees of a government-created special       district or program; or

(iii) any charges or fees for an optional product or       service associated with the covered services that may be       selected by a purchaser of covered services.

(9) Short-term rental.--The term ``short-term rental''       means a property, including a single-family dwelling or a       unit in a condominium, cooperative, or time-share, that       provides covered services (either with respect to the entire       property or a part of the property) to the general public--

(A) in exchange for a fee;

(B) for periods shorter than 30 consecutive days; and

(C) is promoted, advertised, or marketed in interstate       commerce or for which such property's services are sold in       interstate commerce.

(10) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the 50       States, the District of Columbia, and any territory or       possession of the United States.

(11) Third-party online seller.--The term ``third-party       online seller'' means any person other than a hotel or short-      term rental that sells covered services or offers for sale       covered services with respect to a hotel or short-term rental       in a transaction facilitated on the internet.

(12) Total services price.--The term ``total services''--

(A) means, with respect to covered services, the total cost       of the covered services, including the base services price       and any service fees; and

(B) does not include--

(i) any taxes or fees imposed by a government or quasi-      government entity;

(ii) any assessment fees of a government-created special       district or program; or

(iii) any charges or fees for an optional product or       service associated with the covered services that may be       selected by a purchaser of covered services.

(e) Effective Date.--The prohibition under subsection (a)       shall take effect 450 days after the date of the enactment of       this Act and shall apply to advertisements, displays,       marketing, and offers of covered services of a covered entity       made on or after such date.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1479, the Hotel  Fees Transparency Act of 2025, led by Representative Kim.

This bipartisan legislation aims to prohibit unfair and deceptive  advertising of prices for hotel rooms and other short-term lodging by  requiring that all mandatory fees, including resort fees, be included  in the advertised price.

Hidden fees can significantly inflate the cost of accommodations,  leading to consumer frustration and eroding trust in the hospitality  industry. By ensuring transparent pricing, we empower consumers to make  informed decisions and promote fair competition among lodging  providers.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote. I thank, again,  Representatives Kim, Mullin, Fry, and Kathy Castor of Florida, my good  friend, and others who worked for this particular bill, a good consumer  bill. Again, let's get this done as soon as possible.