Mikaela Naylon Give Kids A Chance Act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I am rising in strong support of H.R.  1262, the Mikaela Naylon Give Kids a Chance Act, led by my friend, the  gentleman from Texas, Congressman McCaul.

This piece of legislation is comprised of bipartisan solutions to  increase access to innovative treatments for those living with rare  diseases, particularly children and adolescents.

Ten years ago, Mr. Speaker, the idea that we would be able to not  just treat but cure sickle cell disease sounded like a dream that was  too far out of reach. Today, we are curing sickle cell disease. We are  curing spinal muscular atrophy. We are curing hemophilia and blood  cancers. These cures are just a few of the success stories attributable  to the FDA's Rare Pediatric Disease Priority Review Voucher Program.

The PRV program is a powerful incentive that spurs the development of  treatments for rare pediatric diseases, providing a lifeline for  patients who require specialized treatments.

I also want to highlight the other provisions in this bill that seek  to bolster important components of our healthcare system.

This legislation supports the improvement of the Organ Procurement  and Transplantation Network by allowing the Secretary of HHS to collect  member registration fees to support the operation of the OPTN.

This bill also helps secure our medical product supply chain by  requiring the FDA to establish an office in a country that has signed  the Abraham Accords.

I am grateful to Representatives Harshbarger and Vargas for their  work to facilitate operations between the FDA and regulatory  authorities and innovators in Abraham Accords countries.

Last but not least, this bill also includes a provision championed by  Representatives Dunn and Mullin that will ensure more affordable drug  options are available to patients faster rather than being delayed by  unnecessary red tape.

Mr. Speaker, this bill has one of the largest totals of bipartisan  cosponsors of any legislation we will see this Congress.

One of the reasons for that is the tireless work of the patient  advocates. They come to our office on a regular basis and tell us their  personal stories. It makes such a difference, Mr. Speaker.

This bill now bears the name of one of those heroic kids, Mikaela  Naylon, who passed away earlier this year after battling cancer for  nearly 6 years. May her memory be eternal. She was 16 years old, and I  will never forget the videos.

Throughout her battle, Mikaela was a fierce advocate of this bill to  create  hope for a cure, not just for herself but for the thousands of kids  around the country who are fighting the same fight.

This is a very important bill, and I want to get it to the Senate as  soon as possible so it can become law.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill.