Promoting Resilient Supply Chains Act of 2025


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 2444) to establish a critical supply chain resiliency and  crisis response program in the Department of Commerce, and to secure  American leadership in deploying emerging technologies, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2444

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This title may be cited as the ``Promoting Resilient Supply       Chains Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF                     COMMERCE FOR INDUSTRY AND ANALYSIS.

In addition to the responsibilities of the Assistant       Secretary on the day before the date of the enactment of this       Act, the Assistant Secretary shall have the following       responsibilities:

(1) Promote the stability and resilience of critical supply       chains and critical and emerging technologies that strengthen       the national security of the United States.

(2) Lead the Working Group established pursuant to section       3 and consult covered nongovernmental representatives,       industry, institutions of higher education, and State and       local governments in order to--

(A) promote resilient critical supply chains; and

(B) identify, prepare for, and respond to supply chain       shocks to--

(i) critical industries;

(ii) critical supply chains; and

(iii) critical and emerging technologies.

(3) Encourage the growth and competitiveness of United       States production and manufacturing in the United States of       emerging technologies.

(4) Assess the resilience, diversity, and strength of       critical supply chains and critical and emerging       technologies.

(5) In consultation with the Secretary of State and the       United States Trade Representative, support the availability       of critical goods from domestic manufacturers, domestic       enterprises, and manufacturing operations in countries that       are allies or key international partner nations.

(6) Assist the Federal Government in preparing for and       responding to supply chain shocks to critical supply chains,       including by improving flexible manufacturing capacities and       capabilities in the United States.

(7) Consistent with United States obligations under       international agreements, encourage and incentivize the       reduced reliance of domestic enterprises and domestic       manufacturers on critical goods from countries that are       described in section 7(2)(B).

(8) Encourage the relocation of manufacturing facilities       that manufacture critical goods from countries that are       described in section 7(2)(B) to the United States and       countries that are allies or key international partner       nations to strengthen the resilience, diversity, and strength       of critical supply chains.       SEC. 3. CRITICAL SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE WORKING GROUP.

(a) Establishment.--Not later than 120 days after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall       establish a working group to be known as the ``Supply Chain       Resilience Working Group'' (in this title referred to as the       ``Working Group'') composed of the Federal agencies that rely       upon the Industry and Analysis Business unit analysis,       including agencies enumerated in subsection (c).

(b) Activities.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall       carry out the following activities:

(1) In consultation with the Working Group--

(A) assessing, mapping, and modeling critical supply       chains, including for critical and emerging technologies,       which may include--

(i) modeling the impact of supply chain shocks on critical       industries (including for critical and emerging       technologies), and critical supply chains;

(ii) assessing the demand for and supply of critical goods,       production equipment, and manufacturing technology needed for       critical supply chains, including critical goods, production       equipment, and manufacturing technology obtained by or       purchased from a person outside of the United States or       imported into the United States; and

(iii) assessing manufacturing, warehousing, transportation,       and distribution related to critical supply chains;

(B) identifying high priority gaps and vulnerabilities in       critical supply chains and critical industries (including       critical industries for critical and emerging technologies)       that--

(i) exist as of the date of the enactment of this Act; or

(ii) are anticipated to occur after the date of the       enactment of this Act;

(C) identifying potential supply chain shocks to a critical       supply chain that may disrupt, strain, or eliminate the       critical supply chain;

(D) evaluating the capability and capacity of domestic       manufacturers or manufacturers located in countries that are       allies or key international partner nations to serve as       sources for critical goods, production equipment, or       manufacturing technology needed in critical supply chains;

(E) evaluating the effect on market stability that may       result from the disruption, strain, or elimination of a       critical supply chain;

(F) evaluating the state of the manufacturing workforce,       including by--

(i) identifying the needs of domestic manufacturers; and

(ii) identifying opportunities to create high-quality       manufacturing jobs; and

(G) identifying and describing necessary tools, including       commercially available risk assessment tools, that leverage       data and industry expertise to provide insights into critical       supply chain vulnerabilities, including how such tools       fulfill the requirements described in subparagraphs (A)       through (F).

(2) In consultation with State and local governments, the       Working Group, and (as appropriate) countries that are allies       or key international partner nations--

(A) identifying opportunities to reduce gaps and       vulnerabilities in critical supply chains and critical       industries;

(B) encouraging consultation between the Federal       Government, industry, covered nongovernmental       representatives, institutions of higher education, and State       and local governments to--

(i) better respond to supply chain shocks to critical       supply chains and critical industries (including critical       industries for emerging technologies); and

(ii) coordinate response efforts to supply chain shocks;

(C) encouraging consultation between the Federal Government       and the governments of countries that are allies or key       international partner nations;

(D) identifying opportunities to build the capacity of the       United States in critical supply chains, critical industries,       and emerging technologies;

(E) identifying opportunities to build the capacity of       countries that are allies or key international partner       nations in critical industries (including critical industries       for emerging technologies) and critical supply chains; and

(F) developing and assessing contingency plans and       coordination mechanisms to improve the response of critical       supply chains and critical industries to supply chain shocks.

(c) Working Group Membership.--The Working Group shall       include a representative from each Federal agency that relies       on the analysis of the Industry and Analysis business unit,       including--

(1) the Department of State;

(2) the Department of Defense;

(3) the Department of Homeland Security;

(4) the Department of Transportation;

(5) the Department of Energy;

(6) the Department of Agriculture;

(7) the Department of the Interior;

(8) the Department of Health and Human Services;

(9) the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;       and

(10) the Small Business Administration.

(d) Designations.--The Assistant Secretary shall--

(1) not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment       of this Act, designate--

(A) critical industries;

(B) critical supply chains; and

(C) critical goods;

(2) provide for a period of public comment and review in       carrying out paragraph (1); and

(3) update the designations made pursuant to paragraph (1)       not less frequently than once every 4 years, including       designations for technologies that are not described in       section 7(12)(B) that the Assistant Secretary considers       necessary.

(e) Implementation Report.--Not later than 1 year after the       date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary       shall submit to the relevant committees of Congress a report       that--

(1) details supply chain activities, including applicable       activities described in subsection (b) and responsibilities       described in section 2, that the Assistant Secretary has       conducted over the past year;

(2) describes supply chain data collected, retained, and       analyzed by the Assistant Secretary over the past year;

(3) identifies and describes necessary tools, including       commercially available risk assessment tools, that leverage       data and industry expertise to provide insights into critical       supply chain vulnerabilities, including how such tools       fulfill each responsibility described in subsection (b);

(4) identifies and describes all Federal agencies with       authorities or responsibilities described in subsection (b);       and

(5) identifies Federal agencies, programs, and bureaus with       duplicative purposes to fulfill any of the authorities or       responsibilities described in subsection (b).

(f) National Strategy and Review on Critical Supply Chain       Resiliency and Manufacturing in the United States.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the       Assistant Secretary, in consultation with the Working Group,       covered nongovernmental representatives, industries,       institutions of higher education, and State and local       governments, shall submit to the relevant committees of       Congress a report that--

(A) identifies--

(i) critical infrastructure that may assist in fulfilling       the responsibilities described in section 2;

(ii) critical and emerging technologies that may assist in       fulfilling the responsibilities described in section 2,       including such technologies that may be critical to       addressing preparedness, weaknesses, and vulnerabilities       relating to critical supply chains;

(iii) critical industries, critical supply chains, and       critical goods designated pursuant to subsection (d);

(iv) other supplies and services that are critical to the       crisis preparedness of the United States;

(v) substitutes for critical goods, production equipment,       and manufacturing technology;

(vi) methods and technologies, including blockchain       technology, distributed ledger technology, and other critical       and emerging technologies, as appropriate, for the       authentication and traceability of critical goods; and

(vii) countries that are allies or key international       partner nations;

(B) describes the matters identified and evaluated under       subsection (b)(1), including--

(i) the manufacturing base, critical supply chains, and       emerging technologies in the United States, including the       manufacturing base and critical supply chains for--

(I) critical goods;

(II) production equipment; and

(III) manufacturing technology; and

(ii) the ability of the United States to--

(I) maintain readiness with respect to preparing for and       responding to supply chain shocks; and

(II) in response to a supply chain shock--

(aa) surge production in critical industries;

(bb) surge production of critical goods and production       equipment; and

(cc) maintain access to critical goods, production       equipment, and manufacturing technology;

(C) assesses and describes--

(i) the demand and supply of critical goods, production       equipment, and manufacturing technology;

(ii) the production of critical goods, production       equipment, and manufacturing technology by domestic       manufacturers;

(iii) the capability and capacity of domestic manufacturers       and manufacturers in countries that are allies or key       international partner nations to manufacture critical goods,       production equipment, and manufacturing technology; and

(iv) how supply chain shocks could affect rural, Tribal,       and underserved communities;

(D) identifies threats and supply chain shocks that may       disrupt, strain, or eliminate critical supply chains,       critical goods, and critical industries (including critical       industries for emerging technologies);

(E) with regard to any threat identified under subparagraph       (D), lists any threat or supply chain shock that may       originate from a country, or a company or individual from a       country, that is described in section 7(2)(B);

(F) assesses--

(i) the resilience and capacity of the manufacturing base,       critical supply chains, and workforce of the United States       and countries that are allies or key international partner       nations that can sustain critical industries (including       critical industries for emerging technologies) through a       supply chain shock; and

(ii) the effect innovation has on domestic manufacturers;

(G) assesses the flexible manufacturing capacity and       capability available in the United States in the case of a       supply chain shock; and

(H) develops a strategy for the Department of Commerce to       support the resilience, diversity, and strength of critical       supply chains and critical and emerging technologies to--

(i) support sufficient access to critical goods by       mitigating vulnerabilities in critical supply chains,       including critical supply chains concentrated in countries       that are described in section 7(2)(B);

(ii) consult with other relevant agencies to assist       countries that are allies or key international partner       nations in building capacity for manufacturing critical       goods;

(iii) recover from supply chain shocks;

(iv) identify, in consultation with the Working Group and       other relevant agencies, actions relating to critical supply       chains or emerging technologies that the United States may       take to improve responses to supply chain shocks;

(v) protect against supply chain shocks relating to       critical supply chains from countries that are described in       section 7(2)(B); and

(vi) make specific recommendations to implement the       strategy under this section and improve the security and       resiliency of manufacturing capacity and supply chains for       critical industries (including critical industries for       emerging technologies) by--

(I) developing long-term strategies;

(II) increasing visibility into the networks and       capabilities of domestic manufacturers and suppliers of       domestic manufacturers;

(III) identifying and mitigating risks, including--

(aa) significant vulnerabilities to supply chain shocks;       and

(bb) exposure to gaps and vulnerabilities in domestic       capacity or capabilities and sources of imports needed to       sustain critical industries (including critical industries       for emerging technologies) or critical supply chains;

(IV) identifying opportunities to reuse and recycle       critical goods, including raw materials, to increase       resilient critical supply chains;

(V) consulting with countries that are allies or key       international partner nations on--

(aa) sourcing critical goods, production equipment, and       manufacturing technology; and

(bb) developing, sustaining, and expanding production and       availability of critical goods, production equipment, and       manufacturing technology during a supply chain shock; and

(VI) providing guidance to other relevant agencies with       respect to critical goods, supply chains, and critical       industries (including critical industries for emerging       technologies) that should be prioritized to support United       States leadership in the deployment of such technologies.

(2) Prohibition.--The report submitted pursuant to       paragraph (1) may not include--

(A) critical supply chain information that is not       aggregated;

(B) confidential business information of a private sector       entity; or

(C) classified information.

(3) Form.--The report submitted pursuant to paragraph (1),       and any update submitted thereafter, shall be submitted to       the relevant committees of Congress in unclassified form and       may include a classified annex.

(4) Public comment.--The Assistant Secretary shall provide       for a period of public comment and review in developing the       report submitted pursuant to paragraph (1).

(g) Consultation.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall       enter into an agreement with the head of any relevant agency       to obtain any information, data, or assistance that the       Assistant Secretary determines necessary to conduct the       activities described in subsection (b).

(h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be       construed to require any private entity--

(1) to share information with the Secretary or Assistant       Secretary;

(2) to request assistance from the Secretary or Assistant       Secretary; or

(3) to implement any measure or recommendation suggested by       the Secretary or Assistant Secretary in response to a request       by the private entity.

(i) Protection of Voluntarily Shared Critical Supply Chain       Information.--

(1) Protection.--

(A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, critical supply chain information (including the       identity of the submitting person or entity) that is       voluntarily submitted under this section to the Department of       Commerce for use by the Department for purposes of this       section, when accompanied by an express statement described       in subparagraph (B)--

(i) shall be exempt from disclosure under section 552(b)(3)       of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the       ``Freedom of Information Act'');

(ii) is not subject to any agency rules or judicial       doctrine regarding ex parte communications with a decision-      making official;

(iii) may not, without the written consent of the person or       entity submitting such information, be used directly by the       Department of Commerce, any other Federal, State, or local       authority, or any third party, in any civil action arising       under Federal or State law if such information is submitted       in good faith;

(iv) may not, without the written consent of the person or       entity submitting such information, be used or disclosed by       any officer or employee of the United States for purposes       other than the purposes of this section, except--

(I) in furtherance of an investigation or the prosecution       of a criminal act; or

(II) when disclosure of the information would be--

(aa) to either House of Congress, or to the extent of       matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee       thereof, any joint committee thereof, or any subcommittee of       any such joint committee; or

(bb) to the Comptroller General of the United States, or       any authorized representative of the Comptroller General, in       the course of the performance of the duties of the Government       Accountability Office;

(v) may not, if provided to a State or local government or       government agency--

(I) be made available pursuant to any State or local law       requiring disclosure of information or records;

(II) otherwise be disclosed or distributed to any party by       such State or local government or government agency without       the written consent of the person or entity submitting such       information; or

(III) be used other than for the purpose of carrying out       this section, or in furtherance of an investigation or the       prosecution of a criminal act; and

(vi) does not constitute a waiver of any applicable       privilege or protection provided under law, such as trade       secret protection.

(B) Express statement.--The express statement described in       this subparagraph, with respect to information or records,       is--

(i) in the case of written information or records, a       written marking on the information or records substantially       similar to the following: ``This information is voluntarily       submitted to the Federal Government in expectation of       protection from disclosure as provided by the provisions of       the Promoting Resilient Supply Chains Act of 2025.''; or

(ii) in the case of oral information, a written statement       similar to the statement described in clause (i) submitted       within a reasonable period following the oral communication.

(2) Limitation.--No communication of critical supply chain       information to the Department of Commerce made pursuant to       this section may be considered to be an action subject to the       requirements of chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code.

(3) Independently obtained information.--Nothing in this       subsection may be construed to limit or otherwise affect the       ability of a State, local, or Federal Government entity,       agency, or authority, or any third party, under applicable       law to obtain critical supply chain information in a manner       not covered by paragraph (1), including any information       lawfully and properly disclosed generally or broadly to the       public and to use such information in any manner permitted by       law. For purposes of this subsection, a permissible use of       independently obtained information includes the disclosure of       such information under section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United       States Code.

(4) Treatment of voluntary submittal of information.--The       voluntary submittal to the Department of Commerce of       information or records that are protected from disclosure by       this section may not be construed to constitute compliance       with any requirement to submit such information to an agency       under any other provision of law.

(5) Inapplicability to semiconductor incentive program.--      This subsection does not apply to the voluntary submission of       critical supply chain information in an application for       Federal financial assistance under section 9902 of the       William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization       Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283).       SEC. 4. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE CAPABILITY ASSESSMENT.

(a) Report Required.--The Secretary shall produce a       report--

(1) identifying the duties, responsibilities, resources,       programs, and expertise within the offices and bureaus of the       Department of Commerce relevant to critical supply chain       resilience and manufacturing innovation;

(2) identifying and assessing the purpose, legal authority,       effectiveness, efficiency, and limitations of each office or       bureau identified under paragraph (1); and

(3) providing recommendations to enhance the activities       related to critical supply chain resilience and manufacturing       innovation of the Department of Commerce, including--

(A) improving the effectiveness, efficiency, and impact of       the offices and bureaus identified under paragraph (1);

(B) coordinating across offices and bureaus identified       under paragraph (1); and

(C) consulting with agencies implementing similar       activities related to critical supply chain resilience and       manufacturing innovation.

(b) Submission of Report.--Not later than 2 years after the       date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit       to the relevant committees of Congress the report required by       subsection (a), along with a strategy to implement, as       appropriate and as determined by the Secretary, the       recommendations contained in the report.       SEC. 5. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS.

No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to       carry out this title.       SEC. 6. SUNSET.

This title and all requirements, responsibilities, and       obligations under this title shall terminate on the date that       is 10 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.       SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

In this title:

(1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given that       term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.

(2) Ally or key international partner nation.--The term       ``ally or key international partner nation''--

(A) means a country that is critical to addressing critical       supply chain weaknesses and vulnerabilities; and

(B) does not include--

(i) a country that poses a significant risk to the national       security or economic security of the United States; or

(ii) a country that is described in section 503(b) of the       RANSOMWARE Act (title V of division BB of the Consolidated       Appropriations Act, 2023; Public Law 117-328; 136 Stat.       5564).

(3) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary''       means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce assigned by the       Secretary to direct the office of Industry and Analysis.

(4) Covered nongovernmental representative.--The term       ``covered nongovernmental representative'' means a       representative as specified in the second sentence of section       135(b)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2155(b)(1)),       except that such term does not include a representative of a       non-Federal government.

(5) Critical good.--The term ``critical good'' means any       raw, in process, or manufactured material (including any       mineral, metal, or advanced processed material), article,       commodity, supply, product, or item for which an absence of       supply would have a debilitating impact on--

(A) the national security or economic security of the       United States; and

(B) either--

(i) critical infrastructure; or

(ii) an emerging technology.

(6) Critical industry.--The term ``critical industry''       means an industry that--

(A) is critical for the national security or economic       security of the United States; and

(B) produces or procures a critical good.

(7) Critical infrastructure.--The term ``critical       infrastructure'' has the meaning given that term in section       1016 of the Critical Infrastructures Protection Act of 2001       (42 U.S.C. 5195c).

(8) Critical supply chain.--The term ``critical supply       chain'' means a supply chain for a critical good.

(9) Critical supply chain information.--The term ``critical       supply chain information'' means information that is not       customarily in the public domain and relates to--

(A) sustaining and adapting a critical supply chain during       a supply chain shock;

(B) critical supply chain risk mitigation and recovery       planning with respect to a supply chain shock, including any       planned or past assessment, projection, or estimate of a       vulnerability within the critical supply chain, including       testing, supplier network assessments, production       flexibility, supply chain risk evaluations, supply chain risk       management planning, or risk audits; or

(C) operational best practices, planning, and supplier       partnerships that enable enhanced resilience of a critical       supply chain during a supply chain shock, including response,       repair, recovery, reconstruction, insurance, or continuity.

(10) Domestic enterprise.--The term ``domestic enterprise''       means an enterprise that conducts business in the United       States and procures a critical good.

(11) Domestic manufacturer.--The term ``domestic       manufacturer'' means a business that conducts in the United       States the research and development, engineering, or       production activities necessary for manufacturing a critical       good.

(12) Emerging technology.--The term ``emerging technology''       means a technology that is critical for the national security       or economic security of the United States, including the       following:

(A) Technologies included in the American COMPETE Act       (title XV of division FF of the Consolidated Appropriations       Act, 2021; Public Law 116-260; 134 Stat. 3276).

(B) The following technologies:

(i) Artificial intelligence.

(ii) Automated vehicles and unmanned delivery systems.

(iii) Blockchain and other distributed ledger, data       storage, data management, and cybersecurity technologies.

(iv) Quantum computing and quantum sensing.

(v) Additive manufacturing.

(vi) Advanced manufacturing and the Internet of Things.

(vii) Nano technology.

(viii) Robotics.

(ix) Microelectronics, optical fiber ray, and high       performance and advanced computer hardware and software.

(x) Semiconductors.

(xi) Advanced materials science, including composition 2D,       other next generation materials, and related manufacturing       technologies.

(13) Institution of higher education.--The term       ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given       that term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965       (20 U.S.C. 1001).

(14) Manufacture.--The term ``manufacture''--

(A) means any activity that is necessary for the       development, production, processing, distribution, or       delivery of any raw, in process, or manufactured material       (including any mineral, metal, and advanced processed       material), article, commodity, supply, product, critical       good, or item of supply; and

(B) does not include software unrelated to the       manufacturing process.

(15) Manufacturing technology.--The term ``manufacturing       technology'' means a technology that is necessary for the       manufacturing of a critical good.

(16) Production equipment.--The term ``production       equipment'' means any component, subsystem, system,       equipment, tooling, accessory, part, or assembly necessary       for the manufacturing of a critical good.

(17) Relevant committees of congress.--The term ``relevant       committees of Congress'' means the following:

(A) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation       of the Senate.

(B) The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives.

(18) Resilient critical supply chain.--The term ``resilient       critical supply chain'' means a critical supply chain that--

(A) ensures that the United States can sustain critical       industry, including emerging technologies, production,       critical supply chains, services, and access to critical       goods, production equipment, and manufacturing technology       during a supply chain shock; and

(B) has key components of resilience that include--

(i) effective private sector risk management and mitigation       planning to sustain critical supply chains and supplier       networks during a supply chain shock; and

(ii) minimized or managed exposure to a supply chain shock.

(19) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of Commerce.

(20) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several       States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth,       territory, or possession of the United States, and each       federally recognized Indian Tribe.

(21) Supply chain shock.--The term ``supply chain shock''--

(A) means an event causing severe or serious disruption to       normal operations or capacity in a supply chain; and

(B) includes--

(i) a natural disaster;

(ii) a pandemic;

(iii) a biological threat;

(iv) a cyber attack;

(v) a geopolitical conflict;

(vi) a terrorist or geopolitical attack;

(vii) a trade disruption caused by--

(I) a country described in paragraph (2)(B); or

(II) an entity or an individual subject to the jurisdiction       of such a country; and

(viii) an event for which the President declares a major       disaster or an emergency under section 401 or 501,       respectively, of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and       Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170; 42 U.S.C. 5191).

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2444, the  Promoting Resilient Supply Chains Act of 2025, led by the gentleman  from Michigan (Mr. James), my good friend and a very effective Member  of Congress.

I thank my colleagues, Representative James, Representative Houchin,  Representative Dingell, who is now the ranking member at this  particular time, and Representative Kelly of Illinois for their  bipartisan legislation.

During the pandemic, our country saw all too well the effects that  weak supply chains can have on businesses and the American people. It  is important that we, as a country, better prevent and mitigate  insecurities within our supply chains to better protect our economic  and national security.

This legislation is paramount to protecting such American security.  By mapping and monitoring our supply chains and mitigating future  vulnerabilities, we will also secure our global leadership in the  advancement and development of emerging technologies.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this  particular bill, H.R.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, in closing, again, I commend  Representative James for his great work on this particular bill. It is  very necessary.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on the bill, obviously, and I  yield back the balance of my time.