Recognizing Coast Guard Auxiliary Clearwater Flotilla 11-1's 75th Anniversary


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Coast Guard  Auxiliary Clearwater Flotilla 11-1's 75th Anniversary. The U.S. Coast  Guard Auxiliary was established by Congress to support the Coast Guard  with its boat safety mission. Clearwater Flotilla 11-1's service to the  Clearwater area predates the Coast Guard's presence in the city. Today,  though, the Auxiliary provides direct and continuing support to Coast  Guard Air Station Clearwater and to Coast Guard Station Sand Key. This  June, the Clearwater Flotilla 11-1, celebrates its 75th anniversary of  service to the boating public throughout the Tampa Bay area. The Coast  Guard Auxiliary and Flotilla 11-1 provide invaluable support to the  active-duty Coast Guard through a variety of non-law enforcement  programs. These include search and rescue missions, marine  environmental patrols, youth programs, public education and safety  patrols. Additionally, their missions include search and rescue ``call  outs'', back up marine radio coverage and near short patrols as part of  the America's Waterway Watch Program. As the Coast Guard's homeland and  national security responsibilities continue to expand, the men and  women of the Auxiliary have stepped up to increase their port security  patrols to provide for the defense of our Nation's and in our case  Florida's coastline and waterways.

Last year, the Flotilla 11-1 members volunteered more than 9,100  hours in support of the Coast Guard. The group conducted ten boating  safety education classes with more than 200 graduates, including over  100 children ranging from kindergarten to fifth grade. The group also  performed almost 150 Vessel Safety Checks to ensure recreational  boaters have all the safety gear they need to be legal and safe and  conducted more than 175 Recreational Boating Safety Program Visits to  boat equipment stores, marinas, and harborages to improve public  safety. Flotilla 11-1 Clearwater operates under the leadership of Karen  Miller, Commander, and Betsy Scott, Vice-Commander. The Flotilla 11-1's  officers include: Jeff Otto--Communication Services, Debbie Mallory-- Finance, Steve Bushnell-Fowler--Human Resources, Karen Miller-- Information Services, Public Affairs, and Public Education, Joe  Garisto--Materials, Mavrick Putnam--Marine Safety and Environmental  Protection, Lisa Repetto--Publications and Recreational Boating Safety  Program Visitations, Gerard Gaudry--Navigation Systems,  Tim Dolan--Operations and Rescue and Survival Systems, Mark Kolupa-- Secretary/Records, and Andre Skoinezny--Vessel Examinations. It is my  hope that my colleagues will join me in thanking the men and women of  Clearwater Coast Guard Auxiliary Flotilla 11-1 for their 75 years of  service to our community and for a job well done.