Recognizing Dean Lancaster


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Mr. Dean Lancaster has made as a volunteer with the  Hernando County School System. Mr. Lancaster offered his services as an  announcer for high school basketball games. Coach Kupcik decided to  allow him to announce at an upcoming game and had no idea what to  expect. When Mr. Lancaster arrived to announce his first game, he came  early, brought all his fancy equipment, and got to work setting up.  That night, he blew everyone away and bought a real, college-like feel  to the game. He was prepared and professional, enthusiastic and  exciting. He brought music, catchphrases, and announcing on the call-- the whole nine yards. All night long people were asking, ``where did  this guy come from?'', ``he is amazing!'', ``Can he come to every  game?''. Coach Kupcik told him, ``You're hired!'' That day, and every  day moving forward, he refused payment for his services. Mr. Lancaster  always says it's his way of giving back to the community. Since his  ``tryout'', Mr. Lancaster has offered his talents, professionalism, and  enthusiasm to every home Boys Basketball game at Springstead High  School. Over the years, he has agreed to do the same for every home  Varsity Football and Baseball game as well. Because he has been so  popular and because he brings so much to the events he is announcing,  Mr. Lancaster has also been requested to announce at other big events  at Springstead, such as senior nights, their annual cheer competition  and during the final matches of the historic Corey Hill Memorial  Wrestling Tournament. As an Athletic Director, Coach Kupcik shares that  having a consistent announcer locked in is always a plus. It's one less  thing to worry about. But having a consistent, amazing, professional- level announcer that transforms a relatively meaningless Tuesday night  baseball or basketball game into a must-go-to, college like event for  fans and players alike is truly a blessing. Mr. Lancaster is one of a  kind, and is now a true part of what Springstead Athletics is, and  forever an Eagle.

It is clear Dean Lancaster has made a profoundly positive impact on  our community, and I am grateful for his service. May we all strive to  serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.