Recognizing Mary ``adams'' Adamczewski


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Mary ``Adams'' Adamczewski has made to our community  as a volunteer with People Helping People (PHP) as its Treasurer of the  Board of Directors since 2016. Her budgeting and accounting skills  alone make her a wonderful addition to PHP, but she brings so much  more. Mary's heart for helping those who are hungry is huge. She is at  PHP's HELP Center nearly every day it's open, cooking, preparing, and  serving food to the thousands of neighbors the organization feeds each  year. This woman can make a meal out of typical pantry items that  tastes gourmet. In addition to weekdays, you can count on Mary to be at  the facility almost every Sunday, along with a loyal team of other  volunteers, ensuring those that are unhoused or unable to afford much  food receive a wonderful, hot meal. In addition to those who enjoy the  sit-down meals on Sunday, she makes sure that two families with a  combined total of nearly two dozen children also receive a nutritious  and delicious Sunday meal. Because of the length of time she's been  with PHP and her deep involvement with PHP's mission, Mary also serves  as an ``unofficial'' historian. Mary digs in with whatever needs to be  done, even making the weekly run to the Recycling Center with the  recyclables accumulated at PHP. And there's more. If a client needs a  haircut, Mary brings her electric razor, and in no time, someone has a  fresh new look. One of PHP's long-time clients was recently  hospitalized. He had no family but he and Mary had a special  relationship, and he considered her his ``family''. Mary was the one to  visit him in his final days and made sure that he was well taken care  of to the end. Another gentleman is not only unhoused, but has  Huntington's Disease. Mary assists him with making sure he always has  food and other necessities, and takes him to his medical appointments.  Her kindness and energy knows no bounds. She is respected by everyone  at PHP and wears so many different hats. Mary does all this with the  support of her loving family.

It is clear Mary ``Adams'' Adamczewski has made a profoundly positive  impact on our community, and I am grateful for her service. May we all  strive to serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.