Recognizing Kathy Logue


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Kathy Logue has made through her volunteerism at Bay  Area Legal Services. After serving in the U.S. Army, Lt. Col. Kathy  Logue began her career as an elementary school teacher in Chicago. A  lifelong learner, she pursued her legal education at Chicago-Kent  College of Law, part of the Illinois Institute of Technology, where she  earned her law degree. Kathy was subsequently admitted to the Illinois  Bar, practicing law for 39 years before relocating to Florida, where  she joined the Florida Bar in 2009 and continued her legal career for  an additional 14 years. Kathy has since retired from practicing law but  remains active in her donation of time and legal expertise to the  community. She is an active member of both the Illinois and Florida  bars and remains in the retired reserves of the U.S. Army, ready to  serve her country again if needed. Throughout her journey, Kathy has  remained deeply committed to education and community service. Drawing  on her experiences as a teacher, she has dedicated her retirement years  to volunteering and substitute teaching in local schools. Additionally,  Kathy has been actively involved with the New Port Richey VA Center,  offering her time weekly to support veterans. She also volunteers with  the Salvation Army of Pasco County's Domestic Violence Program each  week, helping survivors navigate the legal process by reviewing and  drafting petitions for Injunctions for Protection at the West Pasco  Judicial Center. Kathy acts as a link between these clients in need and  Bay Area Legal Services. She provides written referrals and assists in  connecting the client with vital legal services and with follow-up to  ensure victims are never alone in what can be a daunting process of  fleeing abuse and obtaining protections. In addition to her dedication  to volunteering with the VA and DV programs, Kathy is highly involved  in the West Pasco Bar Association and has put her legal skills to use  by participating in the West Pasco Bar Association's ``Ask a Lawyer''  program. In this role, she engaged with the public on law-related  questions, providing invaluable support to individuals, families, and  businesses. Kathy sponsors a legal aid paralegal membership for the  West Pasco Bar Association and has worked to expand membership for  legal services staff. Kathy Logue's dedication, compassion, and service  to her country, her community, and countless clients are truly  inspiring. She is undeniably deserving of recognition for her  outstanding pro bono volunteer work. Over the past ten years, in  retirement from her full time professional life, Kathy has provided  over 400 hours of pro bono service to her community, sometimes dealing  with personal health challenges along the way.

It is clear Lt. Colonel Kathy Logue has made a profoundly positive  impact on our community, and I am grateful for her service. May we all  strive to serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.