Recognizing Ann Wilkinson


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Ann Wilkinson has made through her work with Seniors  in Service--Retired Senior Volunteer Program in Pasco County. This  group of 245 volunteers, spread across Pasco County, work tirelessly  with a shared goal of making their community shine, dedicating 24,210  hours to addressing critical needs in food support, companionship,  disaster relief, and mentorship. By establishing partnerships with  25 local Pasco County organizations, RSVP Pasco connects volunteers to  critical areas of need. Volunteers support food pantries, like Our Lady  Queen of Peace, St. Vincent DePaul and Shady Hills Mission Chapel. They  work to ensure families in high-need areas receive essential resources.  At Good Samaritan Health Clinic, RSVP volunteers assist with patient  intake and front desk duties, while at BayCare, they recruit  participants for the Health Buddies program to enhance senior well- being. Recently, RSVP Pasco partnered with Solo Moms to empower single  mothers and with the American Cancer Society to help patients access  life-saving treatments. Each partnership reflects the program's  commitment to addressing diverse community challenges with tailored  support. Led by Ann, the leadership team within RSVP Pasco has also  been a driving force behind its success. Ambassadors have taken on  vital roles in recruitment, outreach, and event planning. When the  CARES Senior Center closure displaced 25 volunteers, RSVP Pasco worked  diligently to connect them with new opportunities, ensuring their  passion for service was not lost. Similarly, at Grace's Food Pantry,  Ambassadors stepped in to address staffing shortages, ensuring  continuity in service. Their proactive approach has strengthened the  program's ability to adapt and grow. RSVP Pasco demonstrates the  transformative power of volunteerism. From hurricane recovery to  improving healthcare and food security, the program embodies  resilience, compassion, and connection. This remarkable program truly  exemplifies the spirit of service and is a shining example of what can  be achieved when a community comes together to make a difference.

It is clear Ann Wilkinson has made a profoundly positive impact on  our community, and I am grateful for her service. May we all strive to  serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.