Recognizing Marlene Law


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions that Ms. Marlene Law has made to our community through  her work over three decades to promote opportunities for youth with the  UF/IFAS Extension Citrus County 4-H program. Her tireless efforts have  been mostly behind the scenes. Marlene supports the core values of 4-H,  to develop citizenship, leadership, responsibility, and life skills in  young people through experiential learning programs. She is a strong  role model for the youth in our community. As a long-time 4-H volunteer  and leader of the Ropin' the Wind 4-H club, she has sought to identify  needs in the community, set goals, work in partnership with the 4-H  Agent and County Extension office, and advance educational programs for  youth. In 1995, with a mission to ``Make the Best Better'', Marlene Law  was a founding member of the Citrus County 4-H Foundation. Her actions  planned and produced the 1st Citrus Stampede Rodeo to benefit the  Citrus County 4-H program, Past Foundation president, Hal Porter  recounted ``We had a dream, then . . . to raise $100,000 for our county  4-H program.'' As the Citrus Stampede Rodeo Chairwoman, Marlene Law,  has raised over $380,000 for the countywide 4-H youth development  program. This year, the 29th Annual Citrus Stampede Rodeo will continue  to support youth in our community. Raising money for the local 4-H  program is a worthy endeavor, but the true impact of those dollars are  the opportunities they open for young people engaged in Citrus County  4-H programs. Marlene's support and advocacy for youth development  provides vital resources for school enrichment programs, residential  camping programs, adult volunteer training, teen workforce development,  civic engagement, and graduating senior and 4-H alumni scholarships.

It is clear that Marlene Law has made a profoundly positive impact on  our community, and I am grateful for her service. May we all strive to  serve our communities with the same dedication and humility.