Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 973) to establish consumer standards for lithium-ion  batteries.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 973

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Setting Consumer Standards       for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act''.       SEC. 2. CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY STANDARD FOR CERTAIN                     BATTERIES.

(a) Consumer Product Safety Standard Required.--Not later       than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,       the Consumer Product Safety Commission (referred to in this       section as the ``Commission'') shall promulgate, under       section 553 of title 5, United States Code, the provisions of       ANSI/CAN/UL 2271-Standard for Batteries for Use in Light       Electric Vehicle Applications, ANSI/CAN/UL 2849-Standard for       Safety for Electrical Systems for eBikes, and ANSI/CA/UL       2272-Standard for Electrical Systems for Personal E-Mobility       Devices, as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act,       as final consumer product safety standards.

(b) Consumer Product Safety Commission Determination of       Scope.--In adopting the standards under subsection (a), the       Commission shall limit the application of such standards to       consumer products as defined in section 3(a)(5) of the       Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052(a)(5)).

(c) Revision of Voluntary Standards.--

(1) Notice to commission.--If the provisions of ANSI/CAN/UL       2271-Standard for Batteries for Use in Light Electric Vehicle       Applications, ANSI/CAN/UL 2849-Standard for Safety for       Electrical Systems for eBikes, or ANSI/CAN/UL 2272-Standard       for Electrical Systems for Personal E-Mobility Devices, are       revised following the enactment of this Act, the organization       that revised the requirements of such standard shall notify       the Commission after the final approval of the revision.

(2) Treatment of revision.--The revised voluntary standard       shall be considered to be a consumer product safety standard       issued by the Commission under section 9 of the Consumer       Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058), effective 180 days after       the date on which the organization notifies the Commission       (or such later date specified by the Commission in the       Federal Register) unless, within 90 days after receiving that       notice, the Commission notifies the organization that it has       determined that the proposed revision, in whole or in part,       does not improve the safety of the consumer product covered       by the standard and that the Commission is retaining the       existing consumer product safety standard.

(d) Treatment of Standard.--A standard promulgated under       this section, including a revision of such standard adopted       by the Commission, shall be treated as a consumer product       safety rule promulgated under section 9 of the Consumer       Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058).

(e) Report to Congress.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the       Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the       Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House       of Representatives, a report regarding fires, explosions, and       other hazards relating to lithium-ion batteries used in       micromobility products during the period beginning on the       date of enactment of this Act and ending on the report date.

(2) Content.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall       describe, at a minimum--

(A) the source of the information that was provided to the       Commission regarding the fire, explosion, or other hazard;

(B) the make and model of the lithium-ion battery and       micromobility product that resulted in a fire, explosion, or       other hazard, if known;

(C) whether a lithium-ion battery involved in a fire,       explosion, or other hazard complied with the standard       required by this section, if known; and

(D) if known, the manufacturer and country of manufacture       of a lithium-ion battery that resulted in a fire, explosion,       or other hazard.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 973, the Setting  Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act, led by Representative  Torres.

H.R. 973 requires the Consumer Product Safety Commission to issue  consumer product safety standards for rechargeable lithium-ion  batteries used in micromobility devices, addressing the serious fire  hazards they pose.

Tragically, defective batteries, particularly those imported from  China, have already claimed too many lives.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Representative Torres,  Representative Langworthy, Representative Clarke, and Representative  Garbarino, for their bipartisan leadership to protect consumers and  first responders.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in favor of  H.R.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I encourage a ``yes'' vote, and I  congratulate Representative Torres and others for this great bill.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.