Youth Poisoning Protection Act


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1442) a bill to ban the sale of products with a high  concentration of sodium nitrate to individuals, and for other purposes,  as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1442

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This title may be cited as the ``Youth Poisoning Protection       Act''.       SEC. 2. BANNING OF PRODUCTS CONTAINING A HIGH CONCENTRATION                     OF SODIUM NITRITE.

(a) In General.--Any consumer product containing a high       concentration of sodium nitrite shall be considered to be a       banned hazardous product under section 8 of the Consumer       Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2057).

(b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be       construed to--

(1) prohibit any commercial or industrial purpose in which       high concentration sodium nitrite is not customarily produced       or distributed for sale to, or use or consumption by, or       enjoyment of, a consumer; and

(2) apply to high concentration sodium nitrite that meets       the definition of a drug, device, or cosmetic (as such terms       are defined in subsections (g), (h), and (i) of section 201       of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.       321(g), (h), and (i))), or food (as defined in section 201(f)       of such Act (21 U.S.C. 321(f))), including poultry and       poultry products (as such terms are defined in subsections       (e) and (f) of section 4 of the Poultry       Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 453(e)and (f))), meat and       meat food products (as such terms are defined in section 1(j)       of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601(j))), and       eggs and egg products (as such terms are defined in section 4       of the Egg Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1033)).

(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:

(1) Consumer product.--The term ``consumer product'' has       the meaning given that term under section 3(a)(5) of the       Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052(a)(5)).

(2) High concentration of sodium nitrite.--The term ``high       concentration of sodium nitrite'' means a concentration of 10       or more percent by weight of sodium nitrite.

(d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect 90 days       after the date of enactment of this Act.

I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1442, the Youth Poisoning  Protection Act, led by Representative Trahan.

Since 2017, the United States has experienced a troubling increase in  self-poisoning cases involving sodium nitrite, many of which stem from  easy online access to high-concentration products.

This bill aims to confront that threat by implementing a narrowly  focused prohibition on the sale of consumer products containing sodium  nitrite at concentrations above 10 percent.

I thank Representative Trahan for her strong bipartisan leadership on  this piece of legislation. I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in  favor of H.R.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared to close after Mr. Pallone.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on  this particular bill. Again, I commend Representatives Trahan and  Carey. I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.