Colorado Delegation Shows Support for Polis Administration's Comments on Proposed Hemp Rule


Earlier today, Gov. Jared Polis and the Colorado Department of Agriculture (CDA), in partnership with Attorney General Phil Weiser, submitted the State's official response to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) interim final rule related to the establishment of a Domestic Hemp Production Program. Members of Colorado's Congressional delegation voiced their support for the submitted comments on the USDA's interim final hemp rule. 

 

Senator Michael Bennet

"Since 2014, Colorado has established itself as a leader in the hemp industry. As our state's hemp businesses continue to grow, it is critical the USDA establish a regulatory structure that allows our farmers to succeed and doesn't burden state regulators," said Senator Bennet. "As the USDA finalizes its new regulatory framework, we appreciate the opportunity to amplify the voices of Colorado's agriculture industry to ensure the final rules serve our hemp growers, processors, and laboratories."

 

Senate Cory Gardner 

"I thank Governor Polis, Senator Bennet, and our U.S. House of Representative colleagues for their partnership on this issue, and I look forward to working with them to ensure USDA's final hemp regulatory structure works for Colorado's hemp industry," said Senator Gardner.

 

Congresswoman Diana DeGette

"There are thousands of farmers growing hemp across our state and we need to make sure we're doing everything we can to help them succeed. The changes we are proposing will ensure that the Trump administration's new guidelines for this budding industry will allow it to continue to grow, not only here in Colorado, but elsewhere around the country as well," said Congresswoman DeGette. 

Congressman Ed Perlmutter

"We appreciate the support from Governor Polis to ensure Colorado's well-established hemp industry can continue to grow and thrive. It's important for hemp businesses in Colorado and across the country to have certainty and appropriate guidance when it comes to federal guidelines for the industry," said Congressman Perlmutter. 

Congressman Ken Buck 

"I'm encouraged to see the USDA's interim final hemp rule that sets up the building blocks for Colorado's surging hemp market. Eastern Colorado farmers are a crucial part of the hemp supply chain. We must ensure that this rule provides our farmers with the flexibility and certainty they need to establish long-term success while balancing public safety concerns," said Congressman Buck. 

 

Congressman Scott Tipton 

"Colorado's Third Congressional District is home to the nation's largest hemp processing facility and dozens of hemp farms. The future of the industry depends on greater regulatory certainty from the USDA and I am proud to have worked with Secretary Perdue and the Colorado delegation on developing sensible regulations that better meet the needs of hemp producers in Colorado."

 

Congressman Jason Crow

"Colorado has been a national leader in safely growing the hemp industry and has established itself as a state on the frontlines of innovation and economic development for hemp production. The proposed interim final rule, while an important first step, often stands at odds with Colorado's deep experience and knowledge of the industry and may very well hinder best practices for hemp development. The recommended changes laid forth by Governor Polis with the wide support of the delegation will go far in ensuring we support the hemp industry with the necessary guidelines and regulations," said Congressman Crow. 

 

Congressman Joe Neguse 

"Colorado is a leader in every step of the hemp supply chain, maintaining a careful balance of regulatory oversight and economic support that has allowed hemp processing and laboratory testing facilities in our state to thrive," said Congressman Joe Neguse. "Therefore, it is critical that the USDA establish a regulatory structure that allows our farmers to succeed."

See the letter of support sent to the USDA from the majority of Colorado's federal delegation.