Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BENNET. Madam President, when I was in the second grade--which I  did twice because I was dyslexic, so I don't know which year of the  second grade it was, but one of those 2 years--we were asked to line up  in order of whose family had been here the longest period of time and  whose family had been here the shortest period of time. 

  I turned out to be the answer to both of those questions. My father's  family went all the way back to the Mayflower, and my mom's family were  Polish Jews who survived the Holocaust. They didn't leave Warsaw  because my grandfather had a large family he didn't want to leave  behind. And in the event--everybody was killed in the war, except my  mom, her parents, and an aunt. They lived in Warsaw for 2 years after  the war. Then they went to Stockholm for a year. They went to  Mexico City for a year, of all places. And then they came to the United  States--the one place in the world they could rebuild their shattered  lives, and they did rebuild their shattered lives. My mom was the only  person in the family who could speak any English. She registered  herself in the New York City public schools. She graduated from Hunter  College High School. She went on to graduate from Wellesley College in  Massachusetts in one generation. My grandparents rebuilt the business  they had lost during the war. 

  I knew from them how important this symbol of America was to people  struggling all over the world. They had been through some of the worst  events in human history, and their joy of being Americans was  completely unadulterated. I have met many immigrants across this  country, and I still haven't met anybody with a stronger accent than my  grandparents had, and I have never met anybody who were greater  patriots than they were. They understood how important the idea of  America was, not because we were perfect--exactly the opposite of  that--because we were imperfect. But we lived in a free society that  was able to cure its imperfections with the hard work of our citizens  to make this country more democratic, more free, and more fair--a  country committed to the rule of law. Nobody was above the rule of law,  and nobody was treated unfairly by the law, even if you were an  immigrant to this country. 

  From my dad's example, I learned something really different. It might  interest some people around here to know he was a staffer in the Senate  for many years. I actually grew up coming here on Saturday mornings,  throwing paper airplanes around the hallways of the Dirksen Building  and Russell Building. 

  He worked here at a very different time in the Senate. He worked here  at a time when Republicans and Democrats worked together to uphold the  rule of law, to pass important legislation that was needed by the  American people to move our country forward, a time when Democrats and  Republicans went back home and said: I didn't get everything I wanted,  to be sure, but the 65 percent I did get is worth the bill we have, and  here is why the other side needed 35 percent. 

  Those days are completely gone in the U.S. Senate, and I grieve for  them. My dad passed away about a year ago. I know how disappointed he  would be about where we are, but there isn't anybody who can fix it,  except the 100 people who are here and, I suppose, the American people  for whom we ostensibly work. 

  In the last 10 years that I have been here, I have watched  politicians come to this floor and destroy the solemn responsibility we  have--the constitutional responsibility we have--to advise and consent  on judicial appointments, to turn that constitutional responsibility  into nothing more than a vicious partisan exercise. That hasn't been  done by the American people. That wasn't done by any other generation  of politicians who were in this place. It has been done by this  generation of politicians led by the Senator from Kentucky, the  majority leader of the Senate. 

  We have become a body that does nothing. We are an employment agency.  That is what we are. Seventy-five percent of the votes we took last  year were on appointments. We voted on 26 amendments last year--26--26.  In the world's greatest deliberative body, we passed eight amendments  in a year. Pathetic. We didn't consider any of the major issues the  American people are confronting in their lives, not a single one--10  years of townhalls with people saying to me: Michael, we are killing  ourselves, and we can't afford housing, healthcare, higher education,  early childhood education. We cannot save. We can't live a middle-class  life. We think our kids are going to live a more diminished life than  we do. 

  What does the U.S. Senate do? Cut taxes for rich people. We don't  have time to do anything else around here. And now, when we are the  only body on planet Earth charged with the responsibility of dealing  with the guilt or innocence of this President, we can't even bring  ourselves to have witnesses and evidence as part of a fair trial, even  when there are literally witnesses with direct knowledge of what the  President did practically banging on the door of the Senate saying: Let  me testify. 

  We are too lazy for that. The reality is, we are too broken for that.  We are too broken for that. And we have failed in our duty to the  American people. 

  Hamilton said in Federalist 65 that in an impeachment trial we were  the inquisitors for the people. The Senate--we would be the inquisitors  for the people. How can you be the inquisitors for the people when you  don't even dignify the process with evidence and with witnesses? 

  I often have school kids come visit me here in the Senate, which I  really enjoy because I used to be the superintendent of the Denver  Public Schools. When they come visit me, they very often have been on  the Mall. They have seen the Lincoln Memorial. They have seen the  Washington Monument. They have been seen the Supreme Court, this  Capitol. And there is a tendency among them to believe that this was  just all here, that it was all just here. And of course, 230 years ago,  I tell them, none of it was here. None of it was here. It was in the  ideas of the Founders, the people whom we call the Founders, who did  two incredible things in their lifetime, in their generation, that had  never been done before in human history. They wrote a Constitution that  would be ratified by the people who lived under it. It never happened  before. They would never have imagined that we would have lasted 230  years--at least until the age of Donald Trump.  

  They led an armed insurrection against a colonial power. We call that  the Revolutionary War. That succeeded too. 

  They did something terrible in their generation that will last for  the rest of our days and that is they perpetuated human slavery. The  building we are standing in today was built by enslaved human beings  because of the decisions that they made. 

  But I tell the kids who come and visit me that there is a reason why  there are not enslaved human beings in this country anymore and that is  because of people like Frederick Douglass. He was born a slave in the  United States of America, escaped his slavery in Maryland, risked his  life and limb to get to Massachusetts, and he found the abolitionist  movement there. And the abolitionist movement has been arguing for  generations that the Constitution was a pro-slavery document. Frederick  Douglass, who is completely self-taught, said to them: You have this  exactly wrong, exactly backward, 180 degrees from the truth. The  Constitution is an anti-slavery document, Frederick Douglass said, not  a pro-slavery document. 

  But we are not living up to the words of the Constitution. It is the  same thing Dr. King said the night before he was killed in Memphis when  he went down there for the striking garbage workers and he said: I am  here to make America keep the promise you wrote down on the page. 

  In my mind, Frederick Douglass and Dr. King are Founders, just as  much as the people who wrote the Constitution of the United States. How  could they not be? How could they not be? 

  The women who fought to give my kids, my three daughters, the right  to vote, who fought for 50 years to get the right to vote--mostly women  in this country--are Founders, just like the people who wrote the  Constitution, as well. 

  Over the years that I have been here, I have seen this institution  crumble into rubble. This institution has become incapable of  addressing the most existential questions of our time that the next  generation cannot address. They can't fix their own school. They can't  fix our immigration system. They can't fix climate change, although  they are getting less and less patient with us on that issue. 

  But what I have come to conclude is that the responsibility of all of  us--not just Senators but all of us as citizens in a democratic  republic--230 years after the founding of this Republic, is the  responsibility of a Founder. It is that elevated sense of what a  citizen is required to do in a republic to sustain that republic, and I  think that is the right way to think about it. It gives you a sense of  what is really at stake beyond the headlines on the cable television at  night and, certainly, in the social media feeds that divide us minute  to minute in our political life today.  

  The Senate has clearly failed that standard. We have clearly failed  that standard. The idea that we would turn our backs and close our eyes  to evidence pounding on the outside of the doors of this Capitol is  pitiful. It is disgraceful, and it will be a stain on this body for all  time. More than 50 percent of the people in this place have said that  what the President did was wrong. It clearly was wrong. It clearly was  unconstitutional. It clearly was impeachable. What President would run  for office saying to the American people: I am going to try to extort a  foreign power for my own electoral interest to interfere in our  elections? It is exactly the kind of conduct that the impeachment  clause was written for. It is a textbook case of why the impeachment  clause exists. 

  But even if you don't agree with me that he should have been  convicted or that he should be convicted, I don't know how anybody in  this body goes home and faces their constituents and says that we  wouldn't even look at the evidence. 

  So I say to the American people: Our democracy is very much at risk.  I am not one of those people who believes that Donald Trump is the  source of all our problems. I think he has made matters much worse, to  be sure, but he is a symptom of our problem. He is a symptom of our  failure to tend to the democracy--to our responsibility--as Founders.  And if we don't begin to take that responsibility as seriously as our  parents and grandparents did--people who faced much bigger challenges  than we ever did--nobody is asking us, thank God, to end human slavery.  Nobody is asking us to fight for 50 years for the self-evident  proposition that women should have the right to vote. We are not  marching in Selma, being beaten for the self-evident prospect that all  people are created equal. Nobody is asking us to climb the Cliffs of  Normandy to fight for freedom in a World War. 

  But we are being asked to save the democracy and we are going to fail  that test today in the Senate. And my prayer for our country is that  the American people will not fail that test. I am optimistic that we  will not. We have never failed it before, and I don't think we will  fail it in our time. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT