Letter to Elaine L. Chao, Department of Transportation Secretary - Congressman Neguse, Colorado Delegation Members Call for Extension of Federally-Funded Transportation Project Deadlines


Dear Secretary Chao,

We write to request that you allow for increased flexibility or for extending project deadlines thatmay now be infeasible for cities to meet because of the COVID-19 pandemic. We also ask thatyou consider waiving state and local matching requirements.

In these extremely challenging times, states across the country and cities across Colorado arestruggling with balancing their budgets while providing for their constituents and prioritizingsafety. In many cases, construction projects have been halted, postponed, or delayed--making itvery difficult for cities and localities to complete federally-funded projects by their requiredfederal deadlines.

States and cities are struggling to meet project deadlines set before the outbreak of the COVID19 pandemic, and risk losing their federal matching funds if they are unable to do so. As a resultof budget constraints, they are also struggling to find enough money to make their state and localmatch, and risk missing the project completion deadlines altogether and losing federal funding.Formula funding from programs such as the Surface Transportation Program (STP)-Metro,Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Program (CMAQ), Transportation Alternatives Program(TAP), and other federal programs that fund city projects are desperately needed, but withoutdeadline extensions, many cities may not be able to use the funding they have already beenallocated.

At a time when states are struggling to create budgets for the upcoming Fiscal Year and whenour nation's infrastructure continues to be in desperate need of repair, we should take steps tomake sure state and local governments can continue to rely on the federal cost-share for theirobligated projects, by making it easier to extend their project timelines or waiving the state andlocal match requirement.

For the above reasons, we request that you allow for increased flexibility during this uniquesituation and permit the use of waivers or other means to extend the Performance Periods forstate and local projects that can no longer feasibly meet their project deadlines. We also urge youto consider waiving the local and state match requirement during the COVID-19 pandemic, because many cities and states across the country do not have the resources to meet their required funding level and are at risk of losing these critical funds.

Thank you for your consideration of these requests. We look forward to working with you as wesearch for ways to ease the burden on our state and local governments and improve ourinfrastructure during this global pandemic.