MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I would like to thank my colleague from  Connecticut for his remarks tonight and for the hopefulness that he has  expressed. I have been here now for 11 years, and I can't predict  success here, and I can't say it is assured, but I think it is very  likely that we are going to come together in a deal. I hope we come  together in that deal today, and I think the American people are going  to be able to assess the progress that has been made for workers as a  result of taking a little bit of extra time, for hospitals as a result  of a little extra time, for State and local governments that are going  to benefit mightily because of the work we have done. 

  I rise tonight not to get into this back-and-forth about this because  I think we are going to address it, and I think we are going to address  it in a way that is meaningful and in a way that is bipartisan and in a  way that can help give the American people a measure of confidence that  we are doing our job. For those of you who have heard me over the years  on this floor, I don't always come here with a report that optimistic.  But tonight, given everything I have heard over the course of the day,  I want to say that this is a serious problem. It is an unprecedented  challenge. We have to rise to this challenge together, and I believe  that when the votes are counted on this bill, it will have been a  better bill for the work that has been done, and the vote will be a big  bipartisan vote, which will be a shot in the arm for the country and  for the American people. 

  I want to talk not about this back-and-forth, but I want to talk  about something that is confronting us; that is, the worst pandemic in  a century. Just a month ago, just 30 days ago, nobody here would have  imagined--30 days ago we had 30 confirmed cases in the United States.  Today, there are over 41,000 cases, the most anywhere outside of China  and Italy. 

  The President is right. He goes out and says that there are 140-some  countries that have this. That is true. We are in the top three of  those countries. There are 379 Americans who have died as we are here  tonight. In the middle of the worst public health crisis in a century,  our medical community doesn't have the basic supplies and equipment  they need to respond. 

  This matters because if we don't get our doctors and nurses  protective gear, they are going to get sick. If they get sick, they  can't help everyone else who is sick. That is a huge problem, and our  medical professionals in Colorado, as in the Commonwealth of Virginia  and all across this great country, have been begging for us to pay  attention to this for months--for months. 

  The chief medical officer at Denver Health--which is our fabulous  public hospital in Denver, one of the leading hospitals in this  country--says that they do not have enough tests or swabs to keep pace,  and the turnaround time for tests is taking much too long. ``Our ICU  right now is full of patients awaiting test results,'' she said. ``We  need faster testing.'' Hopefully that is coming, but it has been a long  time getting here. And every single healthcare worker who is tested in  this country but does not get a result for 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 days--even  if they don't have the coronavirus--can't go back to work. 

  As a result of that, we face a severe shortage of healthcare workers  in this country. At Denver Health, they say: ``We are burning through  our personal protective equipment to the point that we are on short  supply, as is every other health care institution in Denver and likely  in Colorado.'' 

  If this continues, she said they are going to have to put two  patients on a single ventilator. That is not how it is supposed to  work. 

  In Colorado, our nurses are sewing masks because they don't have  masks. My wife was sewing a mask at our home in Denver yesterday--in  the United States, in the 21st century. 

  We have doctors who are getting just a single mask and being told to  use it indefinitely. I was on the phone this evening with doctors and  administrators from our hospitals who are telling me that they are  having to ration swabs for tests. It is a two-swab test, but they are  only using one swab because they don't have enough swabs to do it  properly. There are doctors who are having to use the same mask patient  after patient when the mask is designed for it to be only one patient;  that is the way it is supposed to work. They are violating protocols of  the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control  because they are rationing equipment. There is no excuse in this  country--the richest country--that they should be rationing in this  public healthcare crisis. Gowns, masks, shields, clothes--America's  healthcare workers don't have any of it. And do you know what they  spent today doing? They spent today scrolling through ads--not all of  them, not the ones with patients, but the ones who have to equip our  medical professionals. They were scrolling through ad after ad after  ad--from where? China--saying that their masks are for sale in China.  They have no idea whether these are fly-by-night organizations. 

  These companies are requiring Denver Health and other hospitals to  put the money upfront and say: You will get the masks 3 or 4 weeks from  now. They don't even know whether those masks will come. They don't  know what the quality of those masks will be. We were told yesterday by  the President that China was sending us masks, and now all of those  seem to be being sent to Italy. 

  I saw a quote from a doctor in California who said it is like ``We  are at war with no ammo.'' That is not their fault. That is not their  fault. They are on the frontlines of this war. We should be ashamed. We  should be ashamed. I am. 

  The question is, How are we going to make sure our medical community  has the supplies and equipment they need? Perhaps it would be useful to  be honest about where we are, to start with. 

  The Department of Health and Human Services estimates that we are  going to need 3.5 billion masks to fight this pandemic this year. When  you hear me tonight use the word ``mask,'' in your own mind add the  word ``gown,'' add the word ``glove,'' add the word ``shield'' because  they need all of that--3.5 billion masks to fight this pandemic this  year. The administration came with their first supplemental requesting  $1.8 billion; today we are at  $2 trillion in just the last month. They came and said 1.8 billion. We  said we need 350 million masks. We need 3.5 billion masks--billion  masks--this year. Today in America, we have exactly 35 million masks.  That is 1 percent of what we need--not 80 percent but 1 percent of what  we need.  

  Nationwide tonight, our hospitals have 160,000 ventilators among all  the hospitals we have in the greatest country in the world. Johns  Hopkins estimates that we are going to need another 40,000 ventilators  by the time this is done. 

  In Colorado tonight, I heard--this might be of interest to the other  Senators who are here tonight because New York represents half of the  cases in this country right now. The concern from Colorado, and I am  sure from your States as well, is that all those ventilators are going  to go to New York, as they should right now because that is where the  greatest need is. What is going to be left for the rest of us? What is  going to be left for the rest of us in 7 days or 10 days or 20 days? 

  How can we be this foolish? How can we be this blind? The  administration hasn't taken this crisis seriously enough from the  beginning. 

  When it comes to the equipment that people on the frontline need--the  ``ammunition,'' to use their word, that the people on the frontline  need--they are being ignored or dismissed with a bunch of happy talk  about how we are going to solve this problem--if we can even admit that  there is a problem. The result is something I never thought I would see  in the United States of America, the country I grew up in. States like  New York and New Jersey are literally being forced to outbid--States  like New York are being forced to outbid New Jersey and California to  secure critical supplies while they are fighting through the worst  public health crisis in a century. 

  Yesterday, during his press conference in the White House, the  President said: We want them to be on that open market because we might  lose money if we are not on that open market. 

  Exactly the opposite of what he thinks is happening, is happening.  Governors like Andrew Cuomo are being forced to pay $7 for surgical  masks that just a week ago cost 85 cents. My doctors in Colorado told  me tonight that stuff yesterday that was five times the cost of what it  ordinarily is, today is seven times the cost of what it ordinarily is.  In Colorado, our children's hospital is paying 70 cents a mask. That is  10 times what they were spending a month ago. Ventilators that used to  cost a few thousand dollars now cost up to $40,000 because the  President won't act. He will not provide the national leadership that  we need. 

  Ten days ago, when talking about the test, he said: ``I don't take  any responsibility at all.'' That is what he said. He may think that he  doesn't have the blame for everything that has gone wrong--and I am  sure he doesn't--but he does have a very profound responsibility now  that only Presidents of the United States have. 

  When Governors from across the country raised the supply shortages  with him last week, he told them to ``get it yourself.'' He told them  that the Federal Government is not ``a shipping clerk.'' 

  He said:  

       The governors, locally, are going to be in command. We will       be following them, and we hope they can do the job. . . . We       are there to back you up should you fail.  

  We are failing, Mr. President. We are failing to address the  seriousness of the public health crisis this country is facing. And we  are going to rue the day that we said it was the hospitals' problem to  solve, that it was the Governors' problem to solve, that it was the  States' problem to solve. 

  I want to say this to the American people tonight because it is  really important that you know what the facts are. It is important for  you to know that we don't need tens of thousands of masks or millions  of masks. We need billions of masks and all the other equipment that I  talked about earlier--gowns, shields, swabs, the elements of tests, the  reagents that are necessary to take those tests. When I say ``we,'' I  am talking about the healthcare professionals we are relying on to be  the frontline in this effort. 

  What is the President's response to this? He has touted about the  shipments coming out of our national stockpile. I am coming to think  this national stockpile must be more like a really small national  warehouse. 

  Colorado received that shipment yesterday. We are grateful for it. We  are grateful for the shipment we got from the national stockpile. I  want my colleagues to hear me. The Department of Public Health in  Colorado estimates that those supplies will last for a single day of  statewide operation--1 day. 

  Then the President comes out and talks about the tens of thousands of  masks that are going to New York or California, as if that can make the  difference. It won't make a difference when you need millions of masks. 

  Then, at the press conference yesterday, he suggested that the new  commitments by private businesses will somehow be enough. He said: The  numbers are quite large, and we have tremendous numbers of companies  making equipment. We have respirators. We have ventilators. We have a  lot of things happening right now. We have millions of masks that are  coming. 

  Millions of masks, not billions. 

  They will be here soon, he said. They will be shipped directly to the  States. 

  He failed to mention that soon actually means 18 months from now.  That is not going to help us. We don't have 18 months. It is literally  life and death. 

  It is for all of these reasons that we ask the President to invoke  his authorities under the Defense Production Act, which gives him and  him alone the ability to mobilize private industry so we can ramp up  production in a coordinated and coherent way, so we can have a national  approach to fixing this broken supply chain, to fixing the empty  storerooms, and to putting these critical supplies and equipment on the  frontline. 

  I was so pleased that he invoked those authorities 5 days ago, but  instead of using them, he has equivocated. He said things like we have  the act to use ``just in case we need it. But we have so many things  being made. . . .'' He didn't finish the sentence, but he meant this  voluntary effort--which I deeply appreciate, by the way. Don't get me  wrong. Every single mask and every single gown and every single shield  that can be manufactured and every single respirator that can be  manufactured and lent to the people on the lines--that is important,  but it is not going to solve this crisis. It is not going to keep us in  a position where we can actually flatten the curve. 

  He said yesterday: ``We're a country not based on nationalizing our  businesses. Call a person over in Venezuela, ask them how did  nationalization for their businesses work out?'' 

  As every Senator here knows, the Defense Production Act doesn't  nationalize businesses. It is our tool. It is a mechanism to create a  coherent strategy for our public sector and our private sector to  produce goods based on an urgent national need. The government pays  market value for those goods and has a strategy for how those goods  will be distributed around the country as the epidemic moves from place  to place. 

  It is unacceptable that we are in a situation where States are having  to bid against each other, where the hospitals in Colorado are having  to bid against each other. They said to me tonight: Michael, if you  could just get us 5 million masks and send them to Colorado, we can  distribute them. But it makes no sense for us to be looking up the  yellow pages in China to buy masks. 

  I said to them: I wish that were enough. I wish that would be enough.  But as long as Colorado is going to have to compete with New York,  which is going to have to compete with New Jersey or compete with  Florida or compete with Texas, it won't work. 

  It is not just the price, although that is shocking. The fact that  there are people gouging at a moment like this is appalling. It is not  just the price; it is the availability. The nurses and doctors in  Denver, CO, or in any city in this country tonight should not be using  one swab for a test. It takes two. They should not be wearing one mask  all day long--a mask that is designed to be worn with just one patient. 

  The President said yesterday that he looked into this as a  businessman. He was shocked at all the masks being thrown away. We  ought to be able to sterilize the masks. 

  There are important reasons why we have those rules--to protect our  healthcare workers and so we don't spread disease. 

  By the way, I asked: Does it solve your problem that the President  has said we can use construction masks now in our healthcare  facilities? 

  They said: We are grateful for the additional masks that we are  getting, but it is not remotely helping fix the scale of the problem,  and a lot of these masks actually aren't appropriate in a healthcare  setting. 

  They will do anything. They are not looking down their noses at it. I  had somebody say to me today--one of the people on the call said that  they had gotten masks from a finger nail salon and that they had no  idea what quality the masks were. There was Asian writing on the  outside of the package. They don't know what it is, but those masks  will be there when they run out of all the other masks. That is what  they are going to use. That is what we are using in the United States  of America tonight? That is what we are telling the people we are  asking to save our lives, to save our parents' lives? That is what we  are saying? 

  I am sure the other Senators have had the same experience that I have  had, which is I have been in touch with companies all over my State  that stand ready to help produce supplies and equipment. 

  The President said yesterday that one of the problems he had or one  of the challenges he had was, you wouldn't have any idea where to  begin. I don't know who makes ventilators. Maybe they made them a long  time ago and they have forgotten how to do it. Surely he doesn't  believe that we couldn't figure that out in a split second, where the  manufacturing capacity is in this country to do what needs to be  done. Yet these companies have said to me that nobody in the  administration has been in touch to tell them what to make, how much to  make, or where it should go.  

  I say thank you to my colleagues for their indulgence, but the truth  is--and the truth needs to be understood--that I think this is a moment  in time when we have to get this done, but we are getting it so wrong.  The truth is, as much as we welcome all of the citizens and businesses  that are stepping up on their own, it will not be enough. 

  Hanes can't produce 3.5 billion masks. It is a great company. As the  President said yesterday, it is involved in cotton products, but it  can't make 3.5 billion masks, and it can't do it in the time we need it  done. GM and Tesla can't manufacture 40,000 ventilators. As for the 2  million masks the Vice President trumpeted yesterday from Apple, we  appreciate it, but it is an infinitesimal amount. It sounds like a big  number. That is why the President actually said yesterday that the  reason he came out and read those big numbers was so that you would  know they were sending out lots of stuff. He said that, and I think  that gives a complete misimpression that, somehow, this is being  handled or that we have it together. 

  We are one nation under God for a reason, and that is to respond to a  challenge just like this one. It cannot be one hospital at a time, one  State at a time, or one business at a time. That will not work. It is  not a strategy. In fact, it is making matters worse because not only  are we not fixing the supply chain, but the pricing is getting  completely distorted, and people are competing with an incredibly  scarce number of goods. 

  This is not a substitute for a coherent national strategy to figure  out how we are going to meet these critical supply and equipment  shortages across the country, and every single day, it gets worse. You  can hear the panic in the Governors and in the people who are working  in our hospitals and in the people who are working with people who are  having to go into unsafe conditions, who are willing to do it. They are  on the frontline of this war with no ammunition. 

  As much as the President may not want to make these hard decisions,  for whatever reason--because he hopes for the best; because maybe the  medical thing will work itself out; because maybe, instead of 18  months, it will be shorter for a vaccine; because maybe the hot weather  will make things better--he is literally the only one with the  authority to call America to this challenge. The President is  portraying himself as a wartime President, but he is leaving it up to  Hanes to plan D-day. It will not work. He needs to give the frontline  of this war the ammunition it needs, and he is the only one who can do  it. No one else can do it. This Senate can't do it. 

  There has been a lot of back-and-forth today about a brief delay in  passing this economic package. As I said, I hope very much it will  pass. I hope very much we will have a deal soon. I hope very much it  will be bipartisan. We should do our work, and we should get that done.  Yet I beg of you--I beg of you, my colleagues in the U.S. Senate--for  every Member of this body to call on the White House and ask why, after  weeks, there is still no plan to make sure our doctors and nurses have  the gear to protect themselves; why our hospitals still don't have the  ventilators they need to treat people; why it is not obvious where  those ventilators are going to come from; and why we still don't have a  clear strategy from this administration to arm the frontline that is  waging this war while we are here tonight. 

  This is, perhaps, the greatest challenge our country has faced since  the Second World War. It probably is, and it is scary. We have risen to  challenges before, and I think we can rise to this one. I may not have  voted for the President, and I may not agree with much of what he does,  but I urge him to act. I urge him to use the authority that is granted  to him uniquely in America. Out of 330 million Americans, only the  President of the United States has that authority. He won that  election. He has that authority. We can't do it without him. Lives are  literally at stake in Colorado and across the country. 

  We need him to lead, and I beg of all the Members of this Chamber to  do whatever they can, if they have influence on him, to get him to  understand the gravity of the situation we are facing, the scale of the  situation we are facing--the scope that we are facing--and the lack of  preparedness that needs to be addressed by his invoking his authority  under that statute. 

  I thank my colleagues for their patience and their indulgence. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT