Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 1


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BENNET. Madam President, I appreciate the opportunity to talk  about this bill. 

  I thank my colleague Senator Udall, of New Mexico, and my colleague  Senator Merkley, of Oregon, for their extraordinary work. 

  I don't know if they have ever had the experience that I have often  had or the Presiding Officer has had, but there are times, in my having  spent a week here after having done absolutely nothing, when I am  walking through the Denver International Airport, and I want to put a  paper bag over my head because I am so embarrassed about the failure of  this institution to live up to even the barest responsibilities that we  have. 

  I mean, we can't even pass a basic infrastructure bill around this  place while China is building 3,500 miles of fiber-optic cable to  connect Latin America with Africa and back to China to export the  surveillance state from China. That is what China is doing there while  we are doing nothing here. We have become the land of flickering  lights, whereby the standard of success is whether we have kept the  lights on for another 2 hours or another 4 hours. 

  What the American people need to understand is that this is the  ideological end state of what the Freedom Caucus came to Washington to  do. It has become the ideological end state of what Mitch McConnell can  do because, in the rubble of our institutions, they can achieve the  objectives they want to achieve. They can put rightwing judges on the  courts without our institutions working. They can come out here and cut  taxes for rich people and claim it is a middle-class tax cut without  our institutions working. Yet what we are unable to do without those  institutions working is invest in our infrastructure, is make sure that  we have an education system in this country that is actually liberating  people from their economic circumstances instead of reinforcing their  economic circumstances, is ensure that we are doing something on the  climate and doing something on guns. 

  It has been more than 20 years since Columbine happened in Colorado.  My State--the Western State, a Second Amendment State--passed  background checks after Columbine. My three daughters grew up knowing  they lived in a State that was actually trying to respond to what was  going on in their schools--not true of the U.S. Congress. 

  The reason for much of this inaction is the Supreme Court's decision  with regard to Citizens United. I will not belabor the point, for I  know my colleague from Hawaii was kind to let me go ahead of her, but  let me just repeat this: After Citizens United, 10 donors over the past  decade have contributed $1.2 billion to our policy. That has created a  corruption of inaction in the U.S. Senate. It is not corruption that  you see because it is a corruption of inaction. It is the bill that is  not introduced. It is the committee hearing that is not held. It is the  vote that is never taken for fear that, if you do that, some  billionaire is going to drop $30 million on your race and run a primary  against you in your next election. 

  Do you want to know why we can have a Senate in the United States  that votes on only 22 amendments in a year? That is the reason. Do you  want to know why we have a Senate wherein 75 percent of the votes are  personnel votes and 25 percent are actually on amendments? That is the  reason. We have to overcome it, not for Democrats or Republicans but  for the American people because this is their exercise in self- government. This is the way they make decisions. 

  I know these reforms can work because they have worked in Colorado  with a bipartisan commission to end gerrymandering, mail-in voting, and  automatic and same-day voting registration. The result is that we have  the second highest voter participation rate in America. How can that  not be good for our democracy? 

  So my hope is that at some point, when he hears the voices of the  American people, Mitch McConnell will relent and allow these bills to  come to the floor. 

  He described this bill last year as a power grab--a power grab--and I  will accept that if it is understood that it is a power grab by the  American people, which is what it is--an effort to get money out of our  politics and to put people back into our politics so we can start doing  the work that the American people sent us here to do. 

  With that, I thank my colleague from Hawaii again for her indulgence. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT