Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Chairman, the budget resolution will allow us to cut taxes,  reduce spending, help our national defense, and secure the border,  which is exactly what we told the voters we were going to do in the  election.

I always say that we make this job way too complicated. It is pretty  darned simple. What did Members tell the voters they were going to do  when they put their name on the ballot? If they get elected, go do what  they said.

The American people elected us, a majority in the House and a  majority in the Senate. There were 77 million people who voted for  President Trump. We told them what we were going to do. It is now time  to do it, and this is step one of that process.

The ranking member referenced the American people. We are remembering  the American people, exactly what we told them, and why they elected  us. To do all of that, it takes resources, particularly the one that  focuses in our committee on securing the border.

It takes resources, and the reason we need so many resources to  secure the border is because the previous administration screwed  everything up so badly. Day one of the Biden administration, they made  three decisions: no more building the wall, no more remain in Mexico,  and when migrants get here, they will not be detained but will be  released.

When that is done and it is advertised to the entire planet that  those are the new policies, everybody comes. There were 10 million  people who came, almost the equivalent of the entire population of the  State I get the privilege of representing.

Mr. Chairman, to fix that, my colleagues have to find resources, find  savings, and do what we are doing in this legislation because it takes  personnel. It takes equipment. It takes space. It takes detention beds.  It takes judges. It takes lawyers to secure that border and handle what  needs to be done to fix what Democrats caused and created.

Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman for the good work he has done and  the Republican members of the Budget Committee for putting this  together.

The gentleman is right. If we don't do this, taxes are going to go up  on the families across this great country. I don't want the taxes to go  up on the families who I represent in the Fourth District of Ohio. I  don't want that to happen.

I want the borders secured. I want to reduce spending because I know  we are running deficits in the trillions, and we have piled up $36  trillion in debt. I want to help our national defense because it is  still a dangerous world.

I just got back from Israel last week. We know how dangerous it is.  They know how dangerous this world is.

This bill is common sense, and it is step one of a three-part process  to get us to what we told the American people we were going to do and  what they elected us to do. That is why I hope we can pass this.

Mr. Chairman, I urge a ``yes'' vote, and I thank the chairman again  for his good work and his committee's work.