Deporting Fraudsters Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700905/deporting-fraudsters-act-of-2026


Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, let's just step back and understand the Democrats'  position for a second.

First, they were for a wide-open border. You don't have to take my  word for it, just remember what we saw. Every single day for 4 years of  the Biden administration, people were lining up on the southern border,  camping out under the bridges in the various towns along the border, 8  million to 10 million people in a 4-year timeframe.

They were all fine with that. They lost track of 300,000 kids during  that time.

Then, another position they were for was to abolish ICE. They don't  want to enforce our immigration laws. No. We have to abolish ICE. Being  doxed, tracked, harassed, spit on, sworn at, and attacked, and making  death threats on ICE agents and their families, as if that wasn't  enough, now the Democrats say we want to get rid of them altogether.  That is really going to help the situation in our country.

Third, they are for sanctuary jurisdictions. We just passed  legislation in our committee 2 weeks ago to deal with this in 18  cities, 11 States, 3 counties, the District of Columbia. Mr. Speaker,  31\1/2\ percent of the population of this country resides in a  jurisdiction where leftwing political leaders tell local law  enforcement not to work with Federal law enforcement when it comes to  enforcing Federal law. That is maybe one of the dumbest things I have  ever heard, but that is their position.

Guess what. Last year alone, 17,864 times a detainer was filed at the  local jail, local detention center, when an illegal migrant was in that  facility and charged with another crime, and ICE files a detainer and  says: If you are going to let him out, give us a heads-up. Just tell  us. We will come to apprehend the individual there in the jail so we  don't have to do it on the street where our agents are going to be spit  on, harassed, sworn at, and attacked. Just let us do it at the jail.

These jurisdictions said no, and now here we are today.

Mr. Speaker, the final one: If you find some fraudster who is a  naturalized citizen and rips off the taxpayers, you can't deport them.  They are, like, no, we are not going to deport them. We are going to  give them, as the chairman said, sanctuary here in the country.

These are the most ridiculous positions: open border, abolish ICE,  sanctuary jurisdiction, and don't deport fraudsters who are here.

This is craziness, but that is their position, and this bill is so  common sense.

I thank Mr. Taylor for sponsoring this legislation. I think it was  Sarah Huckabee Sanders a few years ago who said in a response to  President Biden that the divide in America today is normal versus  crazy. This is just normal, commonsense stuff. Every position they take  is crazy.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Taylor and our chairman, Mr. McClintock, for  the great work they have done on this legislation, and I urge a ``yes''  vote.