Epstein Files Transparency Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696818/epstein-files-transparency-act


Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 4405) to require the Attorney General to release all  documents and records in possession of the Department of Justice  relating to Jeffrey Epstein, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4405

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Epstein Files Transparency       Act''.       SEC. 2. RELEASE OF DOCUMENTS RELATING TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN.

(a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall, subject to       subsection (b), make publicly available in a searchable and       downloadable format all unclassified records, documents,       communications, and investigative materials in the possession       of the Department of Justice, including the Federal Bureau of       Investigation and United States Attorneys' Offices, that       relate to:

(1) Jeffrey Epstein including all investigations,       prosecutions, or custodial matters.

(2) Ghislaine Maxwell.

(3) Flight logs or travel records, including but not       limited to manifests, itineraries, pilot records, and customs       or immigration documentation, for any aircraft, vessel, or       vehicle owned, operated, or used by Jeffrey Epstein or any       related entity.

(4) Individuals, including government officials, named or       referenced in connection with Epstein's criminal activities,       civil settlements, immunity or plea agreements, or       investigatory proceedings.

(5) Entities (corporate, nonprofit, academic, or       governmental) with known or alleged ties to Epstein's       trafficking or financial networks.

(6) Any immunity deals, non-prosecution agreements, plea       bargains, or sealed settlements involving Epstein or his       associates.

(7) Internal DOJ communications, including emails, memos,       meeting notes, concerning decisions to charge, not charge,       investigate, or decline to investigate Epstein or his       associates.

(8) All communications, memoranda, directives, logs, or       metadata concerning the destruction, deletion, alteration,       misplacement, or concealment of documents, recordings, or       electronic data related to Epstein, his associates, his       detention and death, or any investigative files.

(9) Documentation of Epstein's detention or death,       including incident reports, witness interviews, medical       examiner files, autopsy reports, and written records       detailing the circumstances and cause of death.

(b) Prohibited Grounds for Withholding.--

(1) No record shall be withheld, delayed, or redacted on       the basis of embarrassment, reputational harm, or political       sensitivity, including to any government official, public       figure, or foreign dignitary.

(c) Permitted Withholdings.--

(1) The Attorney general may withhold or redact the       segregable portions of records that--

(A) contain personally identifiable information of victims       or victims' personal and medical files and similar files the       disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted       invasion of personal privacy;

(B) depict or contain child sexual abuse materials (CSAM)       as defined under 18 U.S.C. 2256 and prohibited under 18       U.S.C. 2252-2252A;

(C) would jeopardize an active federal investigation or       ongoing prosecution, provided that such withholding is       narrowly tailored and temporary;

(D) depict or contain images of death, physical abuse, or       injury of any person; or

(E) contain information specifically authorized under       criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret       in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and are       in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order.

(2) All redactions must be accompanied by a written       justification published in the Federal Register and submitted       to Congress.

(3) To the extent that any covered information would       otherwise be redacted or withheld as classified information       under this section, the Attorney General shall declassify       that classified information to the maximum extent possible.

(A) If the Attorney General makes a determination that       covered information may not be declassified and made       available in a manner that protects the national security of       the United States, including methods or sources related to       national security, the Attorney General shall release an       unclassified summary for each of the redacted or withheld       classified information.

(4) All decisions to classify any covered information after       July 1, 2025 shall be published in the Federal Register and       submitted to Congress, including the date of classification,       the identity of the classifying authority, and an       unclassified summary of the justification.       SEC. 3. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

Within 15 days of completion of the release required under       Section 2, the Attorney General shall submit to the House and       Senate Committees on the Judiciary a report listing:

(1) All categories of records released and withheld.

(2) A summary of redactions made, including legal basis.

(3) A list of all government officials and politically       exposed persons named or referenced in the released       materials, with no redactions permitted under subsection       (b)(1).

Mr. JORDAN.  4405.

Mr. Speaker, we all support holding bad guys accountable, and we are  all going to vote for this resolution, but I think a little perspective  is important.

Democrats have spent 6 months talking about Epstein, even though they  had 4 years to do something about it.

Mr. Speaker, why would they do that? Why would they do that? Maybe  it is to go after President Trump. Never forget that they shut down the  government for 43 days. They said: Don't worry about our military.  Don't worry about air traffic controllers. Don't worry about our  economy. Don't worry about American families. No, no, no. Close the  government for 1\1/2\ months because it might hurt the President.

For the past decade, there has been one constant for Democrats: Go  after Trump.

They spied on his campaign. Then it was Mueller. Then it was  impeachment one. Then it was impeachment two. Then it was all the  lawfare: Alvin Bragg, Fani Willis, Letitia James. Then it was the  Arctic Frost investigation at the Justice Department, surveilling  United States Senators and Congressmen and a whole host of other  Americans. Then it was Jack Smith and his gag orders and his raiding  President Trump's home. Then it was a 43-day shutdown. Now it is  Epstein.

By the way, the same party that did all that, they were also the ones  who were texting with Mr. Epstein during a hearing where Michael Cohen  was their witness in another effort to go after the President.

Americans see through it all and, frankly, it is actually kind of  sad. This obsession, this syndrome, this mindset that says, we have to  go after President Trump no matter what that they have.

Actually, when I think about it, I think it is because President  Trump and Republicans have accomplished so much that they told the  voters they were going to accomplish in the 2024 election. We are  actually doing what we said we are going to do.

President Trump said he was going to cut taxes, and he did. President  Trump said he would secure the border, and he did. President Trump said  he would get men out of women's sports, and he did. President Trump  said he would make sure Iran doesn't have nuclear capability, and he  did. President Trump said he would get the hostages out of Gaza and  back into Israel, and he did. He did this all in 9 months. I don't know  what causes this mindset, this syndrome that the left has, but I know  one thing: It is real.

Which brings me to last week.

Let's think about what the Democrats did last week. The Democrats  released an email that the Oversight Committee had obtained from the  estate, an email from Mr. Epstein to Ms. Maxwell. When the Democrats  released it, they redacted the victim's name. That is something we all  support, something everyone supports, except in this case, no court had  ordered that name redacted. No agency had redacted it. The estate  didn't redact it. The victim had already went public, so why black out  a name? Why black out a name? Mr. Speaker, because she had said in her  book and had testified under oath that she never saw any wrongdoing by  President Trump.

Let's think about what they did. In an email between two criminals,  Mr. Epstein and Ms. Maxwell, they hide the name of an individual who  had went public and exonerated the President, and we know why: to  distort and twist the message because they thought it might harm the  President.

Their position: Cover up the names of people who are already public,  but don't worry about other innocent people who the court said should  remain private.

Again, I think the American people see through it. They see through  what the Democrats are doing. The American people know what this is.  They know Democrats have nothing else to run on because of the success  of this administration.

Mr. Speaker, I say let's vote ``yes'' on this resolution, and then  let's get focused on making sure we are doing what the American  families elected us to do.

Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, today I want to talk about hypocrisy. Let  me be clear. I was a cosponsor of this very bill from the beginning,  from jump start, because we should never protect pedophiles.

For months, my Democratic colleagues have done what they think is  politically convenient through all the yelling, through all the tears,  and through all the sadness.

They say releasing the Epstein list is of grave concern to them. If  that was true, where were they during the 4 years of the Biden  Presidency? Why didn't they demand the release of these files from jump  start in year one? Mr. Speaker, why didn't they ask for them in year  two? If that wasn't good enough, why didn't they ask for them maybe in  year three? They had control. They didn't even ask in his final year of  office.

Other than a single letter the ranking member wrote in 2019, a single  letter, not one Democrat on the committee spoke out about Epstein or  his victims of this very terrible tragedy, other than to say he didn't  like the plea deal.

Mr. Speaker, let me say this: When they stand here today, insisting  how badly they want these files released, why didn't they do it? Yet  they stayed silent for year after year after year under Joe Biden.

It is impossible. Mr. Speaker, it is impossible to see that as  genuine. What I see is a group more focused on scoring political points  and drama than protecting abused children.

Mr. Speaker, the record is clear. Under Republicans, far more  information has been released in the last 6 months than was done during  all 4 years of the previous Presidency under Joe Biden. We have  actually been the party of transparency. We have released the  information. We have told the truth. Unfortunately, and I am sad to say  it, they have been the party of hypocrisy.