Medal of Sacrifice Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699505/medal-of-sacrifice-act-of-2025


Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3497) to establish a medal of service for law enforcement  officers and first responders, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3497

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,            SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Medal of Sacrifice Act of       2025''.       SEC. 2. MEDAL OF SACRIFICE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND                     FIRST RESPONDERS.

(a) Medal of Sacrifice for Law Enforcement Officers and       First Responders.--The President shall issue a medal of       sacrifice for law enforcement officers and first responders       who were killed in the line of duty.

(b) Eligibility.--

(1) In general.--A local, State, Tribal, territorial, or       Federal law enforcement officer or first responder who was       killed in the line of duty shall be eligible for the medal of       sacrifice established under subsection (a).

(2) Exception.--

(A) In general.--A local, State, Tribal, territorial, or       Federal law enforcement officer or first responder who is       killed in the line of duty, but who is subject to an official       finding of wrongdoing, shall not be eligible for the medal of       sacrifice established under subsection (a).

(B) Investigation.--In the case of an official finding of       wrongdoing, the Commission established under subsection (c)       shall investigate the circumstances surrounding the law       enforcement officer's or first responder's cause of death,       including considering any findings by the local, State,       Tribal, territorial, or Federal agency with respect to the       officer's or responder's death. The Commission established       under subsection (c) shall make a final determination as to       the officer's eligibility for the medal established under       subsection (a).

(C) Official finding of wrongdoing.--In this paragraph, the       term ``official finding of wrongdoing'' means a determination       by the law enforcement officer's or first responders'       superior officer or employing law agency that the officer       acted outside of the scope of their duties or not in       accordance with the agency's official policies or procedures.

(c) Commission on Medal of Sacrifice for Law Enforcement       Officers and First Responders.--

(1) Establishment.--The President shall establish a       Commission on the medal of sacrifice for law enforcement       officers and first responders (hereinafter known as the       ``Commission'').

(2) Appointment.--Not later than 150 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint 12       members of the Commission. Such members shall be law       enforcement officers, first responders, and representatives       of organizations knowledgeable about law enforcement.

(3) Term.--Members of the Commission shall be appointed for       a term of 5 years and shall be eligible to serve up to two       terms, either consecutively or non-consecutively. The       President shall make appointments to fill such vacancies as       may occur on the Board.

(4) Prohibition on payment.--Members shall not be paid for       serving on the Commission.

(5) Responsibilities.--The Commission shall--

(A) advise the Commission on the design of the medal of       sacrifice for law enforcement officers and first responders;

(B) promote the establishment of the medal of sacrifice for       law enforcement officers and first responders;

(C) determine how the medal of sacrifice for law       enforcement officers and first responders shall be presented;

(D) make any final determination necessary pursuant to       subsection (b)(2)(B); and

(E) advise the President regarding criteria for assessing       eligibility pursuant to subsection (b).

(6) Initial award.--The Commission shall award the       following law enforcement officers the medal of sacrifice:

(A) Deputy Ralph ``Butch'' Waller (Badge #8434);

(B) Deputy Ignacio ``Dan'' Diaz (Badge #7637); and

(C) Deputy Luis Paez (Badge #3882).

(7) Sunset.--The Commission shall cease to exist on the       date on which the President determines that the Commission       has completed each responsibility under paragraph (5).

(d) Description.--The medal of sacrifice for law       enforcement officers and first responders shall be a modified       quatrefoil, with rounded lobes extending from a central       octagon. The field incorporates features of the Great Seal of       the United States, redesigned by Tiffany & Co in 1885. The       American eagle is charged with a coat of arms as a shield,       argent, on a chevron gules between three lions rampant azure,       as many chevronels argent; the crest, out of a coronet or, a       double-tailed lion rampant azure, holding in its dexter paw a       torch or enflamed proper; and ``Integritas'' included as a       motto. Surrounding the seal are mullets, 47 in number,       alternating with three rampant lions and incorporating four       chevrons. In base, the word ``SACRIFICE'' is inscribed. In       dexter base, three oak leaves are placed, symbolizing the       national tree of the U.S., representing strength, resilience,       and honoring the families and widows of the fallen. The       reverse of the medal is sandblasted and bears an engraving of       the names of the fallen heroes. The medal is suspended from a       ribbon, either Azure or Gules depending on the fallen hero       being honored. The ribbon bail is prepared and attached by       hand soldering to the back of the medal. The medal is crafted       from Silver Ag925 with 24k Gold Vermeil, with a weight of       approximately 63 grams. It has a diameter of 2.25 inches. The       Vermeil plating has a thickness of 2.5 microns. The medal       combines national symbols with heraldic elements to represent       the sacrifice of the fallen deputies. The use of Silver and       Gold signifies the value and honor associated with their       service.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3497, the Medal of Sacrifice Act of 2025, honors  law enforcement officers and other first responders who are killed in  the line of duty. This bill authorizes the President to award a medal  to those law enforcement officers and first responders.

Law enforcement officers and other first responders courageously face  danger to protect American communities. While others may flee, law  enforcement and first responders run toward crises.

Law enforcement officers uphold public safety by enforcing laws and  maintaining order. First responders save lives during emergencies  despite the risks to their own safety. These brave men and women  provide essential help in times of need, embodying sacrifice for the  greater good. Some law enforcement and first responders make the  ultimate sacrifice in serving their communities.

In 2024, the FBI reported that 64 law enforcement personnel were  murdered while on duty. That same year, another 56 law enforcement  officers died because of traffic-related incidents.

The National Fire Protection Association reported that there were 62  fatalities from injuries to firefighters in the United States in 2024.

The medal of sacrifice will honor these brave men and women who made  the ultimate sacrifice while serving their communities.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record an estimate from the  Congressional Budget Office for this bill.

H.R. 3497, MEDAL OF SACRIFICE ACT OF 2025, AS ORDERED REPORTED BY THE           HOUSE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY ON DECEMBER 18, 2025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                           By fiscal year, millions of                                                    dollars--                                      -----------------------------------                                          2026      2026-2030   2026-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...........          0           0           0 Revenues............................          0           0           0 Increase or Decrease (-) in the               0           0           0  Deficit............................ Spending Subject to Appropriation             *           *          **  (Outlays).......................... ------------------------------------------------------------------------ * = between zero and $500,000. ** = not estimated.

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? No.

Mandate Effects:

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.

Contains private-sector mandate? No.

H.R. 3497 would create a medal for officers employed by       state, local, or tribal law enforcement agencies who are       killed in the line of duty. Officers who were subject to an       official finding of wrongdoing by their agency would not be       eligible for the award. H.R. 3497 also would create a       commission to advise the President on the design,       presentation, and eligibility criteria for the medal; members       of the commission would not be compensated. Lastly, the bill       would award the medal to three officers.

CBO estimates that the cost to design, manufacture, and       produce each medal would be about $250, and based on the       number of officers killed in the line of duty in recent       years, that about 150 officers would be eligible to receive       medals each year. On that basis, CBO estimates that       implementing H.R. 3497 would cost less than $500,000 over the       2026-2030 period. Any related spending would be subject to       the availability of appropriated funds.

The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Jeremy Crimm.       The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy       Director of Budget Analysis.                                                 Phillip L. Swagel,                             Director, Congressional Budget Office.

Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, the Medal of Sacrifice Act of 2025 is a  great piece of legislation, and I hope everyone will vote for it.