No Rogue Rulings Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689717/no-rogue-rulings-act-of-2025


Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, there are 677 Federal district judges, and they are just  that, judges. They are not the President of the United States. They are  not the person who put his name on the ballot and ran nationwide, got  77 million votes, won the electoral college, and is head of the  executive branch. They are judges, district judges.

I said this in committee. The real question ultimately is who gets to  decide: some district judge, or the guy who put his name on the ballot;  some bureaucrat, or the guy who ran for the office and got elected by  we the people?

That is the fundamental question. Guess what? We just got two  decisions from the United States Supreme Court who seemed to reinforce  that fundamental principle that the guy who runs and heads the  executive branch makes the decision.

The Supreme Court said 2 days ago that they are going to put a hold  on the time on this Judge Boasberg and this migrant issue that has been  with us for the last 3 weeks.

Then, yesterday, this unelected district judge in California who  thinks they get to decide how many probationary employees work in the  executive branch, not the guy who heads the executive branch, the  Supreme Court said ``no'' to that, those leftwing groups who were  seeking standing in that case.

Both decisions are wins for the Constitution, wins for the rule of  law, wins for the executive branch, and, maybe most importantly, wins  for common sense.

I think I have been pointing this out since Judge Boasberg issued his  order when he said: Turn the plane around. Bring back the bad guys.  Bring back the illegal migrants in this terrorist organization. Turn  the plane around. Bring them back. That makes no sense. It makes no  sense, and the American people understand it.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Issa for this good piece of legislation that  we passed out of the committee, I think, 4 weeks ago. I thank  Representative Schmidt, who added the good amendment to it that I think  makes a good bill even stronger.

Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the legislation.