Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701524/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, it is all by design. It is all planned. For 4 years, it  was a wide-open border, and 8 million to 10 million people entered this  country.

Then, when they got here, leftwing politicians all across the country  said: We are going to provide sanctuary for these 8 million to 10  million people who illegally came into the country. Eighteen cities, 11  States, three counties, and the District of Columbia, representing  almost one-third of the population of this Nation, said: We will give  sanctuary. We are going to tell local law enforcement not to work with  Federal law enforcement when it comes to the enforcement of Federal  law.

What does that mean in practice? An illegal migrant commits another  crime and is in jail in a detention center. ICE sends a detainer there  and says: Will you let us know if you are going to let this guy out?

Mr. Speaker, 17,864 times last year, they said: No. We won't work  with you. Go get them on the streets.

What happens then? ICE goes out on the street to get them, and the  leftwing agitators on the street spit on them, dox them, track them,  harass them, and swear at them.

Now, what do the Democrats want to do? They don't want to pay them.

It is all by design. That is their plan for the country. The real  question is: Why would a political party do that to this Nation?

I don't know, but they don't want a border, and they don't want  enforcement of our Federal immigration law.  That is plain to see. We have a bill in front of us that funds  everything except--everything except--ICE.

After what they put these ICE agents through on the street, after  letting 8 million to 10 million people into the country, and after  providing a sanctuary jurisdiction for the bad guys who did what this  leader just said in Chicago to this college student, that is what these  guys want.

That is what the country needs to understand, and that is what this  election is about this fall.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote for this legislation.