Extreme Heat Caucus


Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, Arizona has suffered year after year after  year of record-breaking temperatures. Our summers are getting hotter,  lasting longer, and providing little relief at night. This heat is  incredibly dangerous for our health and for our economy.

Last summer, tragically, more than 600 of our fellow Arizonans lost  their lives to the heat. Today, there are another 406 heat-related  deaths in Maricopa County, Arizona, parts of which I have represented  for 25 years. Those deaths are under investigation. We are on track,  yet again, to be one of the deadliest areas for heat exposure in this  country.

That is why I launched the bipartisan Extreme Heat Caucus early this  year with Congressman Mike Lawler of New York. At one point this  summer, nearly half of the country's population was under an extreme  heat warning. From coast to coast, we are struggling to keep people  safe and to fully understand the challenges posed by extreme heat.

Extreme heat is a danger to public health, but it also threatens our  very way of life. As heat waves get worse, roadways will crack, energy  grids will falter, and crops will dry out. Insurance rates and electric  bills will spike.

Some Arizonans saw triple-digit increases on their electric bills  this summer. More evictions will follow. Frontline workers will stay  home or end up hospitalized. Our local economies will lose millions.

We have to take this seriously, but this administration has shown a  profound disregard for the problem at hand. From his very first day,  President Trump has gutted the Federal heat response. Researchers,  public health experts, and administrators of critical grant programs  were caught up in Trump's mass firings, and it is everyday Americans  who will pay the price. A senior, struggling to balance a tight budget,  could be left high and dry without LIHEAP funds to cover their electric  bills or keep the AC running. A single mother, working full time is  worried that her child's school won't be able to keep him safe during  recess or after-school sports practice. A landscaper, growing his small  business, was diagnosed with kidney disease in his early 30s due to  heat exposures.

Members of the Extreme Heat Caucus and I are fighting for the Federal  workforce that handles extreme heat to be reinstated. Their work is  critical to combat extreme heat and the greater climate crisis.

Without a robust Federal heat response, we put countless lives and  billions of dollars at risk. The Extreme Heat Caucus is stepping up to  change that. We are championing smart, bipartisan actions to combat  extreme heat.

As a former mayor of Phoenix, I have been focused on heat policy that  starts local, where the rubber meets the road. Our cities, counties,  and universities are pioneering new ways to combat extreme heat and to  respond to heat emergencies, but they are often going at it without  proper and adequate funding.

My bipartisan bill, the Heat Management Assistance Grant Program Act,  will allow States, local governments, and our Tribal partners to apply  for dedicated, fast-release funding to respond to extreme heat events.  This funding could be used to stand up cooling centers, purchase  medical equipment for heat illnesses, or many other critical services.

For families worried about balancing high-energy costs with high  grocery bills, I have been working to introduce the LIHEAP Parity Act.  The bill will fairly and fully distribute LIHEAP dollars to families in  cold weather States who need help with their heating bill in the winter  and families in warm weather States like mine who need help with their  air-conditioning bill in the summer.

We still don't know much about the possible impacts of extreme heat  on our emergency response, so as the ranking member of the  Transportation and Infrastructure's Economic Development, Public  Buildings, and Emergency Management Subcommittee, I partnered with  Congresswoman Dina Titus on the Extreme Weather and Heat Response  Modernization Act, which, among many other things, will study the  unexpected impacts of heat on key infrastructure and public health.

That study was wrapped into a larger FEMA reform package, and it  passed our committee on a huge bipartisan  margin. It will form an emergency response advisory panel to study slow  moving natural disasters like extreme heat.

I am glad to see the study one step closer to law, and I will keep  working to get the Extreme Weather and Heat Response Modernization Act  across the finish line, as well.

I thank my colleagues who have come to speak before the House today.  They understand the challenge before us.

As Members of Congress, our most basic duty as elected officials is  to keep our constituents and fellow Americans safe. Right now, Congress  must rise to the challenge and start actively combating the effects of  heat.

All of us here agree on this duty before us. Now we have the  responsibility to meet this moment and to save lives.

Mr. Speaker, it is my great pleasure now to yield to the gentleman  from Virginia (Mr. Scott), my friend, and the ranking member of the  Education and Workforce Committee.

Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Scott for his  leadership on this important issue and the bill that he referenced  supporting our workforce dealing with extreme heat. That is an  important piece of legislation.

Mr. Speaker, that is all of our speeches on this important topic of  the extreme heat and the Extreme Heat Caucus. I yield back the balance  of my time.