In Memory of Congressman Raul Grijalva


Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today alongside his colleagues in  the Arizona delegation, alongside members of the Congressional Hispanic  Caucus, alongside members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, and  so many others, to mourn the loss of a political and social justice  giant, Congressman Raul Grijalva.

Raul's story is the American Dream. He was the proud son of a bracero  cowboy from Mexico who went on to become the president of the Tucson  Unified School District Governing Board, chairman of the Pima County  Board of Supervisors, an 11-term Member of the United States Congress,  and the dean of the Arizona delegation.

His accomplishments in this body are too numerous to list. We would  be here all night, but it is his legacy of fighting for environmental  causes that stands out. As chairman of the House Natural Resources  Committee, Raul led the charge to protect America's public lands,  including and especially the Grand Canyon, to protect our most precious  resources, including our water, and he stood up firm for Tribal  sovereignty.

He has been a mainstay in these Capitol hallways for more than two  decades, but he remained an activist at heart. He never forgot where he  came from or the people who got him to where he was.

Raul brought the lessons he learned as a Chicano activist in Tucson  in the 1970s to Washington where he led the Progressive Caucus for more  than a decade, leading the charge for immigrants and working people.

He spoke truth to power, but in his quiet way and always with good  humor. Perhaps Raul's greatest legacy is the generation of Latino  leaders that he mentored, many of whom stand inside this body and many  more that fill city halls, county seats, and school boards back home in  Tucson. As Raul would say: ``It is all about the love.''

He spent more than a half-century working on behalf of southern  Arizona until the very end. We offer our deepest condolences to his  wife, Ramona, his three daughters, and the community of Tucson who will  dearly miss him. Rest now, my friend.

Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Gosar for those kind  words. When you and he disagreed, Raul was normally right.

Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues at this moment to join me in  a moment of silence for our departed colleague.