Welcoming the Honorable Adelita S. Grijalva to the House of Representatives


Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Gosar, the new dean of  Arizona's State delegation. It has been a minute since we have all been  together on the House floor. I am looking for cobwebs around here.

As dean, Congressman Gosar replaces the late Congressman Raul  Grijalva, one of the most impactful leaders in Arizona history.

Now, with great pride, I rise today to do something we have waited 50  long days to do--exactly 49 days too long--and that is to introduce our  colleague from Arizona, Congresswoman Adelita Grijalva.

Since September 23, the people of Arizona have been waiting for this  day, and the excuses for the delay have changed seemingly daily. First  they said they need an election certificate, though one isn't required.  Then they wanted to make sure there was enough pomp and circumstance.  Then we were informed about a nonexistent Pelosi precedent.

At one point, the Speaker went on television and said, ``Bless her  heart. She's a Representative-elect. She doesn't know how things work  around here.''

Bless his heart, because here is how it should work. Let's call it  the Adelita Grijalva precedent: When the American people vote, this  Chamber respects their will and seats them immediately. Politics should  never come into play.

Mr. Speaker, Congresswoman Grijalva is a native Tucsonan, the  granddaughter of a bracero who came here from Mexico. She is the  youngest woman ever elected to the Tucson Unified School Board, serving  20 years, then a Pima County supervisor, fighting for working families,  affordable housing, and early childhood education. She brings that same  fight to Congress.

The people of Arizona's Seventh District placed their trust in her,  and today that trust is rewarded.

Her first act of Congress will be a powerful one. She will be the  218th and final signature on the discharge petition to force the Trump  administration to release the Epstein files, delivering long overdue  justice and accountability for hundreds of victims abused by rich and  powerful men.

She is a smart, principled fighter through and through.

Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to welcome and introduce to this Chamber  Congresswoman Adelita Grijalva.