Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697408/combating-the-lies-of-authoritarians-in-school-systems-act


Mr. JOYCE of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I thank my distinguished colleague  from the State of Michigan for yielding. He certainly is a class act.

I am proud to join my friend Representative Rulli in supporting this  effort to protect our children and national security from dangerous  foreign actors.

For years, China has been attempting to exert soft power over our  country by forging ties with American schools and universities. In an  attempt to influence our future generation, the People's Republic of  China has been establishing Confucius classrooms in our K-12 public  schools. Styled as language and cultural programs, these classes and  their teachers are funded and vetted by the Chinese Government, a fact  that is rarely disclosed to the parents.

A report from Parents Defending Education revealed that over 140 K-12  schools across the country had contracts with a Chinese Government  entity. Attached to these contracts are a variety of incentives,  including fully funded teacher exchanges, Chinese language programs,  and opportunities for American students to learn in China.

However, this funding comes with strings attached. These teachers  could also be terminated if the CCP deems that they violate Chinese  laws or go against the national interest of China.

The CLASS Act combats this foreign interference by preventing our  public schools from accepting these funds. It also ensures that the  Department of Education will be notified of these contracts.

As China seeks greater influence in education across the globe, we  should take commonsense steps to protect our children and maintain the  integrity of the U.S. system of schools.

These Confucius classrooms are just another example of the CCP trying  to exert influence outside their borders. The fact that they are  targeting our kids should be a significant cause for concern.

That is why I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and  demonstrate that Congress will always fight to protect our children and  national security.