Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act--


Mr. CRAPO. I would like to make some remarks. If my colleague is  going to make some remarks, I would yield to her first.

Mr. CRAPO.  I will object, and we  can make our remarks after.

Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, I want to explain the reason for my  objection.

This is another of many attempts that have been made to stop the  efforts of President Trump and his Cabinet and the rest of the  administration in downsizing our bloated bureaucracy and trying to  bring a little bit of control to the amazing growth of our Federal  Government without causing the damage that is always alleged that is  being done.

From groundbreaking biomedical advancements through the NIH to  critical healthcare coverage for America's most vulnerable patients,  the Department of Health and Human Services oversees many of the  Federal Government's most essential functions. But far too often, these  programs fall short of their well-intended purpose.

Bureaucratic overreach has resulted in the loss of trust from many  Americans. Waste, fraud, and abuse have contributed to excessive  spending without meaningful improvements in outcomes, and that is  driving our national debt now to $37 or $38 trillion.

Secretary Kennedy has committed to addressing these failures. He has  made himself and his staff available to Congress and the American  people to restore faith in our institutions. When issues have arisen,  Secretary Kennedy has worked quickly to remedy the problem. In fact, in  recent days, Secretary Kennedy has appeared before two Senate  committees to have an open, transparent conversation about the  Department's efforts.

Last week, the Senate Finance Committee moved to advance more  nominees who will assist in the Department's management and  communication with Congress.

Secretary Kennedy and his team deserve time to deliver on the promise  of putting patients first, promoting transparency, and following the  science.