Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism


Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Waters for the time, although I  must say that I am a little bit confused. I am not going to frame this  as a parliamentary inquiry, but I am very confused.

We have just gotten back from a 2-month paid vacation in which  Federal employees didn't get paid, in which we started a war without  congressional approval, in which electricity prices went up for 70  million Americans, and in which inflation is rocking along at 3\1/2\  percent.

I thought we were going to be in this Chamber talking about  affordability.

By the way, my friends on the Republican side just got shellacked in  an election, from sea to shining sea, where the word is affordability.  They got shellacked on affordability.

What did we do this week? Congressman Norman, a guy who put a .38  Smith & Wesson on the table when he met with Moms Demand Action on Gun  Safety and who called for martial law to stop the peaceful transfer of  power to stop Joe Biden from becoming President, decided that Stacey  Plaskett should no longer be on the Permanent Select Committee on  Intelligence. We spent half a day on that.

Congresswoman Mace decided that Cory Mills should no longer be on  committees. Apparently, we may do another one.

I prepared a speech on affordability with lots of good ideas on how  to make stuff cheaper. It says it right there: Lots of good ideas on  how to make stuff cheaper.

Good idea number one: Get rid of tariffs, which are a tax on bananas,  coffee, vegetables, pasta sauce, pasta, televisions, automobiles, and  burgundy, a fine French claret for my Republican friends over there.

Number two: Stop canceling generation projects, which will make  electricity cheaper.

That was my speech. Instead, we are here to denounce the horrors of  socialism. That is not what I was prepared to talk about. If I were  prepared to talk about it, I would point out two things.

Number one, if you have ever cracked a book or talked to somebody,  you would know that socialism is different than communism. The chairman  and I both come out of a highly capitalist industry, banking. There are  socialist countries that have exhibited horrors, like Denmark, like  Finland, any other number of socialist countries. Communism, in fact,  if this resolution said communism, I suspect we wouldn't even have to  debate it because who likes communism.

Anyway, I would make that point if I were interested in having this  debate, or I might point out--and I welcome the Republican majority in  finally catching on--the fact that we are living in the most socialist  administration in two and a half centuries.

What is the definition of socialism? Again, if you crack a book, you  will see that it is state control over the means of production. This  President has taken a 10 percent stake in Intel, a 15 percent stake in  MP Materials, a 10 percent stake in Lithium Americas, and a 10 percent  stake in Trilogy Metals, and we have a golden share in U.S. Steel-- state control of the means of production.

Mr. HIMES. If the definition of socialism is political control over  the means of production, welcome to the great socialist state of the  United States of America.

The other definition, by the way, has to do with command and control.  Those are words we remember from the Communist era, command and  control. Well, holy smokes, there is not a media company, a law firm,  or a university that has not been subject to the command and control of  the Oval Office.

The President has demanded money. It looks a little like extortion to  me, but in order to avoid making a personality, let's just call it  dividends. The President has demanded dividends from any number of  companies. This is command and control.

I am not actually interested in having that debate because I think we  would all agree on much of this stuff, including the fact that we are  now living in one of the most socialist countries on the planet.

What I really want to do is talk about affordability, which is what  the American people care about.