Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the hard-working chairman and ranking  member of the House Armed Services Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the FY26 National Defense  Authorization Act. Importantly, the bill reforms the outdated  acquisition process at the Department of Defense. It provides a pay  raise for our servicemembers, supports our allies in Europe, including  Ukraine, and takes other steps to strengthen our security.

I am pleased that this bill includes the Intelligence Authorization  Act. I thank, again, the chairman and ranking member. I thank Chairman  Crawford and all members and staff of the House Permanent Select  Committee on Intelligence who contributed to this important  legislation.

In both the unclassified text and the classified annex, the bill  enhances congressional oversight of the intelligence community to  ensure they conduct their work effectively, efficiently, and within the  bounds of law.

Among other provisions, it increases oversight of the FBI's terrorist  watch listing process, requires the NSA to notify Congress of  significant changes in its collection posture, and improves our  visibility in counter-narcotics-related operations.

It requires each IC element to designate a senior official to oversee  work on biotechnology issues, an emerging priority.

It also extends the requirement that there be an IC coordinator to  ensure accountability for Russian atrocities and adds Russia's forcible  transfer of Ukrainian children to the list of matters under the  coordinator's purview.

It requires each IC agency to develop metrics for the adoption of  critical emerging technology.

Finally, it provides a narrowly tailored authority to the CIA to  protect its domestic facilities from unmanned drones, a gap in the law  that we have been seeking to close for more than 5 years.

Once again, I appreciate the strong bipartisan efforts on the IAA, as  well as the NDAA, and I am pleased to support the final product.