Removal of the Use of United States Forces for Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela


Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, not much surprises me anymore, but to sit  here and to listen to the storied House Foreign Affairs Committee,  chaired by somebody who calls the opposition stupid, to hear our  motivations as we stand up for a fundamental constitutional prerogative  mocked through ad hominem attacks, shame, sir. Shame.

We are here because we are standing for our constitutional right to  be consulted on the most consequential decision that the United States  can make: whether we engage in hostilities and put young men and women  at risk.

The chairman's summer stock theater and cringey antics  notwithstanding, this has nothing to do with whether there are troops  on the ground in Venezuela. We will stipulate to your argument,  pathetic as it is, Mr. Speaker.

What this is about is whether what we saw happen 3 weeks ago will  happen again. There were boots on the ground 3 weeks ago, and we didn't  know about it. This resolution is about saying that on the most  consequential thing that this Congress can do, we have a voice--the  Representatives of the people, the Article I authority.

Let's set aside Venezuela. I won't use that term again. Let's stand  up for our constitutional rights to be consulted for what may happen  tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or next week. Not much surprises me  anymore.

Mr. Speaker, I have watched my majority friends completely abandon  their policy positions, brutally anti-immigration because of this  President, obliterating free trade, completely leaving behind  everything that the Republican Party used to stand for, praising  Vladimir Putin, and attacking our NATO allies.

Mr. Speaker, policy flexibility is not the worst thing in the world.  I wish it weren't happening because of the reason that it is happening,  but policy flexibility is one thing. Yet abrogating your constitutional  duty to be consulted into authorized force and then to be mocked for  it, shame, sir. Shame.

We need to stand up as an institution and say that we get consulted  on the most consequential things that we can do.