Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Presidentially Designated Terrorist Organizations in the Western Hemisphere


Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I came down here to debate something that this Chamber  has been debating for generations, which is the push and pull between  the Congress and the Chief Executive on the use of our military.

I was profoundly disturbed to hear the chairman denigrate the ranking  member. To suggest that he doesn't care about the losses in his  district, to suggest that we want the President to do nothing about  narcotics, he knows that is not true. I will tell the chairman that I  have opposed every Presidential attempt to use the American Armed  Forces without congressional approval since I have been here.

This is about one thing, and it is not about the comity of this  institution or the dignity that the majority should show in such a  debate. This is about one thing and one thing only. It is not about the  horrors of drug abuse.

We know that over here. There is not a Democrat who doesn't believe  that 100,000 overdoses is an appalling outcome. There is not a Democrat  here who doesn't experience the crushing, disgusting horror of those  losses. We couldn't agree with the majority more that this is a huge  problem.

What this is about is whether the Representatives of the people  should be involved in a discussion about how we solve this problem--the  Constitution says so--and the questions raised here.

For the first time in 250 years, the United States military is  deliberately targeting civilians. They may be awful civilians, I will  grant you that, but they are deliberately targeting civilians. We have  the largest military force ever assembled in the Caribbean, with no  discussion, no debate in this Chamber amongst the Representatives of  the people.

The administration has created a war that is not a war, a non- international armed conflict. It is a war inasmuch as we have an  aircraft carrier and massive amounts of military hardware in the  region, and we have killed upward of 100 people in 23, 24 strikes. Yet,  it is not a war that needs to be even informed to the Congress.

The only question that matters--and you can show all the pictures of  decapitations, horror, and overdoses. We will stand with you 100  percent about how horrible that is, but do you know what else is  horrible? That the majority is comfortable with the removal of the  Representatives of the people on this most consequential of issues.

Let's agree that there will be a Democratic President someday who  does something that the majority doesn't agree with, but every word  they say here today will unbind the hands of that Democratic President  to do whatever he or she wants.

This is about our privileges as the Representatives of the people.  This is about our fidelity to the Constitution of the United States  that demands us to have this debate.

Let's stop trying to scare the American people, and for the first  time in a very long time, let's stand up with the dignity and decency  that this topic deserves and debate how we are going to address this  huge problem while preserving our privileges and prerogatives as  Representatives of all the American people.