Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2025


Ms. GILLEN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California for  yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4275, the bipartisan Coast  Guard Authorization Act of 2025, which includes my provision to improve  navigation in the East Rockaway Inlet off the South Shore of Long  Island and to strengthen maritime drug enforcement in our waters.

Madam Speaker, East Rockaway Inlet is a critical Federal navigation  channel, which Long Islanders rely on for both commercial and  recreational boating and fishing. While the U.S. Army Corps of  Engineers is responsible for maintenance dredging of the inlet, the  Coast Guard maintains the markers and the buoys to aid in navigation  and to keep boaters safe.

Unfortunately, I have heard from many of my constituents that due to  shoaling, the water is too shallow in many parts of the inlet, and the  buoys there are missing or misplaced, making it difficult for boaters  and fishermen to safely navigate the channel. Incorrectly placed buoys  and markers could cause boats to run aground in the sand, threaten  commercial towing through the channel, and undermine safe navigation  for all.

My amendment, which is included in section 283 of this bill, would  require the Commandant of the Coast Guard to examine this issue and  report to Congress with concrete recommendations to address hazards in  the East Rockaway Inlet and present a plan to update the aids to  navigation there to keep boaters safe.

I am grateful to Chairman Graves and Ranking Member Larsen for  including this amendment, and I look forward to working together with  the Coast Guard on this important issue.

Madam Speaker, this bill will also strengthen our national security  and support the men and women I met at the Coast Guard Station in Jones  Beach. This bipartisan bill will ensure  that the Coast Guard has the resources that it needs to keep our shores  and our communities secure.

I am especially glad that this legislation includes a commonsense,  bipartisan bill I cosponsored with my Republican colleague from North  Carolina, Representative Addison McDowell, to help the Coast Guard  respond to opioid overdoses.

Our brave Coast Guardsmen are the first line of defense against  illegal drug trafficking on our waters, and this legislation will  ensure that they have the tools that they need to combat opioid  overdoses and close loopholes that drug traffickers seek to exploit.

Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in  supporting this important bill.