National Police Week


Ms. GILLEN. Mr. Speaker, in recognition of National Police Week, and  on behalf of New York's Fourth Congressional District, I am proud to  stand here today to honor our brave men and women in law enforcement.  Every day, our officers are on the front lines of the most urgent  public safety challenges in service to our community.

When disaster strikes and people are in need, our law enforcement  officers are the first to respond. Despite the risks, the long hours,  and the constant stress, hundreds of thousands of officers wake up each  day, put on their badge, and answer the call. They do it for us, for  our loved ones, and for our communities.

This week serves as a solemn reminder of the dangers that our  officers face daily. Without law enforcement, we would not enjoy the  security we often take for granted. With courage and with bravery, our  officers run toward danger every day to keep us and our loved ones  safe.

Today, we honor Nassau County's own who gave their lives in the line  of duty. Among them are Officers Erick Contreras, Christopher Cizmarik,  Kevin Canavan, and Philip Schifini of the Nassau County Police  Department who bravely served our community on 9/11, one of the darkest  days in American history.

In the aftermath of the worst terrorist attack on American soil, they  are among the brave first responders who ran toward danger, working  tirelessly among the toxic rubble at Ground Zero. Years later, all four  would tragically lose their lives caused by the toxins that they were  exposed to in their heroic efforts. This is a painful reminder of the  lasting cost of their selfless service.

Unfortunately, thousands of our heroic law enforcement officers,  firefighters, and emergency personnel who bravely answered the call on  the darkest day in our Nation's history continue to suffer from life- threatening cancers, respiratory diseases, and other debilitating  conditions from the toxins at Ground Zero.

That is why I was proud to help reintroduce the bipartisan 9/11  Responder and Survivor Health Funding Correction Act, which would  permanently fix the current funding shortfalls in the World Trade  Center Health Program.

We owe it to our 9/11 first responders to ensure that the programs  they rely on will be fully funded and fully staffed.

In addition, last year, we also lost Officer Jonathan Diller who  proudly served with the NYPD. Tragically, he was killed last year while  conducting a routine traffic stop in Queens.

In just 3 years on the force, Detective Diller made over 70 arrests  and was honored with three Excellent Police Duty medals. His colleagues  remember him as a bright, positive presence, always eager to learn,  deeply dedicated, and truly passionate about the job he loved.

The names I mentioned are not just names on a list. They were  fathers, brothers, sons, and friends. They were pillars in their  department and in their communities, whose courage will never be  forgotten, and their sacrifice will never be in vain.

On behalf of all of Long Island, we will never forget those who laid  down their lives in service to others. As we mark Police Week, may God  bless the officers who gave up their lives to keep Americans safe and  may He give their loved ones comfort.

Mr. Speaker, I thank, honor, and stand with all of our officers,  past, present, and future.