Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698624/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-air-plan-approval-south-dakota


Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to come to  the floor and talk about a couple of things.

Earlier today, we had a classified briefing on the situation in  Venezuela. I have to say that I am very impressed and thankful for the  expertise, the resources, and the work that was done by the men and  women on the ground. It was truly an extraordinary operation that  couldn't have been done by any other nation other than the United  States.

As for those who were injured, I understand they are recovering and  that some have been released from the hospital. I hope they heal up  safely and  that they know that we are eternally grateful for their bringing a  transnational criminal to justice--hopefully so--as he goes through our  court system.                                     NATO

Mr. President, I am also here to talk about what I think is  amateurish behavior with respect to the treatment of our NATO allies.  It has to start with an interview that I saw with one of the  President's senior policy advisers, Stephen Miller, on CNN, a couple of  nights ago.

Mr. Miller said that the U.S. Government--``obviously, Greenland  should be part of the United States.''

That is absurd. We have to go back and take a look at the  relationship to Greenland.

Why am I coming to the floor, a Senator from North Carolina? Because  since 2018, I have been the Republican leader for the Senate NATO  Observer Group. I have gone to every NATO conference. I have gone to  the security conference. I have met with almost all of the leaders of  the countries that are part of the 32-nation coalition known as NATO,  the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

Now, let's talk about why I think it was an amateurish comment and  something that a Deputy Chief of Staff and senior policy adviser should  not have taken the position on.

No. 1, he doesn't speak for the U.S. Government. He speaks for the  President of the United States, and on that basis, he can. But when he  says that the U.S. Government thinks that Greenland should be a part of  NATO, he should talk to people like me who have an election certificate  and a vote in the U.S. Senate, because I know what he either doesn't  know or he should know, and if he did know, I can't imagine why he  would make the comments that he did the other night in a television  interview.

Let me give you some facts about Denmark, for example. Denmark, which  has responsibility for Greenland--although, Greenland is an autonomous  territory under NATO. It is a part of the Kingdom of Denmark.

But let's talk about Denmark for a minute. Denmark was one of NATO's  most disproportionately high contributors in Afghanistan, relative to  its population, size, and force structure.

What do I mean there? There has been one time in the 75-year history  of NATO that the NATO allies responded to the article 5 commitment,  which means when one of our NATO allies is attacked, we go there to  defend them. It has been exercised one time in the history of the  alliance to come to the aid of the United States and the War on Terror  in Afghanistan.

Since their first mission began, more than 18,000 Danish soldiers  have deployed to Afghanistan with American and British forces.  Throughout their deployments in Afghanistan, 43 of their soldiers lost  their lives fighting alongside American soldiers, defending our freedom  and holding the Taliban and al-Qaida responsible for the events of  September 11.

Forty-three soldiers losing their lives--there are only about five or  six NATO countries who lost more. And what is remarkable about this is  this is a country of about 6 million people. On a per capita basis,  Denmark suffered over six times the fatality rate of Germany and more  than three times the fatality rate of France, matching or exceeding the  losses of much larger allies with far greater resources.

So despite its small military, Denmark has deployed forces to some of  the most dangerous, kinetic combat zones, particularly Helmand  Province, fighting alongside UK units at the height of the insurgency.  Danish forces accepted frontline combat roles--some lost their lives as  a result of it--not low-risk symbolic missions.

For a small democracy, sustaining this level of risk over more than a  decade reflects a serious commitment to NATO and a serious commitment  to the safety and security of the United States.

Marines  be printed in the Record.

Since their first mission began, more than 18,000 Danish       soldiers have deployed to Afghanistan with American and       British Forces. Throughout their deployments in Afghanistan,       43 soldiers were killed in action.

That is among the highest per-capita losses in the Alliance       (second only to Estonia).

On a per-capita basis, Denmark suffered over six times the       fatality rate of Germany and more than three times that of       France, matching or exceeding losses of much larger Allies       with far greater resources.

Despite its small military, Denmark deployed forces to some       of the most kinetic combat zones, particularly Helmand       Province, fighting alongside UK units at the height of the       insurgency. Danish forces accepted front-line combat roles,       not low-risk or symbolic missions.

For a small democracy, sustaining this level of risk over       more than a decade reflects serious Alliance resolve.

Casualties (by current NATO members):

United States: 2,461; United Kingdom: 457; Canada: 159;       France: 90; Germany: 62; Italy: 53; Poland: 44; Denmark: 43;       Spain: 35; Romania: 27; Netherlands: 25; Turkey: 15; Czech       Republic: 14; Norway: 10; Estonia: 9; Hungary: 7; Sweden: 5       (partner at the time); Latvia: 4; Slovakia: 3; Finland: 2       (partner at the time); Portugal: 2; Albania: 2; Belgium,       Bulgaria, Croatia, Lithuania, Montenegro: 1 each; Greece,       Iceland, Luxembourg, North Macedonia, Slovenia: 0 recorded       deaths.

Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, some people around here call me cranky. I  have got a couple of buddies that call me cranky.

Do you know what makes me cranky? Stupid. What makes me cranky is  when people don't do their homework. What makes me cranky is when we  tarnish the extraordinary execution of a mission of fully supporting  Venezuela by turning around and making insane comments about how it is  our right to have territory owned by the Kingdom of Denmark.

Folks, amateur hour is over. You don't speak on behalf of this U.S.  Senator or the Congress. You can say it may be the position of the  President of the United States that Greenland should be a part of the  United States, but it is not the position of this government because we  are a coequal branch. And if that were to come to pass, there would be  a vote on the floor to make it real, not this surreal sort of  environment that some Deputy Chief of Staff thinks was cute to say on  TV.

So you want to get me back to thanking the President for all the good  things he is doing? Then give him good advice.

One of two things happened with Greenland. Either, one, the President  came up with the idea that maybe we should have Greenland as a part of  our assets, and somebody said that is a great idea, versus saying: Mr.  President, take a look at our alliance. Take a look at the most  important alliance in the history of the United States, the NATO  alliance. This could actually destabilize that, Mr. President. Mr.  President, you should know, at one point, we had 17 military  installations in Greenland, and they would be happy to have us back.  They are not refusing to allow us to have access to project power into  the Arctic. We could do it without taking over a NATO country.

That is the sort of advice that should have been given. So if the  President thought it was a good idea, then he needs the experts to say:  Mr. President, that is why this is not a good idea.

I would defy you to find any credible general with a star on his  shoulder who would say that it is because they understand that the NATO  alliance is what has kept this Nation largely--or this world--largely  safe for over 75 years.

The flip side could be that Mr. Miller or somebody else there said:  Hey, this would be cool. Let's take over Greenland. It will be like a  big aircraft carrier.

Well, that is stupid too. I am sick of stupid. I want good advice for  this President because I want this President to have a good legacy.  This nonsense on what is going on with Greenland is a distraction from  the good work he is doing, and the amateurs who said it was a good idea  should lose their jobs.