Senate Democrats Call Out Speaker Pelosi's Refusal To Send Articles of Impeachment to the Senate


Today, Speaker Nancy Pelosi once again refused to commit to when she will send the articles of impeachment to the Senate, an indefinite delay now at 22 days and counting following the House's partisan impeachment vote.

Senator Thom Tillis penned an op-ed this week highlighting how House Democrats have lost the "urgency" that they claimed was their justification for rushing through the impeachment process. Now, many Senate Democrats are echoing the call for Speaker Pelosi to send over the articles of impeachment so the Senate can begin the trial. 

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has made it clear that the Senate will operate using similar bipartisan rules established for the Clinton impeachment trial, rules that unanimously passed the Senate 100-0 at the time. 

"Speaker Pelosi knows that House Democrats deliberately rushed through their impeachment process and produced a weak case against President Trump, which is why she is embarrassed to present their evidence to the Senate," said Senator Tillis. "There is clear bipartisan consensus in the Senate that it's time for House Democrats to end the delay and their political posturing and allow the Senate to begin the impeachment trial. If and when House Democrats stop wasting the nation's time and forge the courage to send over the articles of impeachment, the Senate will fulfill its constitutional obligation by examining the evidence collected by the House, hearing from both sides, and then rendering a verdict."

What Senate Democrats Are Saying About Speaker Pelosi's Impeachment Delay

Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA): "The longer it goes on the less urgent it becomes. So, if it's serious and urgent, send them over. If it isn't, don't send it over."

Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT): "I think the time has passed. She should send the articles over."

Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT): "We are reaching a point where the articles of impeachment should be sent."  

Senator Chris Coons (D-DE): "I do think it is time to get on with it" 

Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV): "I think it needs to start, I really do."

Senator Doug Jones (D-AL): "I'm hoping they will come over here soon. I think most people are ready to get moving on this."

Senator Jon Tester (D-MT): "I don't know what leverage we have. It looks like the cake is already baked."

Senator Angus King (I-ME): "It is time for the speaker to send the articles."