Tillis Co-Sponsors Bipartisan Bill To Help the Families of First Responders Lost To COVID-19


Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored bipartisan legislation to ensure families of public safety officers lost to COVID-19 can quickly access survivor benefits. The Safeguarding America's First Responders Act (SAFR) clarifies the certification requirements for survivor benefits under the Public Safety Officers Benefits Program to account for the unique challenges presented by the pandemic.

"As North Carolinians continue staying inside to keep themselves and their families safe from COVID-19, our brave first responders simply do not have that option," said Senator Tillis. "Every day local law enforcement, school resource officers, and firefighters protect our communities, potentially exposing themselves to the virus, and unfortunately, some losing their battle with it. I will never stop fighting for our heroes, which is why I am proud to work with my colleagues across the aisle to ensure family members of every first responder lost to coronavirus has quick access to the benefits they deserve."

The Public Safety Officers Benefits Program, administered by the Justice Department, provides death benefits to survivors of police officers and first responders who perish in the line of duty or as the result of a work-related event. The program requires evidence linking deaths caused by an infectious disease to work-related activity. In many cases, the origin of an infection can be easily identified, but determining where and when someone contracts COVID-19 in the midst of a global pandemic presents a unique challenge.

SAFR works to overcome this challenge by establishing a temporary presumption that COVID-19 infections will be considered to be contracted while on duty if diagnosed within 45 days of an officer's last shift. The legislation ensures that families of officers and first responders lost while fighting the pandemic don't face unnecessary barriers to benefits they've already been promised. The legislation is endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, National Association of Police Officers, Federal Law Enforcement Officer Association, the International Association of Fire Fighters, the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the Sergeants Benevolent Association of New York and the National Association of School Resource Officers.