Tillis Releases Plan To Hold China Accountable For COVID-19 And Protect America's Economy, Public Health, And National Security


Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) unveiled a detailed 18-point plan to hold the Chinese government accountable for its lies, deception, and cover-ups that ultimately led to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Tillis' plan also offers solutions to protect America's economy, public health, and national security from threats posed by the Chinese government.

Senator Tillis' full plan of action to hold the Chinese government accountable can be found here, which includes details about Tillis' proposals, as well as a timeline and summary of the Chinese government's gross misconduct.

"The Chinese government maliciously covered up and enabled a global pandemic that has caused misery for so many Americans. This is the same regime that locks up its own citizens in labor camps, steals America's technology and jobs, and threatens the sovereignty of our allies," said Senator Tillis. "This is a major wake-up call to the United States and the rest of the free world. My plan of action will hold the Chinese government accountable for lying about COVID-19, sanctioning the Chinese government while also protecting America's economy, public health, and national security." 

SUMMARY OF THE TILLIS PLAN TO HOLD THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE FOR COVID-19

PROTECT AMERICA'S ECONOMY FROM CHINA

1.      Move manufacturing back to the U.S. from China and gradually eliminate our supply chain dependency on China.

2.      Stop China from stealing our technology and provide incentives to American companies to regain our technological advantage.

3.      Strengthen cybersecurity against Chinese hacks and sabotage.

4.      Prevent American taxpayer money from being used by the Chinese government to pay off their debt.

5.      Implement the U.S. ban on Huawei and coordinate with our allies to implement similar bans.

SANCTION CHINA

6.      Seek restitution from the Chinese government and impose sanctions for lying about the virus.

7.      Sanction China for their atrocious human rights record.

8.      Formally request the IOC to withdraw the 2022 Winter Olympics from Beijing.

9.      Stop China's propaganda campaign inside the United States.

10.   Treat Chinese government-run media outlets as the propaganda proxies that they are.

INVESTIGATE CHINA

11.   Investigate the Chinese government's cover-up of the spread of COVID-19.

12.   Investigate America's reliance on China's supply chains and threats to public safety and national security.

INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY

13.   Ensure the independence of the WHO through investigations and reform.

14.   Expose and counter China's predatory debt-trap diplomacy targeting developing countries.

15.   Increase intelligence sharing on potential pandemics and lead the creation of a watchdog organization to monitor foreign governments' handling of deadly viruses. 

EXPAND AMERICA'S MILITARY PRESENCE IN ASIA TO COUNTER CHINA

16.   Create a Pacific Deterrence Initiative and immediately approve the military's request for $20 billion in funding to deter China.

17.   Deepen our military ties with regional allies and expand equipment sales to Taiwan, India, and Vietnam.

18.   Encourage Japan to rebuild its military and offer Japan and South Korea sales of offensive military equipment.