Tillis Announces $378 Million in Funding to Assist North Carolina's Higher Education Institutions and Students


Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced the U.S. Department of Education will award $378,297,277 to 142 North Carolina colleges, universities, and post-secondary institutions. The funding comes from the Higher Education Relief Fund established in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act supported by Senator Tillis. Included in the more than $378 million allocation to North Carolina is $189,148,674 that will be distributed immediately to provide direct emergency cash grants to college students for expenses related to disruptions to their education due to the Coronavirus outbreak. "The coronavirus pandemic caused extensive disruption and financial hardship to higher education institutions and students across the country," said Senator Tillis. "This funding will quickly move out the door to students in North Carolina who face unexpected financial expenses and need assistance now. This direct relief to students will help to prevent disruptions to our students' studies and the pursuit to their academic and professional goals." Allocation of the grants can be found HERE. The CARES Act provides nearly $14 billion to support post-secondary education students and institutions. Colleges and universities are required to utilize the $6.28 billion made available today to provide cash grants to students for expenses related to disruptions to their educations due to the COVID-19 outbreak, including things like course materials and technology as well as food, housing, health care, and childcare. In order to access the funds, the Department must receive a signed certification from the higher education institution affirming they will distribute the funds in accordance with applicable law. The college or university will then determine which students will receive the cash grants. This funding will be distributed by universities to students to use for technology, course materials, housing, food and health care. More information on the Emergency Cash Grants can be found HERE.