Tillis Discusses Plan to Hold China Accountable for COVID-19 and Protect America's Economy, Public Health, and National Security


Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released a video discussing his plan to hold the Chinese government accountable for its lies, deception, and cover-ups that ultimately led to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Tillis' plan also offers solutions to protect America's economy, public health, and national security from threats posed by the Chinese government.

Transcript:

We've all witnessed the devastating impact of COVID-19.  Hundreds of thousands of people have lost their lives and the economic crisis has caused 30 million Americans to lose their jobs.

We also know this became a global pandemic because of the lies and cover-ups of the communist Chinese government.

One study found that if China told the truth and acted only 3 weeks earlier, cases of the virus could have been cut by 95 percent and we could have avoided this pandemic.

But China wasn't honest or responsible.

So now we must hold the Chinese government accountable for causing the spread of COVID-19 by lying to the world about it.

That's why I'm introducing a plan that will hold China accountable.  It's a plan that will protect our economy, our public health, and our national security.

It's a plan that protects America's economy by moving our manufacturing back home and stopping China from stealing our technology.

It's a plan that sanctions the Chinese government for lying about the virus, and it punishes China for its tragic human rights record and its anti-American disinformation campaign. 

It's a plan to coordinate with our allies to prevent the next pandemic. And, it proposes ways we can deter China's military ambitions against America and our allies. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated why we cannot trust the Chinese government. My plan is tough, but it's necessary.

We must hold China accountable. Because if we don't, there will be more lies, there will be more malign actions, and there will be another pandemic.

To read my full plan, please visit my website at tillis.senate.gov.