United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, in addition to my strong and unequivocal  support for the USMCA, I note that my committee is about to undertake a  yearlong review of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, with the goal  of modernizing it. 

  Back in 1998, the internet was still a fledgling industry, so much so  that it is difficult to recall a time when email was a novel form of  communication and you could go take a coffee break in  hopes that the web page you wanted would have fully loaded on your  computer by the time you returned. It was in this era that the DMCA  attempted to strike a reasonable balance between content creators and  the operators of online billboards. The DMCA offered immunity to new,  emerging platforms in exchange for reasonable enforcement efforts,  including quickly taking down copyrighted materials they learned about  violations. In 1998, there were no iPhones. There was no Facebook and  no YouTube. Netflix opened that year as a mail-order DVD store. For a  time, the DMCA worked. 

  President Trump has led the way to establish a new paradigm for trade  agreements that protect American interests, and the USMCA provides for  long overdue updates to NAFTA, but the mechanisms of the DMCA to deter  copyright infringement need to be updated. Technology has changed  faster than anyone could have ever imagined, and the existing DMCA  simply isn't able to address these new developments. The original DMCA  was simply not designed for the kind of global data and advertising  platforms that we have seen develop over time. As is so often the case,  the technology has outpaced the law. 

  I intend to hold a series of hearings this year to explore whether  the DMCA needs updating in order to promote the creative economy in the  21st century. This work is critical to North Carolina jobs in the  creative sector. For example, the motion picture and television  industry is directly responsible for more than 19,000 jobs in North  Carolina, representing more than $1 billion in wages in the State.  Productions like the series ``Reprisal'' and the upcoming film Uncle  Frank were made in North Carolina in 2019. The good, high-wage jobs in  the film and television industry, from directors, musicians, and  actors, to drivers, makeup artists, painters, and set decorators, are  at risk if the products they make lose money due to internet theft. 

  Without prejudging what changes may be necessary to the DMCA, it is  important that our future trade agreements can keep up with the  advances of U.S. copyright law. I look forward to working together with  my colleagues in the House and Senate and with the White House to  ensure we improve the DMCA and create more export opportunities for  U.S. businesses and workers in the process. As always, our trade  agreements and our copyright law should do all they can to create good  incentives and empower market forces to solve problems. 

  Mr. President, I applaud the inclusion of national treatment language  in this agreement, requiring nondiscriminatory treatment of American  creators and their goods. 

  This protects many American goods, of course, but I want to make  special note that the inclusion of this provision in USMCA will help  undo one particular instance of discrimination/unfair treatment against  American creators. It will help ensure that American music creators are  fairly compensated when their recordings are played in Canada and  Mexico. 

  Our expectation is that American performers will see an increase in  royalty compensation as a result. As it stands today, Canadian artists  receive all royalties due under U.S. law for the use of sound  recordings here. Those royalties totaled nearly a billion dollars last  year for all recordings. 

  We afford the recordings of all foreign nationals with the same  rights due for the recordings of American artists. In Canada, however,  royalties collected for radio airplay and other nondigital public  performances of sound recordings made by Americans currently are NOT  shared with the American performers who create them. 

  I encourage the administration to ensure inclusion of this protection  for American creators in all trade agreements going forward. American  music is by far the most listened to in the world, and we should do all  we can to ensure our American music creators are treated fairly by our  trade partners.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT