Video: Tillis Calls for National Unity to Provide Justice for George Floyd and End Violence Across America


Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released a video statement on George Floyd and the protests that have taken place across the nation.

Senator Tillis on violent riots:

"Over the past week, we've witnessed peaceful demonstrations rightfully demanding justice for George Floyd that were co-opted by violent rioters. Unlike the demonstrators, the rioters are not peacefully calling for change. They are encouraging acts of domestic terror through assault, vandalism, and looting. They are responsible for destroying communities and livelihoods already devasted by COVID-19.This is not the America we know and love. The violence and the madness must stop. Every elected official has an obligation to condemn this violence and call for the restoration of law and order. Peacefully demanding justice and condemning this violence are not mutually exclusive. We can and we must do both."

Senator Tillis on the murder of George Floyd:

"George Floyd -- an unarmed black man -- was suffocated and killed by a police officer as he was pleading for air. This murder was horrific and it was disgraceful. George Floyd and his loved ones deserve justice and the officers involved in this killing must be held fully accountable by our legal system. This is not the first tragic video we've seen, and it's symbolic of a bigger problem we have in our country. Many law-abiding Americans feel fear and distrust when they see a police officer simply because of the color of their skin. No American should ever have to live in fear. And every American -- regardless of their race or income -- deserves to live in a community safely. We must address this problem and we must do better."

Senator Tillis on the United States moving forward:

"This is a difficult time in our nation. We're facing an unprecedented pandemic that has taken the lives of a hundred thousand Americans and caused tremendous damage to our economy. Many North Carolinians are hurting right now, and the video only causes more pain. That's why now, more than ever, it's imperative for us to come together. We cannot allow senseless violence of rioters to further divide us."