-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700893/9999


Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and recognize a true  example of resiliency, generosity and commitment to serving others:  LaVon Stennis-Williams from Omaha, Nebraska.

LaVon is a woman of many titles--attorney, author, entrepreneur, and  mentor. But perhaps her most defining characteristic is her unwavering  commitment to the idea that our past does not define our future, and  that history, when preserved, can be a powerful tool for healing.

A graduate of Creighton University with both her Bachelor's and Juris  Doctor degrees, LaVon has spent her life building bridges. In 2012,  drawing from her own personal journey, she founded ReConnect, Inc. This  non-profit has served over 500 individuals, helping those currently or  formerly incarcerated navigate the difficult transition back into  society. Through her ``Success Prep'' curriculum, she teaches a  philosophy that our communities desperately need: the mindset of being  ``better, not bitter.''

But LaVon's service to Omaha doesn't stop at professional  development. She understands that to move forward, we must also look  back. She transformed her private doll collection into The Doll Museum  of African-American History. This museum, which is open to the public  free of charge, houses a collection of over 3,000 historic dolls.

Far more than simple artifacts, these figures serve as a unique lens  through which people can examine three centuries of Black history and  culture. By meticulously curating this exhibit, Ms. Stennis-Williams  offers our community--and particularly our youth--a tangible connection  to the past.

Her efforts ensure that the legacy of African-American resilience,  creativity, and heritage is not only preserved but remains a living,  breathing part of our public education. This museum stands as a  testament to her belief that understanding where we have been is  essential to determining where we are going.

Whether she is writing children's books to honor the legacy of the  Tuskegee Airmen through her publishing house, TwoBee Publishing, or  coaching a client toward a new career path, LaVon Stennis-Williams is a  builder of dreams.

LaVon Stennis-Williams has made extraordinary contributions to  Nebraska's 2nd District and we are grateful for her tireless work in  preserving our Nation's history while empowering its future.