Recognizing Amanda Brewer for Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689058/recognizing-amanda-brewer-for-womens-history-month


Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize for Women's History  Month, Amanda Brewer, Chief Executive Officer of Habitat for Humanity  of Omaha, who has the heart of service for her community. Amanda was  raised in Norfolk, Nebraska by her parents Michael and Kathleen  Jedlicka, graduating from Norfolk Catholic High School, where she was  instilled with the values of service, compassion, and community. She is  married to her husband Kelly, and they have a pre-teen daughter, Lydia.

Amanda went on to graduate from DePaul University. Still, in 1997,  she felt a call to serve and address inequities in the world that she  had become aware of. So, she dropped everything and moved from the  corporate world in Chicago to Georgia, where she became a full-time  volunteer with Habitat for Humanity International.

Returning to Nebraska in 1999, she joined Habitat for Humanity of  Omaha as an associate director. Six years later, she was named CEO and  has served in that role faithfully and with a dedicated vision.

Becoming the top-ranked affiliate in families served in the U.S.,  Habitat for Humanity of Omaha has achieved remarkable growth and impact  under Amanda's leadership. The organization serves five eastern  Nebraska counties, has built and renovated thousands of homes, and  developed transformative programs that empower families and strengthen  communities.

Amanda knows that preserving communities goes beyond simply building  homes. She has provided opportunities for families to create  generational wealth through innovations such as education programs for  homeowners about wealth transfer and heirs' rights. She has also  implemented covenants to ensure long-term affordability through  property tax limits and advocacy efforts. Her vision for communities  also includes pioneering affordable housing initiatives, advocating for  equitable homeownership opportunities, and launching partnerships far  beyond traditional boundaries.

These accomplishments are monumental but not what Amanda cherishes  most: the kindness and humanity she has seen in others during her 27  years of service. She fully embraces the idea that everyone has  something valuable to offer and talents to share.

Answering the call to serve is an honorable quality in a person, and  Amanda's story of courage, compassion, and commitment to others is a  testimony to the power one person can have when they answer that call.  Generations of families will feel the ripple effect from her work  leading Habitat for Humanity Omaha. She truly reflects a life that  shows when someone shifts from receiving to giving, a world can be  created where everyone has hope, equity, and opportunity to thrive.