Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695259/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. BACON. Mr. Chair, I 100 percent support the Baltic Security  Initiative. All three countries are our best friends. They embrace  freedom, democracy, free markets, and the rule of law, and no one has  embraced our values like these Baltic States.

These countries are on the front lines with Russia. They see the  treachery of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and know very well they could  be next.

Why don't the political appointees in the Pentagon see this? It is  clear to most that this is the case.

Every family in the Baltics knows someone shot by the Soviets or sent  to Siberia to die. They have had this experience. The Baltic people  know the harsh reality of living under the Russian thumb and know they  could be next if Ukraine falls.

The Baltics lead the way on defense spending. They spend more on  defense per GDP than the United States. They spend more on Ukraine per  GDP than us.

This amendment is necessary because there are some appointees in the  Pentagon who have embraced the foolish policy of decoupling from Europe  and weakening our leadership in NATO. We have got to stand opposed to  this. We need to use our Article I powers today and be counted for what  we believe in.

What happens if we withdraw from the Baltics? No one will be more  happy than Russia's Putin. Secondly, deterrence will be weakened, and  war in Europe becomes more likely if we withdraw.

Strong support for the Baltic Security Initiative is a vote for  deterrence. It is a vote to stand by our allies and to oppose a  dictator who is invading his neighbors.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to how much  time is remaining.

Mr. BACON. Mr. Chairman, I stand 100 percent opposed to this  amendment. I am a Reagan and Eisenhower Republican and a post-World War  II conservative. I believe in peace through strength, strong allies,  and that we are the world's leader in defense of freedom; and we do not  cower to bullies.

Russia invaded Ukraine because it wants what they call Little Russia  to be their vassal state. Ukrainians have suffered for decades and  centuries under Russia. Four million Ukrainians were killed alone in  the 1930s purposefully.

A Ukrainian victory is in our national security interests. A thriving  Ukraine that is a democracy with free markets is in our national  security interests. If Ukraine falls, then you can assume that Moldova,  Georgia, and others will also fall. Russia will also threaten the  Baltic countries. Our military aid is necessary and cost effective. If  we lose here, it will cost a lot more.

I remind us that the Russians are bombing cities every single day,  kidnapping kids, and murdering POWs. We have to stand on the right side  of this issue. We are on the side of freedom.

It is not conservative to appease Putin, nor is it conservative to  have a lack of moral clarity of who is at fault in this war. It is not  a conservative position to embrace isolationism.

Mr. Chairman, I stand with two-thirds of America, and I oppose this  amendment.