Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695141/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. BACON. Madam Chair, I thank the chairman and the ranking member  of the committee for their thoughtful leadership in navigating us  toward passing this bill.

Madam Chair, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3838, our  National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2026. The 2026 NDAA  emphasizes ensuring the lethality of the U.S. Armed Forces by reforming  the acquisition process to deliver innovative equipment to the  warfighter at speed and scale.

It does so by accelerating the requirements process to reduce  decision timelines from 3 years to 3 months, by making other  transaction authorities more easily available for prototyping, and by  cutting red tape through eliminating duplicative reporting  requirements.

As the chairman of the Subcommittee on Cyber, Information  Technologies, and Innovation, I have worked tirelessly to deliver the  best and most cutting-edge technology to our servicemembers.

This bill authorizes $142.6 billion for research, development,  testing, and evaluation to field essential technologies, like  hypersonics, AI, and autonomous vehicles, to win the wars of tomorrow.

China has a cyber force that is 10 times that of the United States.  China and Russia are attacking our networks every single day. The  threat in the cyberspace domain is real, and this legislation reflects  that reality and takes essential steps to address it.

We could not have accomplished this without the tireless dedication  and efforts of the subcommittee staff, Sarah Moxley, Caroline Kehrli,  Andrew Smith, Brooke Alred, Mireya Jurado, Michael Hermann, and Wendell  White.

I also thank our ranking member, Ro Khanna, for working in a  bipartisan and friendly manner.

This NDAA helps small businesses by fast-tracking promising  technologies, establishing a pilot program to test and procure  technologies that bolster operational capabilities, and incentivizing  the consideration of commercial off-the-shelf products prior to  entering expensive contracts.

Madam Chair, I encourage my colleagues to support this NDAA.