Welcoming the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople, His All Holiness Bartholomew


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695924/welcoming-the-ecumenical-patriarch-of-constantinople-his-all-holiness-bartholomew


Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of my constituents at St. John the  Baptist Greek Orthodox Church in Omaha, I would like to welcome their  Spiritual Leader, the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople, His All  Holiness Bartholomew, to the United States. He is visiting the United  States next week to meet with the president and members of the House  and Senate Leadership and to receive the revered Templeton Prize.

Known as the ``Green Patriarch,'' he is well known for his efforts to  promote ecology and the protection of the environment. He has been at  the forefront of religious freedom and bringing together others from  many faiths to work towards better cooperation and understanding.  Through dialogue and visitations, the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew  has significantly advanced Orthodox relations with the Roman Catholics,  Lutherans, Baptists, and others through visitations and open dialogues.

In addition, His All Holiness has visited several Orthodox Nations  that were part of communist Eastern Europe to strengthen his contacts  and relations with various Orthodox national churches there.

The Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew has brought together Christians,  Muslims, and Jews at international peace conferences and meetings to  advance greater cooperation and mutual understanding. His efforts to  promote mutual respect and religious tolerance included having  theological conversations with Muslim and Jewish leaders.

His push for peace includes calling out both the Russian state and  the Russian church for the invasion of Ukraine. In Ecumenical Patriarch  Bartholomew's opinion, he says, ``This is the theology that the sister  Church of Russia began to teach, trying to justify an unjust, unholy,  unprovoked, diabolical war against a sovereign and independent  country--Ukraine.''

The Ecumenical Patriarch is a figure who has addressed the European  Parliament and the U.S. Congress (in 1997 when he received the  Congressional Gold Medal), and has met Heads of State in Great Britain,  Canada, South America, Greece, Russia, Norway, Finland, Serbia,  Romania, Bulgaria, Albania, Ethiopia, Korea, and Cuba. As Ecumenical  Patriarch (the only Christian Leader in the world who is considered  equal to the Pope of Rome in honor), he has met with every Pontiff  since John Paul II, including Leo XIV. He has also traveled to Libya,  Syria, Egypt, Iran, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Qatar, and Bahrain, and met  with both political and religious figures in those Islamic countries,  many of whom no other Christian hierarch of such stature has ever  visited.

I welcome His All Holiness to the United States, and I congratulate  him on his well-deserved honor.