Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I thank the ranking member of the  Appropriations Committee for yielding.

Madam Speaker, there are five of these bills which are not  controversial. I urge my colleagues to vote for them to keep the  government operating, to make sure that our Federal employees come to  work and do their job for the American people and get paid for it.

There is one bill in this package that is very controversial. There  is one bill in this package that the overwhelming majority of our side  thinks should not be in the bill, but I remind my colleagues that bill  is funded for the next 10 days or 6 legislative days. During that  period of time, we intend to raise very substantial concerns about the  operations that are being carried out not only in Minneapolis but in  other parts  of our country by the Immigration Customs and Border Patrol agents.

The Constitution calls upon us to establish justice and ensure  domestic tranquility. Many of my colleagues I know believe that voting  against this bill will make a strong statement about the conduct that  we see being carried out by the agencies I just mentioned.

Let me suggest to them, we need to focus on that issue because the  other five issues that we face, the five appropriations bills that have  yet to have been signed by the President of the United States and will  fund about 76 percent of the government, are things that we have agreed  upon.

After they pass, after they are signed by the President, there will  be a lot of time to debate the operations of Homeland Security and, in  my view, the laws that they are breaking, the Constitution that they  are not respecting, and the human rights that they are undermining.  There will be time for that debate. There will be time for that action.  Today, is a time to fund the majority of government for the American  people.

Minneapolis has shocked the conscience of America. We ought to be  shocked, angry, and disgusted by the taking of life of Renee Good and  Alex Pretti. We the people want to end this violent occupation of our  cities. We the people deserve answers. The Congress needs to rein in  the Department of Homeland Security.

That is why I and so many of my colleagues voted against funding the  Department of Homeland Security--not because we don't need Homeland  Security; we do--but we need it done within the context of the  Constitution and the laws of this country and of our States.

This Congress needs to ensure the Federal Government can continue to  provide vital services to the American people.

Mr. HOYER. Voting for this bill does that, and voting for this bill  also gives us the opportunity to constrain 6 days, essentially, of  funding with the Department of Homeland Security. Unfortunately, out of  the regular order, they are funded for the balance of the year in many  respects.

This compromise bill serves the interest of funding our government  for the American people and giving us the opportunity to constrain and  to ensure that there are meaningful, substantive, substantial reforms  and restraints placed upon the operations of the Department of Homeland  Security as it must be.

It is essential that we unmask Trump's Federal immigration agents,  force them to abide by the local law enforcement standards for use of  force and use warrants.

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, throughout this year's appropriations  process, we have seen Donald Trump and Russell Vought trample on this  Congress' power of the purse. Some will admit that. Some will say it  silently.

If there were ever a time for this Congress to exercise that power,  it is now. Let us pass five bills on which we have agreement and  substantially restrain and stop the funding of DHS a week from this  Friday. Then, let us come to an agreement on honoring the Constitution,  the laws of this country, and the conduct of law enforcement.

Mr. Speaker, let's pass this bill and then focus on that which the  country wants us to focus on, like a laser, for them, for the people.