Devastating Harm Caused By Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695605/devastating-harm-caused-by-trump-administration


Mr. FOSTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Kaptur and  Congresswoman Budzinski for giving us a chance to set the record  straight on President Trump's abject failure to restore the strength of  U.S. manufacturing, perhaps his number one campaign promise.

I am best known around here as being the Ph.D. physicist in Congress.  Before that, I was a manufacturer.

When I was 19 years old, my little brother and I started a company in  our basement with $500 from my parents. That company now manufactures  more than half of the theater lighting equipment in the United States.  Our company does hardware, software, sheet metal, wiring harnesses, and  customer support. We have kept all of those manufacturing jobs in the  United  States, and it is something I am very proud of.

I think it is significant also that now, 50 years after we started  that company, due to an employee stock ownership plan, it is 100  percent owned by the employees who built the company.

I know how to create jobs, and I know that with what President Trump  and his administration are doing, they are not going to deliver. I am,  unfortunately, not surprised.

Why is this? I think it is best summarized, actually, by paraphrasing  the pithy tweet of Elon Musk when he said, You guys, meaning you guys  on Trump's tariff team, haven't built squat, though he was a little  more rude in his choice of words.

The point I want to make is that this is not new. The ignorant  tariffs that he is applying come from the fact that they simply don't  get it with manufacturing because none of them--think about it. There  is no one on the Trump tariff team who has ever built anything in their  career. They are a bunch of finance people. They are a bunch of real  estate dealers.

If you are a real estate dealer, it is a very different kind of job  than a manufacturer. If you are a real estate wheeler-dealer, what you  want to do is rook your counterparty. You succeed as a real estate  wheeler-dealer if your counterparty goes away angry. I tell you what,  if you are a manufacturer, the last thing you want is an unhappy  customer.

Democrats understand that the real job creators in this economy are  customers, and we understand that customers come from the middle class.

For time immemorial, the Republican Party has been about sucking  money out of the middle class to provide giant tax cuts for the very  wealthy. We can see how that has ended time and again for manufacturing  employment in the United States.

Here is the history: Here we have, since before I was born, the  history of U.S. manufacturing employment, depending on which party held  the Presidency. You can see the huge job increase when FDR--that was  when we were coming out of the Depression, which is understandable. It  continued through President Truman. Then, it went down when the  Republican Dwight Eisenhower took over. Then, it went up strongly under  President Kennedy, down under President Nixon, up in Carter's  administration, down in Reagan's administration, and down again in Bush  the elder's administration. It went up during the Clinton  administration and down strongly during George Bush's administration.  That was, frankly, because of the historic mistake that was made by  both parties to let China into the World Trade Organization without  having an understanding that they should obey the requirements of good  membership in the WTO and not manipulate their currencies. That is not  what President Bush was about.

Then, it went up, of course, during President Obama, down during the  first Trump Presidency, and up during the Biden Presidency. Now, of  course, it is trending downward again in the Trump Presidency, so this  is not a surprise. This is something that is really, I think, easy to  understand because of the basic philosophy of the Republican Party.

This is just the data in a bar graph, just the same thing.

In Presidency after Presidency, when the middle class is strong,  demand is strong, and manufacturing is strong. Manufacturing employment  follows.

This is not rocket science. This is simple, basic economics. A strong  middle class yields strong manufacturing growth and strong  manufacturing employment. It is a lesson that we have had to learn  again and again in the history of our country, and I hope we remember  that history and don't forget it in the future.