Recognizing Peter Robinson's Retirement


Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the remarkable career  of Peter Robinson, the Vice President for Government and Community  Relations at the University of Rochester, who retired at the end of  March after more than 35 years of exceptional service.

Throughout his tenure, Peter played a vital role in advancing the  University's mission, leading its federal, state, and community  relations efforts with great skill and dedication. Among his many  achievements, he was instrumental in the University's affiliation with  NextCorps, strengthening support for the Laboratory for Laser  Energetics, and building lasting partnerships with state and local  leaders.

Peter's advocacy helped secure hundreds of millions of dollars in  funding for the University and Medical Center including $50 million for  the Saunders Research Building and $50 million for the Emergency and  Inpatient Tower. He has also secured major funding for the Eastman  School of Music expansion, Wegmans Hall, the Goergen Institute for Data  Science and Artificial Intelligence, and the Kornberg and Del Monte  Biomedical Research Buildings.

Beyond his professional contributions, Peter served for 30 years in  the New York Army National Guard, retiring with the rank of colonel.  His deep commitment to veterans' issues continued through his work with  the University's Veterans Alliance, demonstrating his enduring  dedication to service.

I have known Peter since the start of my career and have always  admired his insightful and strategic approach to complex legislative  matters. His numerous contributions to the University and our community  are immeasurable. He has built an incredible legacy that will  strengthen and inspire future generations.

As he embarks on the next chapter, I extend my deepest gratitude for  his decades of service and unwavering leadership. On behalf of the  University of Rochester community and all those who have benefited from  his work, I wish Peter Robinson all the best in his retirement.