Repeal Requirement for Congressional Research Service to Prepare Annotated Constitution and Supplements in Hardbound Version


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1234. This bill, as has  been indicated, modernizes Congress and improves efficiency by  eliminating the requirement that the Congressional Research Service  print hardbound versions of its Annotated Constitution.

This measure, which I am proud to co-lead, passed by voice vote last  Congress, and I am hopeful it will again today. I will take a moment to  thank my dear friend, the gentlewoman from Oklahoma (Mrs. Bice), who  chairs the Committee of House Administration's Subcommittee on  Modernization and Innovation. I thank her for all of her hard work. It  is always a delight to work with her.

I am sorry, Mr. Speaker, I didn't bring a physical copy of the  Annotated Constitution. I am not sure I could lift it, and I think Mrs.  Bice is stronger than I am.

This mandate to print the Annotated Constitution does come with  significant and unnecessary personnel cost for the Congressional  Research Service. As Mrs. Bice indicated, eliminating it would save us  an estimated $4 million over the next 4 years.

At the Committee on House Administration where I have the privilege  of serving as the ranking member, we spent a significant amount of time  talking about the Supreme Court's decision in Loper Bright v. Raimondo.

That case ended four decades of precedent known as the Chevron  deference, which required courts to defer to reasonable agency  interpretations of ambiguous statutes.

While we may not all agree on the merits of this decision, there is  bipartisan consensus that unless we want the courts deciding every  single open policy question, then we, Congress, have to draft laws that  are far more technical in specificity than we do now. That cannot be  done without major assistance from subject matter experts such as those  at the Congressional Research Service.

To that end, it is my hope that the millions we save from passing  this bill will be promptly reinvested in CRS to enhance its capacity,  an absolutely essential step as Congress continues to work to maintain  our Article I authorities and prerogatives.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this practical, forward- thinking legislation. Again, I thank my colleague, Mrs. Bice, for her  leadership, her partnership, and her friendship.

Mr. Speaker, I consider this a model of bipartisanship. What a great  way to start off the week.

I again say, in the interests of modernization, saving important  taxpayer dollars, and making sure that we are more responsive to the  American people, I urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this  legislation. I thank Mrs. Bice again for her bipartisanship, and I  yield back the balance of my time.