Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Gross Proceeds Reporting By Brokers That Regularly Provide Services Effectuating Digital Asset Sales''--


Mr. KELLY. Mr. President, we made a sacred promise to our veterans  that after their service, they would get the care and support that they  earned. That promise did not come with an expiration date. And as a  combat veteran myself, I take this responsibility personally on behalf  of Arizona's more than 500,000 veterans and veterans across the  country. But with these mass firings of staff at the VA, President  Trump and Elon Musk are breaking that promise.

In the last month, thousands of VA employees, people who care for our  Nation's veterans, were fired with no warning, no phone call, no  meeting--just an email telling them that they no longer had a job, that  they were no longer wanted. These aren't just nameless, faceless  bureaucrats; these are Americans who signed up to serve our country by  taking care of veterans. They deserve to be treated with respect. These  are the people on the frontlines of veterans' care and services, and  they were fired without even a thought.

We can all agree that the VA can do a better job, but aimlessly  firing thousands of people will do nothing to help speed up veterans'  healthcare--nothing. It will just make accessing care more difficult.

Secretary Collins and the VA claim that these were ``non-mission  critical'' jobs. Well, that is simply not true. In  Arizona, we have seen VA workers and the families who rely on the VA  impacted in a real way--like Brandy and David, who shared their story  with Arizona's Family News and are both veterans themselves who became  loan specialists to help fellow veterans navigate financial hardships  and avoid homelessness. Before they were fired, each of them was  handling 1,500 cases. Each of those cases represents one veteran who  needs help. How much longer will it take veterans in need to get  answers?

Another Arizona family reached out to my office, afraid to speak out  publicly because of fear of retaliation. The husband is a doctor at the  Tucson VA. He treats patients with lung disease. But last week he got  an email--not a meeting, no conversation--just an email telling him to  resign. Is that who Secretary Collins calls ``non-mission critical''?  His wife now fears that her job could be next. They have two young  kids, and now they are being forced to rethink everything because this  administration--this administration--kicked them to the curb.

Donald Trump claims to care about veterans but then turns around and  fires the very people whose job it is to ensure that veterans get the  care that they need, the care that they earned from serving our Nation,  for keeping us safe. These are real people. These terminations, they  are not just numbers on a spreadsheet; they are real people who execute  a mission serving veterans. And these layoffs--these layoffs are going  to mean longer wait times for appointments, fewer options for mental  health care, fewer options for pain management, more delays in  processing benefits.

Is this really where Elon Musk and Donald Trump want to save a buck?  Off the backs of veterans who have risked everything for us?

This is not how the United States should treat our veterans. That is  why I stand here today as a veteran myself, with Senator Blumenthal and  our colleagues, to support this resolution.

Let's get the folks back to work serving our veterans. The work they  do is mission critical. Veterans in Arizona and across the country are  counting on them, and they are counting on us.