-9999


Mr. KING.  1337 and the Senate proceed to its  immediate consideration; that the bill be considered read a third time  and passed; and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and  laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate.

Mr. KING. Madam President, I want to express some thoughts on this  motion that was just objected to.

We are in an ongoing, serious, and debilitating conflict in the world  of cyber.

It is one of the most serious threats this country faces. In fact,  right at this moment, it is probably the most serious threat this  country faces from nation-states, from hacktivists, from ransomware,  from crooks around the world. It is a serious daily challenge.

We are being attacked--institutions in this country, including the  U.S. Government, including the Department of Defense, including the  CIA, but also private sector businesses are being attacked 5 billion  times a day.

I visited a small bank in Maine that is being attacked in the  hundreds of thousands of times in a week, a small local bank. I have  talked to utility executives that are being attacked--one major  utility--3 million times a day, that the adversaries are trying to get  into our systems to compromise them, which would be devastating in a  time of conflict.

Imagine for a moment a shot isn't fired, but the financial system  collapses; water systems are poisoned; the electrical system is down;  the gas pipeline system is compromised; healthcare, hospitals are down.  That is a devastating attack. By not moving this bill, we are  unilaterally disarming in the midst of this crisis.

What this bill does is very simple. It simply renews an authority  that was passed in 2015 to create a mechanism where the private sector  and the Federal Government can exchange information about cyber  attacks.

The private sector is protected from liability for exchanging, for  sharing the information. Then the government can collect that  information, warn other sectors of potential attacks that are indicated  in these kinds of reports, can help the victims respond, and also can  help us to form a more coherent national strategy to deal with these  attacks.

I don't understand why the gentleman from Kentucky is objecting to-- and this isn't a spending bill. This has nothing to do with the  continuing resolution. This is simply an authority that has been in  place, as I say, for 10 years. It expired at the end of the fiscal  year, and we want to extend that in order to maintain this kind of  interaction, this kind of exchange of information that is critical to  our ability to  realistically confront this really--I can't overemphasize how serious  this crisis is.

We just learned, for example, that the Chinese were in our  telecommunication system. We know that the Russians have made  consistent efforts to penetrate our critical infrastructure, along with  the Chinese. This is not an abstract threat. This is before us right  now. It is happening right now. And if we don't pass this extension, as  I said, we are unilaterally disarming.

I understand the chairman of the committee has some other items that  he would like to consider. He is the chairman of the committee. I urge  him to bring those issues before the committee, bring a bill to the  floor, and they can be considered. But don't, in the meantime, hobble  our ability to protect our citizens and entities, people and companies  and businesses and our own government, from these ongoing attacks.

At this very moment, this government is under attack by cyber  criminals, by state actors. They are not doing it for fun. They are  doing it maliciously to undermine our country and also to steal from  us.

The amount stolen through ransomware attacks, which can occur, by the  way, at a local hospital or a town--the amount of money is in the  billions every year.

So I hope that as we keep coming to the floor to bring this matter  up, we can have the withdrawal of the objection by the chairman of the  committee because--the final thing I will say is what I said before:  This is no time to be lowering our defenses, to be compromising our  ability to defend ourselves from an attack that we know is happening  and that we know is going to continue to happen.

We know that this is going to continue. This attack is going to  continue on our country, on our institutions, on our businesses, on our  citizens, and we have to be on guard. We cannot--we cannot--allow this  authority to lapse and compromise our ability to defend ourselves and  the people of the United States.