Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694857/energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Chairman, I thank our chairman for his great work on  this bill. I am happy to say that this bill supports the much-needed  transition away from the policies of the previous administration in  regard to energy and water and puts us on the right path, which is much  needed, to support the President's agenda.

It does this in a few ways. It cuts waste, fraud, and abuse. It  preserves our nuclear stockpiles so America can continue the  President's mandate of peace through strength, and it works to restore  our energy dominance and security that President Trump accomplished in  his first administration. Yet, the Biden administration worked to  undermine us at every step along the way.

Mr. Chair, $5.1 billion in green new energy scam funds are being  transferred to various nuclear programs, including the Advanced Reactor  Demonstration Program, which helps companies get closer to building  nuclear facilities. This is extremely important.

We saw how the EV mandates and the policies of the previous  administration spent billions and billions building only a handful of  charging stations, again undermining America's energy dominance.

In the base of this bill, there is $50 million for the ARDP  demonstration programs and $77 million for risk-reduction projects. We  secured close to $5 billion in Army Corps projects that improve  navigation and operating waterways for vessels which strengthens our  economy, helps us to export, and helps us to lead on the world stage.

Projects like the Matagorda and Corpus Christi Ship Channel projects  provide waterways for imports and exports, resources like LNG, crude  oil, fertilizers, chemicals, and petrochemicals. The Corpus Christi  Ship Channel alone exports the highest amount of crude oil in the  country and is one of the top exporters of LNG to our allies and  friends around the world, being the number one energy export port in  the world.

Water is going to be a major issue as we continue to go forward and  develop. There is language in here that points to desalination projects  to help receive research and development funds so we can continue to  lead, grow, and develop, and it contains language for the Bureau of  Reclamation to develop seawater desalination facilities as we continue  to move forward.

Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for his leadership on this and for  the great work in supporting the President's agenda.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.