Protect America's Workforce Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697985/protect-americas-workforce-act


Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H.R.  2550.

The proposed legislation is designed to nullify President Trump's  lawful executive order to exclude agencies with national security  missions from collective bargaining agreements.

Article II of the Constitution is crystal clear: The executive power  is invested in the President of the United States. Let me repeat: All  authority in the executive branch flows from the people to the duly  elected executive. Anyone operating outside of the pleasure of the  President in the executive branch is simply part of an unconstitutional  fourth branch of government. The President holds the sole authority.

Yet for decades, Federal collective bargaining agreements have been  allowed, and some are even designed to restrict the President's ability  to lead the government we elected him to run.

That is why President Trump, acting fully within the authority  granted by the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, amended Jimmy Carter's  1979 executive order, to exempt additional agencies from burdensome  collective bargaining agreements--agencies such as the Departments of  Defense, State, Justice, Homeland Security, the Nuclear Regulatory  Commission, as well as many others.

The left's disdain for the Constitution cannot be more clear. We saw  this during Trump administration 1.0 with the resistance movement.  During the Biden administration we saw the auto pen controversy where  they even went around the executive. The Biden administration spent the  final months, even after being voted out of office, frantically signing  union contracts which were explicitly designed to sabotage the incoming  administration and prevent President Trump, elected by the people, from  carrying out the mandate he was given.

These same government unions are not neutral public servants. In the  2023 to 2024 election cycle, the four largest Federal employee unions  spent nearly $1 billion on politics, with 98.8 percent of their Federal  contributions going to the Democratic Party.

Unions like the American Federation of Government Employees, the  National Treasury Employees Union, AFSCME, SEIU, and others affected by  this executive order have made no secret of their intent to resist the  agenda the American people voted for.

As Congress, we need to ensure that the Constitution is upheld. We  need more legislation like the Preserving Presidential Management  Authority Act, which simply reaffirms Article II and ensures that no  future administration can permanently handcuff its successor.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to defend Article II, reject this  H.R. 2550, and stand with the American people who sent us here to drain  the swamp, not to protect it.