Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of S. 1071,  the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026. I thank my  friend, colleague, and ranking member,  Don Norcross, for all of his  great work on this effort.

This year, the NDAA placed an extraordinary emphasis on overhauling  the acquisition process, shifting focus from compliance to quickly  fielding new capabilities at speed and scale.

It slashes red tape by creating a new requirement process to enable  the Pentagon to actively seek existing technology solutions from  industry, rather than prescribing overly exquisite, gold-plated systems  with burdensome requirements.

This year's bill also fully funds the President's request for  counter-drone systems, improves force protection from drones at home  and abroad, and codifies the Joint Interagency Task Force 401, which is  responsible for coordinating all Department efforts to counter drones  now and in the future.

Among the NDAA's most important achievements this year is the  authorization of $38 billion for development, procurement, and  modification of aircraft. This includes full funding for the Air  Force's F-47 and the Navy's F/A-XX sixth-generation aircraft programs,  as well as 47 additional F-35 aircraft. These investments will  guarantee America's air superiority around the globe.

The legislation also supports shipbuilding. It supports the  construction of a third Columbia-class ballistic missile submarine and  an additional Virginia-class submarine.

Additionally, the bill contains block buy authorization that allows  the Navy to purchase two Ford-class aircraft carriers under the same  contract.

This bill is the product of a long, thoughtful, and deliberative  process aimed at rapidly arming our American warfighters with the most  innovative and productive technology available. It delivers on this in  an astounding fashion.

I thank Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Smith for their thoughtful  leadership on this essential piece of legislation.

I thank my subcommittee staff: Michael Kirlin, Heath Bope, Caroline  Kehrli, Brooke Alred, and Andrew Smith.

In my office, I thank my lead Military Legislative Assistant, Andrew  Maloney; in the Department of War, United States Marine Corps Captain  Alex Feldman.

Mr. Speaker, with that, I urge my colleagues to support this year's  NDAA.