Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for the  time.

I want to open by complimenting my friend, Majority Leader   Steve  Scalise, on the very dapper Ole Miss tie that he is wearing today,  honoring the fact that my Ole Miss Rebels beat his LSU Tigers earlier  this year.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this year's NDAA. I  thank Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Smith for their leadership on  the critical acquisition reforms in this bill. I also thank my good  friend, Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces Ranking Member    Joe Courtney, for his dedication to supporting our naval and projection  forces.

America's Navy and Air Force are incredible assets for our country,  protecting critical interests and projecting our presence around the  world. In the face of increasingly audacious threats to order from  adversaries scattered across the globe, submitting the message that  America is committed to peace through strength is more important than  ever. This year's bill supports and strengthens our ability to continue  this noble and vital mission.

This NDAA will add to our fleet of Virginia- and Columbia-class  submarines. We are also investing in future procurement of ships and  submarines and granting authorities to support our industrial base and  improve the acquisitions process for the future.

This year's NDAA also shapes the investment in the transformative  power of unmanned vehicles. These are just some of the critical  revisions in the NDAA, not just for the Navy of today, but the Navy for  tomorrow.

This bill also supports our airborne force projection, raising the  minimum number of aerial refueling aircraft, maintaining a strong  inventory of C-130 aircraft for intra-theater airlift, and supporting  cutting-edge aerial drone programs. As with our ships and submarines,  we are paving a smoother path toward building the projection forces of  the future.

I thank my staff and the staff of the committee. I thank the  gentleman for recognizing me, and I thank my fellow, Commander Bobby  Hsu, who did an outstanding job working on this NDAA.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill.