Recognizing 100 Years of the Gamma Nu Chapter of Kappa Kappa Gamma


Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise today to honor a century of  leadership, service and sisterhood embodied by the bright young women  and alumni of the University of Arkansas's Kappa Kappa Gamma chapter,  Gamma Nu. This year marks Gamma Nu's 100th anniversary of proudly  encouraging and sustaining a culture of excellence and service that has  enriched the campus and greater Fayetteville community.

Founded in 1925 by 15 students, Gamma Nu has grown into the largest  chapter of Kappa Kappa Gamma nationwide, supporting 650 active members  and more than 4,000 alumnae. For a century, its members have embodied  the values of scholarship, philanthropy, and character development-- setting a powerful example of what it means to lead with integrity and  purpose.

Collegiate organizations like Gamma Nu play a vital role in shaping  the next generation of leaders, offering young women opportunities to  build confidence, develop skills, and form lifelong bonds rooted in  shared values and experiences. I have seen this impact firsthand as a  proud dad of three Gamma Nu alumnae. It is evident that their time in  the chapter helped prepare them to pursue service and leadership, and I  know that is the case for countless of their peers.

From organizing defense stamp drives during World War II to  supporting literacy and mental health initiatives today, the women of  Gamma Nu have consistently demonstrated a deep commitment to uplifting  and giving back to the community. Their efforts have supported causes  ranging from Arkansas Children's Hospital to the National Eating  Disorders Association, and their volunteer work continues to make a  meaningful difference in the lives of others.

Gamma Nu women have long been leaders on campus--serving in student  government, excelling in academics and athletics, and representing the  university with distinction. Their chapter house, a landmark on West  Maple Street, stands as a symbol of tradition and transformation,  having evolved to meet the needs of a growing and dynamic membership.

The chapter's centennial celebration will bring together hundreds of  alumnae and current members to reflect on their shared legacy and look  ahead to the future. I am pleased to join them in the celebration of a  new Panhellenic scholarship--the Kappa Kappa Gamma Centennial  Leadership Award--designed to honor an outstanding Panhellenic leader  outside of the Gamma Nu chapter, and the unveiling of a commemorative  fountain to encourage thoughtful gathering and reflection.

As Gamma Nu embarks on its second century, I commend its members,  past and present, for their contributions to the University of  Arkansas, the region and beyond. May their legacy continue to inspire  generations of women to lead with courage, serve with compassion, and  uphold the values that have defined a remarkable first 100 years.