CNN "Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees" - Transcript: Interview with Senator Tammy Baldwin


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

COOPER: We just heard from Alan Dershowitz who is speaking before the Senate on the President's behalf on the constitution. One element Democrats may be interested in presenting, it's our breaking news this evening, more documents suggesting that Marie Yovanovitch may have been under surveillance before she was recalled as U.S. ambassador to Ukraine.

As we reported earlier, text released by House Democrats showing American associate of Lev Parnas, who got a name Robert Hyde, texting a Belgian number, that person or person sent Hyde a photo of former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, Yovanovitch, and says they'll give Hyde her address next week. Hyde responds "awesome."

[20:45:05]

Joining me now is Democratic Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin who's a juror in the impeachment trial. Senator Baldwin, thanks for being with us. I'm wondering what your reaction is to this new material --

SEN. TAMMY BALDWIN (D-WI): My pleasure. COOPER: -- that House Democrats released tonight from Lev Parnas, more communication about alleged surveillance to former U.S. Ambassador Yovanovitch.

BALDWIN: Well, obviously there's been a lot of discussion since the House Intelligence Committee started releasing some of the documents that he had shared with the committee. And I think it should be considered among the pieces of evidence that I hope we'll get a chance to review.

You know, we're anxious to have a full, fair and honest trial. And as you know, there's still an ongoing dispute about whether there will be any witnesses or any opportunities to view documentary evidence. And, frankly, I don't know how it can be a full, fair and honest trial unless we get those opportunities.

And this has sort of heightened -- the interviews that Lev Parnas has done is sort of heightened the interest in getting that sort of information before the Senate. But it also points back to our strong need to hear from the four witnesses that we have been pushing for now for weeks, former National Security Adviser John Bolton, Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney, and Robert Blair and Michael Duffy, who are both high-ranking White House officials with firsthand, direct knowledge of all the President's conduct that's being alleged in these articles of impeachment.

COOPER: The -- one of the things that Professor Dershowitz was saying was if, you know, Democrats get the witnesses they want to have that Republicans should be able to have witnesses as well. And there's been indications from some Republicans that they would like to have, you know, Hunter Biden or Vice President Biden. Does that make sense to you?

BALDWIN: Well, the articles are very specific, abuse of power, referring of course to the President soliciting foreign assistance to -- for his personal benefit and political benefit in the upcoming election, and obstruction of Congress. And I know you've discussed those articles.

I have no idea what relevant and firsthand information somebody like Hunter Biden could provide, that would provide any clarity on the two articles of impeachment. And so, you know, I don't see a reason why they would want to bring a witness like that forward given what we're listening to and what we want to get to the bottom of.

But, you know, right now we don't have any witnesses, and I am going to be pressing as hard as I can and hopefully joined by several Republicans so that we can have a real trial, a full trial and an honest trial.

COOPER: Do you think that there are enough Republicans to want that? I mean, I've heard estimates of anywhere from three to four would be needed.

BALDWIN: You know, there's a new tally every day. It strikes me that just a week ago Mitch McConnell was saying that he had the votes of the Republican caucus to not allow witnesses, but I think that there will probably be more than one debate about witnesses when we convene on Tuesday.

And I think when we do, it will be a solemn and serious as the day we had yesterday when we were sworn in as essentially senators sitting as jurors. I think we'll have a debate on the conduct of the trial and it may not be the last word.

I do know that our leader, Chuck Schumer, will have the opportunity to amend any motion or resolution that Mitch McConnell brings forward about the conduct of the trial. I expect us to debate and I certainly hope enough of my Republican colleagues want to see from -- want to hear from John Bolton, want to hear from Mick Mulvaney and Robert Blair and all of these witnesses, Michael Duffy, who have firsthand, direct knowledge of the President's conduct that's being alleged.

And frankly, you know, I assume that the President may want to bring witnesses. This is a time where he can present his case and he chose really not to during the House impeachment inquiry and, you know, that's the President's choice. But I think that it would, you know, behoove him now that he has his full legal team announced to be thinking about the case that he's going to present.

COOPER: Senator Tammy Baldwin, I appreciate your time tonight. Thank you.

BALDWIN: I appreciate yours. Thanks.

COOPER: Senator, thanks. Coming up, allegations the President called the nation's top military commanders "bunch of dopes and babies." Details ahead.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT