Establishing the Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2025 and Setting Forth the Appropriate Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Years 2026 Through 2034


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689511/establishing-the-congressional-budget-for-the-united-states-government-for-fiscal-year-2025-and-setting-forth-the-appropriate-budgetary-levels-for-fiscal-years-2026-through-2034


Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, I rise today on behalf of the 1.2  million Wisconsinites who rely on Medicaid--or as we call it in  Wisconsin, BadgerCare--for their health insurance. And I rise today in  their defense because their healthcare is under attack.

I really want to focus right now kind of taking off where Senator  Durbin left off talking about our children, our babies. One in three  children in Wisconsin rely on Medicare for their life insurance. That  is one in three children in Wisconsin's urban, suburban, and rural  counties who need Medicaid just to see a doctor to get regular checkups  or to get vaccines and to stay healthy.

I have traveled across Wisconsin, meeting with constituents who are  terrified about what these cuts will mean for their families, their  finances, and their health. I would like to share a few of those  stories with you this evening.

I think about people like Megan from Wisconsin, a single mother of  two young children who relies on Medicaid so that her kids can get  regular check-ups to see the dentist. She reached out to me to share  that without Medicaid, her entire paycheck would go to just keeping her  children healthy--with nothing left over to pay for rent or keep food  on the table.

I heard from Shelley in Lake Holcombe, WI, who reached out to me  about her 17-year-old daughter Chloe. Chloe was diagnosed with leukemia  last October. Chloe receives chemotherapy 5 days a week, and her  parents drive her almost an hour each way to Eau Claire, WI, so that  she can get the treatments that she needs. Without Medicaid, the cost  of Chloe's treatment would force Shelley and parents like her to make  an impossible choice between financial ruin or not getting the care  that they need for their children.

I have also heard from dozens of Wisconsin families whose children  live with disabilities. They are terrified of what financial cuts will  mean for their kids' future and their family's finances.

Jennifer in Wauwatosa wrote to my office about her son Will. Will is  a 15-year-old sophomore at Wauwatosa West whom she described as vibrant  and loving. Will also has Down syndrome which, among other medical  care, has meant that he has needed a total of 11 ear tube surgeries  just so that he can hear. Jennifer wrote me that the math on those  costs to their family is pretty simple. Eleven surgeries which cost  $10,000 each, without insurance, would cost her family $110,000. She  said without Medicaid, she and her husband would struggle to give their  children the lives they deserve, including paying for their other son's  college tuition.

She wrote:

If Medicaid is cut, we will struggle financially. We will       not be able to get Will the support he needs to be       independent, get a job, and go to college. It could even mean       one of us having to leave our full-time employment which       could hurt even more. Please don't cut Medicaid.

I also heard from Brooke in Thorp, WI. She shared that because of  Medicaid and the speech therapy for her 4-year-old son that he  receives, she has, for the first time this year, heard his voice utter  more than one syllable.

Imagine that.

She wrote:

It marks the first time I have been called Mom by him, and       I have heard ``I love you'' come from him three times--all       occurring in the last 12 months. He receives speech therapy       five days a week to learn how to express himself, [to]       process emotions, and [to] regulate. This has changed his       life. And these therapies are paid for by Medicaid. Don't       allow people like me to only hear ``love you'' a handful of       times simply because of a budget cut.

We can talk about the number of children who will be impacted by cuts  to Medicaid, a total of over 30 million nationwide. While that number  is staggering, it is important to remember that every single child who  relies on Medicaid has a story like Chloe's or Will's. And they have  parents like Megan and Brooke who just want what is best for their  children and are terrified about their future if Medicaid is taken  away.

If my colleagues on the Republican side want to go through with  cuts--the ones laid out in the House's budget plan--it is these  families Republicans must answer to.

Donald Trump and congressional Republicans can explain why they are  planning to rip away healthcare for children so that the top 1 percent  can get richer.

I, for one, would like them to answer for the chaos, for the fear,  for the heartache that they are causing families in my State.