H. Con. Res. 14


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689545/h-con-res-14


Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, I rise this evening once again to  highlight the stories of Wisconsinites who would be impacted by cuts to  Medicaid that my Republican colleagues are proposing.

Earlier this evening, I talked about children, babies, our most  vulnerable. Now I would like to talk about older adults.

I rise to share the story of Renee. Renee is a 60-year-old woman. She  lives in Milwaukee, WI. In October 2023, Renee was diagnosed with stage  IV breast cancer. It had metastasized to her brain, her lungs, and her  liver.

She depended upon Medicaid for that diagnosis through a program that  Congress created, and she also depends on Medicaid--or BadgerCare, as  we call it in the State of Wisconsin--for her treatment.

Without Medicaid, she said, ``[I] would be forced to ration or forgo  cancer treatment--hastening my death--or send me and my husband into  bankruptcy trying to keep me alive.''

In March, last month, I brought Renee to President Trump's State of  the Union Address to show this President who his massive cuts to  Medicaid will hurt.

Medicaid provides health coverage to 7.2 million seniors nationwide.  That is millions of Americans just like Renee who rely on Medicaid for  the lifesaving treatment they need.

I also heard from Linda. Linda lives in Viroqua, WI, where her  husband and she run a dairy farm that they bought nearly 22 years ago.  Linda served her community for 30 years as a registered nurse, working  primarily with new moms and babies, before she was forced to retire due  to chronic health issues. Since then, she and her husband have relied  on Medicaid and he on Medicare for their healthcare because they cannot  afford other types of insurance.

Like so many dairy farms in the State of Wisconsin, Linda and her  husband work on very tight margins, made even tighter by Trump's first- term tariffs, which, according to Linda, ``put us into poverty.'' This  was in Trump's first term. Now they are staring down another Trump  trade war and wondering how it is going to impact their dairy  operation.

She wrote:

I am not proud that I have to use Medicaid and Medicare for       insurance, but at 63 years of age, it appears that I will not       be able to work at a job that provides health coverage or a       living wage. If the cuts in Medicaid become a reality, not       only will we be homeless . . . but we will not be able to       access the healthcare and drug coverage we need to have       quality of life. We never thought we would need government       healthcare, but here we are, and the outlook has darkened       considerably for many dairy farmers since January.

This fight to protect Medicaid for seniors is personal to me and  dozens of Wisconsinites. My own mother relied on Medicaid at the end of  her life to afford nursing home care, as do the majority of  Wisconsinites in skilled nursing homes. Six in ten residents in our  State's nursing homes use Medicaid, or over 10,000 seniors who might  not be able to otherwise afford to have a safe roof over their heads.

Medicaid also supports more than 43,000 elderly or disabled adults  who receive long-term care at home in our community. That includes  people like Tammy in Monona, WI, whose father Bud battled dementia at  the end of his life. Medicaid allowed Tammy's dad to stay in his home  for the last 5 years of his life with the support of at-home  caregivers.

She wrote to me:

People should be able to choose where and how they spend       their last days in life. Medicaid allowed my dad to stay in       his own home, with familiar surroundings that helped ground       him when his dementia was the most challenging for him.       Please continue funding Medicaid to be able to help other       frail elders stay in their own homes.

There are so many pleas that I hear from my constituents in every  corner of our State, and it is these constituents that I hope President  Trump and congressional Republicans are listening to when they think  about ripping away Medicaid to pay for their tax cuts for big  corporations and billionaires.

Seniors like Renee and Linda know that Medicaid is a lifeline for  Americans who otherwise would have nowhere to turn. It is  Wisconsinites--who will face bankruptcy just to stay well--who will pay  for Donald Trump's giveaway to the top 1 percent.

I cannot believe that my Republican colleagues are even considering a  plan that is so backward and so cruel for hard-working Wisconsinites  and seniors. This is wrong, and we must continue to fight back and say  loudly and clearly: Hands off Medicaid.

Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I rise today for the third time this  evening  on behalf of Wisconsinites in rural communities whose access to  healthcare will be devastated by cuts to Medicaid.

Earlier this evening, I talked about the impact that cuts to Medicaid  would have on children and babies and then about the impact that cuts  to Medicaid would have on seniors and older adults.

But in my home State of Wisconsin, about a quarter of the population  lives in rural areas, or roughly 1.4 million people do. And across the  United States, about 60 million people live in rural areas.

When I travel around Wisconsin, I hear about several challenges that  our rural communities face, from the lack of high-speed broadband to  ensuring businesses have enough workers to thrive. But the No. 1  challenge that I hear about, time and again, is about rural access to  healthcare.

Wisconsinites in rural communities face long drives and wait times to  see a doctor. And for specialized healthcare, many of my constituents  are looking at hours in the car just to get the care that they need and  that they deserve.

That is why I have made it my mission to lower healthcare costs and  expand care across the State, but especially for critical-access  hospitals in our rural communities.

I am proud of our work because I know what a lifeline our rural  hospitals are for Wisconsinites, from emergency care to having a place  to get regular checkups. But I know we have work to do.

In the past 10 years, 120 rural hospitals have either closed or  ceased offering inpatient services across this country. That is 120  communities and hundreds of thousands of people whose healthcare  options have diminished or vanish overnight.

Most recently, in the State of Wisconsin, the closure of two HSHS  hospitals and more than a dozen--well, over a dozen--clinics in Western  Wisconsin left 1,400 workers out of a job and thousands of  Wisconsinites with less access to emergency care, inpatient beds,  mental health care, treatment for opioid addiction, and labor and  delivery services.

Nearly half of all rural hospitals nationwide operate at a deficit,  especially in States like Wisconsin that have not taken up the  Affordable Care Act Medicaid expansion option for adults.

In a struggle to keep their doors open, many rural hospitals opt to  close less lucrative units, such as maternity wards. That means women  driving further for prenatal checkups or to give birth.

For the hospitals left and places that provide care, there has  largely been one saving grace: Medicaid. Medicaid--and Medicaid  expansion, in particular--is a crucial funding source for cash-strapped  rural hospitals. And it makes sense. Children and people in rural areas  are more likely to be enrolled in Medicaid than those in suburban and  urban areas.

In 10 States and Territories, more than half of Medicaid and CHIP  enrollees live in rural areas, including 1 in 3 children in Wisconsin's  rural communities.

Medicaid ensures access to a critical range of services for people  living in our rural areas, including covering nearly half of all  births.

And, like other States, our rural hospitals are already too few and  far between. Closing any more down would be devastating for people's  health and our economy. But those are the consequences we face if  Donald Trump and Republicans cut Medicaid to pay for their billionaire  tax cuts.

It is not just blue States. It is not just big cities that should be  bracing for impact if Republicans get their wish.

Massive cuts to Medicaid will undoubtedly force more rural hospitals  to shutter. That means more Americans suffering from a stroke or heart  attack not getting the lifesaving care they need until it may be too  late. That means more children in rural communities not getting to  regular checkups, and it means more expectant mothers facing roadblocks  to getting prenatal care.

Let's be clear. The health and lives of rural Americans are on the  chopping block if Republicans and Donald Trump pass their plan to gut  Medicaid--and all to make superwealthy Americans even richer. It is  wrong, and I for one plan to fight back.