Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, in 2012, the good people of Wisconsin  elected me to work for them in the Senate. Like every one of my fellow  Senators, I took an oath of office. In 2018, I was reelected and I took  that same oath. We have all taken that oath. It is not to support and  defend the President--this President or any other. Our oath is to  support and defend the Constitution of the United States. That is our  job every day that we come to work, and it certainly is our job here  today. 

  Just over 2 weeks ago, we all stood together right here and we took  another oath given to us by Chief Justice Roberts to do impartial  judgment in this impeachment trial. I have taken this responsibility  very seriously. I have listened to both sides make their case. I have  reviewed the evidence presented and I have carefully considered the  facts. 

  From the beginning, I have supported a full, fair, and honest  impeachment trial. A majority of this Senate has failed to allow it. I  supported the release of critical evidence that was concealed by the  White House. The other side of the aisle let President Trump hide it  from us, and they voted to keep it a secret from the American people. I  voted for testimony of relevant witnesses with direct, firsthand  evidence about the President's conduct. Senate Republicans blocked  witness testimony because they didn't want to be bothered with the  truth. 

  Every Senate impeachment trial in our Nation's history has included  witnesses, and this Senate trial should have been no different.  Unfortunately, it was. A majority of the Senate has taken the  unprecedented step of refusing to hear all the evidence, declining all  the facts, denying the full truth about this President's corrupt abuse  of power. President Trump has obstructed Congress, and this Senate will  let him. 

  Last month, President Trump's former National Security Advisor, John  Bolton, provided an unpublished manuscript to the White House. The  recent media reports about what Ambassador Bolton could have testified  to, had he not been blocked as a witness, go to the heart of this  impeachment trial--abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. 

  As reported, in early May 2019, there was an Oval Office meeting that  included President Trump, Mick Mulvaney, Pat Cipollone, Rudy Giuliani,  and John Bolton. According to Mr. Bolton, the President directed him to  help with his pressure campaign to solicit assistance from Ukraine to  pursue investigations that would not only benefit President Trump  politically but would act to exonerate Russia from their interference  in our 2016 elections. 

  Several weeks later, the U.S. Department of Defense certified the  release of military aid to Ukraine, concluding that they had taken  substantial actions to decrease corruption. This was part of the  security assistance we approved in Congress with bipartisan support to  help Ukraine fight Russian aggression. However, President Trump blocked  it and covered it up from Congress. 

  On July 25, 2019, as President Trump was withholding the support for  Ukraine, he had a telephone call with Ukrainian President Zelensky.  Based on a White House call summary memo that was released 2 months  later, we all know the President put his own political interest ahead  of our national security and the integrity of our elections. 

  Based on the clear and convincing evidence presented in this trial,  we know President Trump used American taxpayer dollars in security  assistance in order to get Ukraine to interfere in our elections to  help him politically. We know the President solicited assistance from  Ukraine to pursue an investigation of phony conspiracy theories about  our 2016 U.S. elections that are a part of a Russian disinformation  campaign. We know the President solicited assistance from Ukraine to  discredit the conclusion by American law enforcement, the U.S.  intelligence community, and confirmed by a bipartisan Senate report  that Russia interfered with our 2016 elections. We also know President  Trump solicited foreign interference in the upcoming election by  pressuring Ukraine to publicly announce investigations to help him  politically. 

  I ask my friends to consider the fact that the Ukrainian President  was pressured and prepared to go on an American cable television  network to announce these political investigations. 

  To those who are making the argument to acquit the President because  to convict would create further division in our country, I ask you to  acknowledge the fact that President Trump's corrupt scheme has given  Russia another opening to attack our democracy, interfere in our  elections, and further divide our already divided country. We know this  to be true, but the Senate is choosing to ignore the truth. 

  As reported just weeks after the Zelensky call, President Trump told  Ambassador Bolton in August that he wanted to continue freezing $391  million in security assistance to Ukraine until it helped with the  political investigations. Had Ambassador Bolton testified to these  facts in this trial, it would have directly contradicted what the  President told Senator Johnson in a phone call on August 31, 2019, in  which, according to Senator Johnson, the President said:  

       I would never do that. Who told you that?  

  John Bolton not only has direct evidence that implicates President  Trump in a corrupt abuse of power, but he has direct evidence that  President Trump lied to one of our colleagues in an attempt to cover it  up. It may not matter to this Senate, but I can tell you that it  matters to the people of the State of Wisconsin that this President did  not tell their Senator the truth. 

  Based on the facts presented to us, I refuse to join this President's  coverup, and I refuse to conclude that the President's abuse of power  doesn't matter, that it is OK, and that we should just get over it. 

  I recognize the courageous public servants who did what this Senate  has failed to do--to put our country first. In the House impeachment  inquiry, brave government servants came forward and told the truth.  They put their jobs on the line. Instead of inspiring us to do our  duty--to do our jobs--they  have faced character assassination from this President, the White  House, and some of my colleagues here in the Senate. It is a disgrace  to this institution that they have been treated as anything less than  the patriots they are. 

  As Army LTC Alexander Vindman said, ``This is America. Here, right  matters.'' 

  My judgment is inspired by these words, and I am guided to my  commitment to put country before party and our Constitution first. 

  My vote on the President's abuse of power and obstruction of Congress  is a vote to uphold my oath of office and to support and defend the  Constitution. My vote is a vote to uphold the rule of law and our  uniquely American principle that no one--not even the President--is  above the law. I only have 1 of 100 votes in the U.S. Senate, and I am  afraid that the majority is putting this President above the law by not  convicting him of these impeachable offenses. 

  Let's be clear. This is not an exoneration of President Trump. It is  a failure to show moral courage and hold this President accountable. 

  Now every American will have the power to make his or her own  judgment. Every American gets to decide what is in our public interest.  We the people get to choose what is in our national interest. I trust  the American people. I know they will be guided by our common good and  the truth. The people we work for know what the truth is, and they  know, in America, it matters. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT