Letter to President Donald Trump - Senator Baldwin Calls on President Trump to Provide Leadership with a National Plan for Widespread Testing


Dear President Trump,

In the past month, more than 300,000 Wisconsinites have filed for unemployment.1 Demands forfood assistance have doubled.2 Thousands of businesses have shut their doors. The number ofpositive cases of COVID-19 has grown. Wisconsin needs what has been lacking from the"Whole of America" response to this pandemic -- strong leadership from this White House thatprovides a national, centralized plan to conduct widespread testing.

In Wisconsin we have a work ethic that is second to none, and our workers want to get back onthe job just as our businesses want to safely reopen. However, we all know that the path forwardmust be guided by putting science and public health first. At present, no national plan exists fromyour White House to provide our state with the resources and supplies we need to conductwidespread testing to identify those who are infected, isolate positive cases, and safely trace allcontacts so the spread of this virus can be contained.

Conditions in Wisconsin are not unique. Governors across the country continue to issue publicpleas for the critical medical supplies needed to conduct widespread testing, including personalprotective equipment (PPE), swabs, and reagents. In fact, as our health care workers and firstresponders lack the PPE they need to safely do their jobs, it has been reported that 1,000 N95masks ordered by the Brown County Sheriff's Department and the Green Bay Police Departmentwere intercepted by FEMA and taken away from us.3 This undermines our efforts to respond tothis pandemic, and there is now an explosion of COVID-19 cases in the Green Bay area, with thenumber of cases in Brown County having increased more than fourfold in just 10 days.4

The Administration recently notified the state that from April 5-18, certain supplies had beenshipped to private vendors, not directly to the State of Wisconsin, local governments or health care providers. In addition, all numbers were provided by private sector medical distributorsback to FEMA, with no transparency or clarity about the final destination of these supplies, andwe have heard reports of continued potential diversions. Furthermore, as Wisconsin still lacksthe supplies needed from the federal government to scale up testing, this notification provides noinformation on additional testing supplies requested from FEMA.

During a national emergency, you have pitted states against one another to bid on criticalsupplies needed for testing, and your administration has diverted shipments away from governorsand into the hands of a small group of private distributors with no transparency. You haveundermined states' requests for assistance, supplanting decades of tried and true emergencymanagement structures with empty promises and outright falsehoods about the delivery ofmedical supplies to our state and others. The result has been chaos and a complete failure tomanage our Strategic National Stockpile and the medical supply chain, which has left stateswithout the federal assistance and supplies they need to conduct more testing and combat thisvirus.

In order to put people back to work and reopen businesses, we need your Administration to stepup and provide Wisconsin with the guidance, supplies, and PPE we need to conduct widespreadtesting. You can accomplish this by doing something you have failed to do -- using yourPresidential authority to unlock the full power of the Defense Production Act to support a robustnational testing strategy so that the United States can massively scale up production of the testingsupplies and PPE our health care workers need to protect themselves, take care of patients, andsave lives.

Without broad-based testing, we are left in the dark. Experts have suggested that we need at least500,000 tests per day to begin reopening parts of the economy by mid-May.5 On April 19, 2020,Vice President Pence stated that the United States was conducting approximately 150,000 testsper day.6 This is unacceptable. Liberating our country from this pandemic and moving oureconomy forward requires you to lead with a national testing plan and the supplies to implementit. This public health and economic crisis demands leadership from the White House, andWisconsin families and businesses are waiting on you to provide it.

Sincerely,