Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin Calls on USDA to Support Wisconsin Cranberry Growers Amidst Coronavirus Pandemic


Dear Secretary Perdue:

The COVID-19 pandemic and associated economic disruption has created great challenges forthe cranberry industry. I urge you to consider the impact and magnitude of these disruptions asyou allocate the $9.5 billion made available to support agriculture, including specialty crops, inthe Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Specifically, I ask you to usethese funds to provide direct financial assistance to cranberry growers and use Section 32authority to make purchases of surplus cranberry products, including juice. As the impact of thisemergency continues to unfold in the coming months, I urge you to utilize all available programsand authorities at USDA to enable growers to weather these challenges.

Affecting cranberry growers from coast-to-coast, the sudden and unpredictable closure of foodservice businesses combined with government-issued stay-at-home orders have heightened thestress of an already challenging business environment. The growing season is now upon us, andsome seasonal farm workers that cranberry growers rely on were unable to return to cranberrymarshes due to travel restrictions. Many growers would like to immediately hire unemployedmembers of their community to replace them, but they do not have sufficient funds immediatelyavailable to do so. Small growers are especially hard hit because many of these families haveunexpectedly lost their non-agricultural income, which was critical for their cash flow. The lossof this additional income leaves many of these growers and their businesses on the brink ofcollapse.

Consumption of cranberry products away from home has fallen by sixty percent since the onsetof the pandemic, and prolonged severe economic damage will continue to affect cranberryconsumption in the months and years to come. This economic fallout comes on the heels of yearsof significant losses in cranberry export markets due to retaliatory tariffs, which haveundermined relationships with large overseas buyers that were developed over many years. Priorto the onset of retaliatory tariffs, China was the largest overseas buyer of cranberries, purchasing$55 million of product annually. The global pandemic now means prolonged export marketclosures during the year when cranberry growers were optimistic about rebuilding relationshipswith international customers. 

There are numerous challenges facing cranberry growers at this time, and they cannot weatherthem alone. Please use the funds provided by Congress to directly assist cranberry growersduring this incredibly challenging time. These family farms play a critical role in providingAmericans healthy food and driving our rural economy. I request that you provide thesehardworking growers the resources they need to keep their businesses running so they cancontinue to contribute to our nation's productivity and wellbeing for generations to come.

Sincerely,