Letter to Steven Mnuchin, Secretary of the Treasury, and Jovita Carranza, Administrator of the Small Business Administration - Senator Baldwin to Trump Administration: Take Action to Fix Paycheck Protection Program and Help Rescue Wisconsin Small Business


Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Administrator Carranza:

I write to you today about concerns I have heard from lenders and small businesses in Wisconsinregarding the Small Business Administration's implementation of the Paycheck ProtectionProgram. I am proud that the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Actincludes reforms included in legislation I authored (S. 3541) to provide small businesses withloan forgiveness if they keep employees on their payroll. Wisconsin small businesses and nonprofits need help meeting their payroll and covering other operating expenses and PPP isuniquely suited to achieve those goals by allowing banks to leverage their expertise and offerSBA-guaranteed loans to their customers. However, I've heard from lenders in Wisconsin thatare frustrated and confused with the rollout of this program and unable to make loans. I havealso heard from small businesses that can't access loans. I ask you to immediately take action toensure banks can swiftly provide these loans and help rescue Wisconsin small businesses andnon-profits.Numerous banks in Wisconsin have reported difficulty accessing the SBA's E-Tran system andthose banks that have been able to access it report technical issues with the website. I urge you towork to provide additional technical capability and support. Technical issues with SBA'ssystems threaten to harm small businesses and non-profits that desperately need financial supportin a timely manner. I have further heard from lenders that in completing the loan applicationprocess, confusion remains regarding questions of loan documentation and calculating payrollcosts. I urge you to work with lenders to provide clear, unambiguous guidance on thesequestions. If the banks charged with making loans to small businesses and non-profits can'tmake loans, small businesses and non-profits will not get the aid they desperately need.I have heard concerns from businesses that can't access loans because they didn't have anexisting relationship with an SBA-approved bank. For example, Norske Nook, an iconic pieshop with locations in Osseo, Rice Lake, Hayward and DeForest Wisconsin, went to their localbank to apply for a Paycheck Protection Program loan. Because their local bank is not an SBApreferred lender, they have not been able to access a loan yet. Norske Nook then went to an SBA preferred lender but was unable to access a loan in a timely manner because they didn'thave an existing relationship with the bank. The SBA needs to make immediate changes toallow companies like Norske Nook to receive this critical aid provided by Congress.Additionally, last week, the U.S. Treasury issued guidance that in order for loans to be forgivenby the Paycheck Protection Program, 75 percent of the loan must cover payroll costs. I'mconcerned that this rule, which was not in the text of the CARES Act, prevents small businesseswith high overhead costs from accessing the program and keeping their workers employed. ScottBrown, a small business owner who operates two Cold Stone Creamery locations in Appleton,Wisconsin, told me that he is concerned that without flexibility to spend more of the loan on rentand other fixed costs, the businesses may not survive. I urge you to change the PPP's rules toallow small businesses to spend a greater amount of their loan on fixed costs. Without thischange, I fear that we will see a wave of small business closures and bankruptcies.I thank you for your attention to this matter and please let me or my office know if we can be offurther assistance.Sincerely