Letter to Andre Nogueira, CEO of JBS USA Holdings, Inc., Noel Whie, CEO Of Tyson Foods, Inc., and Kenneth Sullivan, President and CEO of Smithfield Foods - Baldwin Demands Answers from the Nation's Largest Meat Processors on Failing to Protect Workers from Covid-19


Dear Messrs. Nogueira, Sullivan and White,

I write today with grave concerns about disturbing reports of unsafe working conditions andfacilities failing to follow recommended safety guidelines. This unwillingness to implementrecommended safety precautions in a timely manner has led to death and the spread of illnessfrom COVID-19 that was preventable. Workers at meat processing plants are on the frontlines ofthe COVID-19 pandemic and they deserve to be protected as they take on great personal risk tocontinue to go to work to ensure Americans' food supply chain is not disrupted. Your actionsdirectly impact not only these workers' health and safety, but also that of their family membersand surrounding communities. Additionally, Americans need access to food in these challengingtimes and our farmers and ranchers need to be able to sell their livestock to processors. If meatprocessing facilities are unsafe for workers, production will slow causing challenges for farmersand ranchers and threatening our nation's food supply.

Across the country, meat processing plants have become hotspots for COVID-19, threateningworker health and safety, the integrity of our food supply chain, and consumer trust in yourcompanies. As just one example, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel has reported meat processingplants are playing a central role in the spread of COVID-19 in the state of Wisconsin1. In Brown County, as of April 29, more than half of the over 900 confirmed cases of COVID-19 are linkedto food processing plants and 334 of those cases are linked to a single JBS USA plant in GreenBay. The JBS facility in Green Bay was voluntarily shut down following the COVID-19 outbreak. In addition, we've seen an outbreak at the Patrick Cudahy Smithfield Foods Plant,where 85 workers have tested positive as of May 4. This facility was also shut down followingthe spread of the virus. According to reports, workers were only provided face masks in Apriland learned of infections at the plant from their fellow employees. In addition, the companyresisted releasing full details about the scope of the outbreak at the facility.

On April 25, a Washington Post investigation revealed that, "Three of the nation's largest meatprocessors" [Tyson Foods, JBS USA, and Smithfield Foods], "failed to provide protective gearto all workers, and some employees say they were told to continue working in crowded plantseven while sick as the coronavirus spread around the country and turned the facilities intoinfection hot spots." Workers were also retaliated against, and even fired, for raising safetyconcerns with supervisors or refusing to do work they feared would expose them to COVID-19.3

Firsthand accounts from workers in meatpacking and poultry plants from Georgia, Alabama,Iowa, Indiana, Colorado, Washington, and Wisconsin reveal a failure to follow Centers forDisease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidance published in March on social distancing andother measures employers need to take to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in the workplace.Workers have described being allowed to stand shoulder-to-shoulder on the assembly line, and tocrowd into break rooms and locker rooms.

Major news organizations, including the Washington Post, USA Today, the New York Timesand the BBC, as well as dozens of local news outlets, have also reported that workers were notprovided face masks in processing plants--despite clear CDC guidance that masks help preventthe spread of COVID-19. In some instances, workers and their local unions repeatedly askedcompanies to implement preventive measures including asking for time and resources soemployees could properly wash hands and sanitize equipment, but to no avail. Now, 5,000workers in the meatpacking industry either have COVID-19 or have been forced to selfquarantine and 20 workers have died.

Further, news reports indicate that contrary to all CDC guidance that workers stay home if theyare sick with or experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, companies have implemented policiesthat encouraged sick workers to come to work. The Washington Post reported that healthofficials in a Colorado county with a large meat processing plant chastised the company forhaving a "work while sick" culture and said the county's analysis showed that 64 percent ofworkers who tested positive for COVID-19 had "worked while symptomatic and therefore werecontagious to others." The BBC reported that your companies have incentivized workers tocome into work whether they are sick or not by making bonuses only available to workers whodid not miss any scheduled shifts for the month of April. 

On Sunday, April 26, CDC issued additional guidance for the meat packing industry: "Guidancefor Meat and Poultry Processing Workers and Employers." These guidelines detail stepsemployers should take, including: specific administrative controls that employers should instituteto maintain a six foot distance between workers; controlling and limiting the type and duration ofcontact between workers in the workplace and during transport to and from work; reviewing andadjusting leave and incentive policies to make sure ill workers are not in the workplace;providing workers access to soap, clean running water, and single use paper towels forhandwashing; educating and training workers and supervisors about how they can reduce thespread of COVID-19 in languages spoken or read by the workers; and properly cleaning anddisinfecting the entire plant and regularly sanitizing work stations.8

The various accounts, findings, and investigative reports from the Washington Post verify whatworker health and safety advocates have been saying for months: that voluntary safety guidelinesare not being followed and are, therefore, not sufficient to protect workers, the surroundingcommunities, and our nation's food supply chain. Mandated and enforceable worker health andsafety protections such as those that would be created with the issuance of an EmergencyTemporary Standard by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as would bemandated by the COVID-19 Every Worker Protection Act, are the single best way to require allemployers to protect the health and safety of their workers and prevent additional outbreaks andfurther spread of the coronavirus.

In the meantime, I urge you to immediately and fully implement the new CDC Guidance forMeat and Poultry Processing Workers and Employers. I also encourage you to share anyinformation you have about COVID-19 confirmed cases and exposures rates within your facilitywith health officials and the public to help prevent further spread of the virus. Your employees'lives, and the health and safety of the surrounding communities in which you operate, dependupon your swift action.1. The CDC recently released new guidance "Guidance for Meat and Poultry ProcessingWorkers and Employers" after the CDC, with County and State officials, reported ablatant disregard for COVID-19 safety guidelines at the Smithfield Foods plant inSioux Falls, South Dakota. When can workers expect you to fully implement thesenew recommended safety guidelines? What documentation will you provide toworkers and the public to confirm these operating changes?2. Will you commit to refraining from reopening your facilities until you are able toproperly train and educate workers on new procedures, and fully implement thesenew CDC guidelines?3. How are you implementing social distancing on your production lines, in break roomsand locker rooms, and when workers enter and exit your plants?4. What kind of PPE are you providing to all workers, including face masks, and whatare the guidelines for keeping such PPE sanitary?5. Are you compensating all workers, at their regular rate of pay, for time spent donningand doffing their PPE and washing their persons before and after work?6. How are you assuring workers have time to regularly use the bathrooms and washtheir hands before and after breaks or eating meals?7. What are the conditions workers must meet to receive the $500 Responsibility Bonusas part of the #ThankAFoodWorker Initiative or other bonus initiatives?8. How are you educating and training your employees to practice safety guidelinesoutlined by the CDC and OSHA? Additionally, how are you making sure thisinformation is shared in a manner that can bridge language and cultural barriers soyour employees can fully understand them?9. Will you commit to providing details regarding COVID-19 cases at your facilities tothe public?

Thank you for your prompt response to my inquiries.

Sincerely,