National Institutes of Health


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I rise today to sound the alarm about  what is happening to our Nation's ability to advance lifesaving medical  research in the first month of the Trump administration.

As many of you know, I am a proud graduate of the University of  Wisconsin-Madison Law School. In many ways, I grew up at the  university, where both of my grandparents, who raised me, worked. My  grandmother ran the costume lab at the theater department, and my  grandfather was a scientist. He was a biochemist who spent four decades  unlocking the key to how our metabolism works--in large part thanks to  funding from the National Institutes of Health. My grandfather and his  colleagues pioneered breakthroughs that impacted biochemistry around  the world, leading to all kinds of developments to keep our bodies  healthy, from nutrition and diet to advanced drugs, to, really, so much  more.

I share my grandfather's story because it demonstrates why the NIH is  so essential. As the world's premier biomedical research institution,  the NIH invests in our health, our national security, our economy, and  our future. These investments influence our Nation's competitive edge,  patients' treatment options, and, simply put, American lives for  generations to come.

Research supported by the NIH has helped us find breakthroughs for  treating diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, and substance use disorders. It  is supporting clinical trials right now for patients battling terminal  diagnoses for cancer. In fiscal year 2023, the NIH generated almost $93  billion in economic activity--nearly twice the Agency's budget.

The engine behind all of it is, of course, researchers and  scientists. They are dedicated scientists like my grandfather who right  now are worried that their life's work--the work of keeping our loved  ones healthy and saving lives--is in danger, all because Elon Musk and  President Trump are firing nearly 1,200 critical staff across NIH  Institutes and Centers, halting lifesaving research in its tracks, and  indiscriminately and illegally freezing funding from going out the door  to academic and research institutions across the country.

Across the Department of Health and Human Services, Trump and Elon  Musk have fired more than 5,000 public servants. We are talking about  scientists, doctors, researchers, and so many others who are doing this  critical work to keep us healthy.

Musk and Trump are going so much deeper than firing the HHS  workforce, which is damaging enough to research programs and puts  Americans' lives at risk; they are throwing sand in the gears of the  NIH--their basic grant-making operations--to prevent scientists from  getting the resources they need to conduct lifesaving biomedical  research in the first place.

For instance, the President has unilaterally fired more than 130  employees at the National Cancer Institute--many of them scientists.  Across the NIH, Trump and Musk have fired 160 program officers, grant  management specialists, and other key administrators whose job it is to  get grant funding out the door to universities and other research  institutions across the country.

Since President Trump took office, his administration has canceled  more than 70 NIH study sections and advisory council meetings that are  the final step in grant approval. This means that more than $1.5  billion in funding has been withheld so far--illegally and in blatant  defiance of court orders--by this administration. The impact is already  having ripple effects across the research community.

Take, for instance, Alzheimer's disease research. The Trump  administration has stopped tens of millions of dollars from going out  the door for Alzheimer's research, halting studies, clinical trials,  and moving us further from a cure.

The Trump administration is also terminating entire NIH training  programs focused on supporting early career scientists from diverse  backgrounds and folks who are underrepresented today in biomedical  research. In its endless quest to cancel any program that even uses the  word ``diversity,'' the Trump administration has even paused research  involving women.

Make no mistake, we will be feeling the impact of these cuts for  decades to come. Universities are pausing graduate student admissions  because they aren't sure they will have the funding to support the  students they currently have enrolled.

What is at stake is not just a generation of talent and our Nation's  competitive edge; it is also the next breakthrough that could cure  cancer or Alzheimer's disease. Thanks to Donald Trump's actions, the  United States may lose its global competitive edge in biomedical  research and cede it to China.

In Wisconsin, our universities follow a long-held tradition known as  the Wisconsin Idea. It is a pretty simple philosophy that says the work  done at our universities should make an impact far beyond the classroom  itself, and it does. From vitamin D, to human embryonic stem cells, to  blood thinners and new treatments for Alzheimer's disease, Wisconsin  universities and dedicated scientists like my grandfather have  discovered breakthroughs that revolutionize the world of medicine and,  more importantly, revolutionize how we keep our loved ones safe and  well.

So when President Trump and Elon Musk come after this funding and  come after these public servants, they aren't just coming after  scientists in classrooms and laboratories; the impact will spread far  beyond those institutions. When they come after the NIH, they are  coming after patients with terminal illnesses, who are right now being  turned away from potentially lifesaving clinical trials because of  these cuts. They are coming after the next breakthrough that could have  helped your loved one battling Alzheimer's. They are coming after a  young scientist who is living paycheck to paycheck who will not be able  to pursue a research career developing treatments to help others get  better.

Now, you may be asking yourself: Why are Donald Trump and Elon Musk  doing this? Well, the answer is pretty simple--so they can give tax  breaks to billionaires. Why are they cutting off clinical trials and  cancer research? So that people like Elon Musk don't have to pay their  fair share. Why are they withholding funding to find a cure for  Alzheimer's disease? So big corporations can pay less in taxes than the  average American family. The cuts we are seeing right now will damage  Americans' lives for the next generation--all so the wealthiest  Americans can get wealthier.

We must stand up to this illegal freeze on funding, this assault on  the Federal workforce, and these billions of dollars in cuts that will  take decades to undo. Our health and the health of our loved ones  depend upon it.