Recognizing the Centennial of Messmer High School


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701827/recognizing-the-centennial-of-messmer-high-school


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today I rise to recognize Messmer High  School in Milwaukee, WI, on their 100th anniversary. I am pleased to  honor this organization and to commemorate this historic milestone.

Founded by Archbishop Sebastian Messmer in 1926 in the city of  Milwaukee, Messmer High School was built on a vision of uniting  Milwaukee's Catholic parishes and providing a high-quality education  rooted in faith for the city's immigrant families. For the past 100  years, Messmer has been a cornerstone of education and opportunity in  Milwaukee.

In the 1920s, Milwaukee was a diverse industrial city defined by  established immigrant communities. There were large German, Polish,  Italian, Mexican, and Eastern European immigrant populations throughout  the city, many of which were working-class and low-income. Throughout  its early years, led by the School Sisters of Notre Dame and the  Capuchin Friars, Messmer quickly became a thriving center of academic  excellence, spiritual formation, and community spirit.

Over the past century, Messmer has earned a reputation for its  welcoming, family-like culture and a commitment to preparing students  for both college and the trades. After the Great Depression and World  War II, the school evolved with the changing landscape of Milwaukee to  embrace new generations of students from diverse backgrounds. Messmer  has become one of Milwaukee's most integrated Catholic high schools  through its model of inclusion and faith in action.

In the 1980s, the archdiocese announced plans to close the school.  However, a group of determined parents and alumni refused to let  Messmer's mission die. This grassroots effort is deemed the ``Messmer  Miracle'' and helped reopen the school while instilling a lasting sense  of pride in the institution. Countless people and families have been  shaped by Messmer over the past 100 years through the education it  provides and the strong sense of community it fosters.

As we honor this significant milestone for Messmer High School, I am  grateful for their continued education of Milwaukee's youth, and I look  forward to its continued success in the years to come.