Recognizing the 25th Anniversary of the Center for Patient Partnerships


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701578/recognizing-the-25th-anniversary-of-the-center-for-patient-partnerships


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today I rise to recognize the Center for  Patient Partnerships on its 25th anniversary. I am pleased to honor  this organization and to commemorate this historic milestone.

Founded in 2000 by Meg Gaines, a law professor and cancer survivor,  the Center for Patient Partnerships was built on the belief that we  must work together to transform healthcare for all. For 25 years, the  Center for Patient Partnerships has advanced a vision of patients  working in partnership with medical and legal professionals in the  fight for patient advocacy.

The Center for Patient Partnerships serves those with life- threatening and chronic illnesses by providing a full range of advocacy  services. It helps patients navigate complex healthcare systems through  personalized support in order to better understand their treatment  options and access necessary medical and legal resources.

For 25 years now, the Center for Patient Partnerships has supported  thousands of patients, ensuring they are equipped with the knowledge  and guidance necessary to make informed decisions about their care.

In addition to individual services, the Center for Patient  Partnerships is helping shape the future of healthcare through  education. Offering training programs that bring together law,  medicine, nursing, and pharmacy students, these programs give students  the skills needed to become compassionate advocates and professionals  in healthcare. This model has established the organization as a  national leader in patient-centered education and advocacy.

The Center for Patient Partnerships also contributes to research and  policy efforts aimed at improving healthcare delivery and patient- centered care. Its work focuses on consumer engagement and systemic  reform to influence how healthcare systems respond to the patient  needs.

As we recognize the Center for Patient Partnerships, we also honor  the leadership of Meg Gaines, whose work has transformed countless  lives and inspired a new generation of advocates. I am grateful for the  center's continued service to patients and their commitment to  strengthening our healthcare system. I look forward to their continued  success in the years to come.