Recognizing the 50th Anniversary of Wisconsin Regional Training Partnership Building Industry Group Skilled Trade Employment Program


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695334/recognizing-the-50th-anniversary-of-wisconsin-regional-training-partnership-building-industry-group-skilled-trade-employment-program


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I rise to recognize the 50th anniversary  of Wisconsin Regional Training Partnership, WRTP, Building Industry  Group Skilled Trade Employment Program's, BIG STEP. I am delighted to  celebrate this impactful organization's 50 years of service to the  State of Wisconsin.

Founded in 1975, WRTP BIG STEP was determined to improve the labor  force through its efforts in reshaping apprenticeships. The  organization envisioned an environment that intertwined diversity,  resilience, and creativity to produce an incredible generation of  workers. Soon, their vision became a reality as WRTP BIG STEP developed  pre-apprenticeship programs and advanced training courses that  increased the number of minority workers, ensuring everyone has a  pathway to a quality career in the trades.

Over the last 50 years, BIG STEP has been essential to creating  Milwaukee landmarks, from our skyscrapers to our sports complexes.  After helping tens of thousands of people take their first steps into  the trades, BIG STEP has served Wisconsin's workforce by building  courage, innovation, and equity.

Today, WRTP BIG STEP creates pre-apprenticeship programs and provides  access to specialized training, consistent sponsorship, and support for  its clients with targeted curricula for direct career pathways. In  addition, WTRP BIG STEP helps industry employers and labor  organizations create career pathways through intercultural workforce  learning, the development of a skilled talent pipeline, and through  working groups that identify and reduce barriers in real time. As just  one example of their work, WRTP BIG STEP recently welcomed 180 high  school students to their Milwaukee Summer Trades Academy, introducing  them to careers in construction and teaching them about skilled trade  jobs and apprenticeship pathways, so they could consider a future  career in the skilled trades.

We in Wisconsin are so grateful to WRTP BIG STEP for helping to  uplift our workforce and create the next generation of leaders. I am  honored to recognize the 50th anniversary of WRTP BIG STEP and look  forward to its continued success in Wisconsin for years to come.