Rescissions Act of 2025


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, the rescissions package before us reduces  access to educational programming for children and locally produced  public radio and television programming. It diminishes America's global  leadership while eliminating lifesaving aid from the world's most  vulnerable populations.

I want to spend a minute on the impact that this will have on public  radio and television, including the disproportionate impact it will  have on rural communities.

One in four Wisconsinites lives in a rural community, and many rely  on public broadcasting for local news, emergency alerts, and free  educational programming, especially for children. Wisconsin Public  Radio is the primary broadcast relay for Wisconsin's Emergency Alert  System, including AMBER Alerts and lifesaving weather alerts like  tornado and flash flood warnings. Look no further than the absolutely  devastating news out of Texas. Access to high-quality information can  truly be the difference between life and death. Access to local news  from reporters and sources that community members trust is more  important than ever.

Stripping away this funding would also endanger local news that is  already disappearing in so many Wisconsin communities. In 2024--just  last year--almost 20 percent of our local newspapers shut down in  Wisconsin, according to a study by Northwestern University. That same  study found that Wisconsin's northernmost county, Bayfield, had no  local news sources at all while 22 counties across Wisconsin had just 1  local news source.

That is where public radio plays a critical role in keeping  Wisconsinites connected with their communities. Stations like WXPR in  Rhinelander, WI, would be under threat if this package advances--one of  the few news sources producing local reporting in Wisconsin's  Northwoods and Michigan's Upper Peninsula--or Radio Milwaukee, which,  because of public funding, can broadcast local school board meetings  for parents and families to stay in touch with what is happening in  their communities.

Without Federal support for public media, this critical information  could disappear for Wisconsin families. This is what public  broadcasting means for Wisconsinites, but it applies to all the States  that we represent. That should be reason enough to oppose this bill on  the substance of it.

But the other reason is the extraordinary process that is being used  to make this change and the impact it would have on the ability of this  body to perform its most basic functions. If passed, this bill would  represent the first time this rescissions process would be used to pass  completely partisan rescissions, and in doing so, we would undo  bipartisan agreements.

That is why I oppose this bill, and I hope enough of my colleagues on  the other side of the aisle will choose to do so as well.

The Senate passes bipartisan appropriations bills every year. They  are hard, and they take months to negotiate, and it doesn't always work  as well as it should. Senators on both sides of the aisle often discuss  wanting to return to something we call regular order. We decry full- year continuing resolutions, or CRs, and government shutdowns. We say  we want to bring appropriations bills to the floor. This isn't a  pipedream, and I reject the idea that the appropriations process can't  work anymore. More often than not, we pass appropriations bills within  the first few months of the new fiscal year--not ideal but workable. We  certainly need to work to make it better, and the full-year continuing  resolution we find ourselves in right now is a prime example of its  failing, but throwing in the towel, as this bill does, would make it so  much worse.

I want to highlight one example of when the appropriations process  worked how it should that is particularly relevant in this exact  moment.

It was just a few years ago, in fiscal year 2019, that the Labor- Health and Human Services bill--not the easiest bill--passed the Senate  and was signed into law prior to the start of the next fiscal year. At  that time, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator  Shelby, along with other Republicans and in working with Democrats,  vowed to return to regular order and committed to it.

In May of 2018, President Trump submitted a rescissions package just  like the one we are contending with today. Enough Republicans joined  all of the Democrats in opposing it. It failed, and that was the end of  it.

Then, 3 months later, a combined Defense and Labor-Health and Human  Services bill passed. It passed the Senate; it passed the House; and it  was signed into law by President Trump on September 28--just days short  of the expiration of fiscal year 2018. It wasn't the only pair of  bills. Several other appropriations bills were enacted prior to October  1 also.

My Republican colleagues knew then that passing partisan rescissions  packages would make passing bipartisan appropriations bills that much  harder, if it would be possible at all. That is what we are debating  today. The issue here is really simple: How can any minority party,  Democrat or Republican, make concessions as part of these bipartisan  appropriations negotiations if the majority just walks back those deals  a few months later?

The answer is, it can't, and that is why we have never passed  partisan rescissions packages like this before.

Passing this rescissions package will also, very likely, mean that  there will be more to come. In fact, OMB Director Russ Vought has said  as much. Right now, the Department of Education is withholding $7  billion in funding that normally goes out at this time of year to the  States for the upcoming school year to support afterschool programs,  STEM education, school counselors, and smaller class sizes, among many  other things.

Will the administration put that funding in the next rescissions  package?

So, if we pass this bill, we would find ourselves right back here in  a couple of months--with the President exerting his influence to pass  another partisan rescissions package--or we can end this here, like we  did in 2018, and deal with these issues where they should be dealt with  and where they frequently are dealt with as part of the appropriations  process. We can and should debate the issues raised in this rescissions  package as part of the annual appropriations process. We should mark up  bills  in committee and bring them to the floor.

But you cannot vote for this rescissions package and then argue for  regular order or decry brinksmanship over government funding and  government shutdowns or full-year continuing resolutions because  walking back on bipartisan agreements like this rescissions package  does will make future bipartisan agreements that much harder, if not  impossible.

As the ranking member on the Labor, Health and Human Services  Subcommittee, I commit to working with my Republican colleagues on  their specific concerns with funding for the Corporation for Public  Broadcasting, but the concerns I have heard raised as part of the  debate on this package actually weren't even raised as part of the  appropriations process in the last 2 years as I chaired this  subcommittee. My colleagues are saying that this is such a grave  problem that we have to take the extraordinary step of rescinding  funding when these issues weren't even raised when we passed the  appropriations bills with this funding in it originally. That is not  how this process should work.

To my colleagues, if you are for regular order, if you want this body  to work better and want more bipartisanship and less partisanship, I  sincerely ask you to deeply reflect on what this vote means for that  goal that a majority of our constituents want from us. I urge my  colleagues to vote no.