Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688456/statements-on-introduced-bills-and-joint-resolutions


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today, I rise to reaffirm my partnership  with Senator Susan Collins in the Lifespan Respite Care Reauthorization  Act of 2025.

Senator Collins and I recognize the challenges that family caregivers  face. We have worked together over many years to advance legislation to  support the essential role that caregivers play in our communities. We  were successful in passing legislation that establishes a national  strategy to support family caregivers, the RAISE Family Caregivers Act,  and we are committed to reauthorizing the Lifespan Respite Care Program  that supports the health and well-being of family caregivers.

Every day, family caregivers in Wisconsin and across our country tend  to the needs of their loved ones. Although this work can be very, very  rewarding, it can also be emotionally and physically challenging.

After serving as my grandmother's primary caregiver as she got older,  I know firsthand the time, the dedication, and the sacrifice involved  to keep our aging, disabled, or sick loved ones safe and well.  Caregiving can be a 24/7 job, and too often, family caregivers  compromise their own health to ensure that their loved ones are not  left in limbo.

Respite care offers family caregivers a necessary break to focus on  their own mental health and well-being. That is why I was proud to  reintroduce our bipartisan legislation so that our family caregivers  can access the support and the relief they need. This bill would  support family caregivers by reauthorizing the Lifespan Respite Care  Program, which allows full-time caregivers to take a temporary break  from their responsibilities caring for aging or disabled loved ones.

Across the country, there are over 53 million Americans who currently  provide uncompensated care for their families, which provides an  estimated $600 billion in uncompensated care each year. Let that sink  in.

By protecting the health of caregivers, respite care decreases the  need for professional long-term care and allows individuals who require  care to remain at home.

I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Collins to advance  this important legislation in the 119th Congress.                                  ______

By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr. Grassley):

S. 835. A bill to amend the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to  establish a voluntary program to reduce food loss and waste, and for  other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and  Forestry.