Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696335/trump-administration


Ms. BALDWIN. Will the Senator yield for a question?

Ms. BALDWIN. Thank you.

Senator Merkley, you and I are both members of the Senate  Appropriations Committee.

I have a question for you about how critical a functioning Congress  and a functioning appropriations process is to our separation of  powers, our checks and balances, and, therefore, to our very democracy.

The Federal Government is currently shut down because Republicans who  control the House, the Senate, and the White House are hell-bent on  raising healthcare costs for the American people. In fact, 22 million  Americans are about to see their health insurance costs potentially  double, triple, or more. And the only way for us to get out of this  mess is for Democrats and Republicans to sit down together and  negotiate a solution.

So far, Republicans refuse to come to the table. The House has been  out of session for over a month--out of town--and President Trump is  leaving the country, again, at the end of this week.

The longer this Trump shutdown continues, it appears more likely that  our Republican colleagues will totally give up Congress's power, which,  of course, is the power of the people in the government-funding  process.

In fact, this morning, reporters are circulating the Capitol,  speculating that Congress will give up on passing fiscal year 2026  appropriations bills and instead attempt to pass a full-year continuing  resolution. This would be a failure on the part of the House and the  Senate majority, controlled by Republicans. And, really, it would be a  failure on the part of President Donald Trump. It would be a failure  that undermines one of Congress's core democratic functions: setting  priorities through the power of the purse.

So my question for you, as you hold the floor to shine a light on the  ways in which this President continues to undermine our democracy and  disregard the Constitution: How is Donald Trump undermining Congress  through his attacks on the bipartisan appropriations process? And when  he does that and the majority--the Republicans in Congress--allow this  to happen, how do the American people lose?

Ms. BALDWIN. Thank you.