U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin Joins Bipartisan Senate Climate Solutions Caucus


Today, U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) joined the bipartisan Senate Climate Solutions Caucus that brings together an equal number of Republicans and Democrats to craft and advance bipartisan solutions to address our changing climate.

"Let there be no doubt, climate change is a real, immediate and growing threat to national security, public health and our economy. The longer we fail to act, the more costly climate change will be. I'm hopeful this bipartisan caucus will work together on real solutions," said Senator Baldwin. "Of particular concern to us in Wisconsin are the costs of infrastructure damage from severe flooding, crop and livestock losses from extreme weather, and increasing water pollution in our Great Lakes and inland lakes and rivers. These are threats to major parts of our Wisconsin economy. Taking bold action to confront climate change is not just an environmental goal; it is an urgent economic necessity for us in Wisconsin."

The other members of the bipartisan Senate Climate Solutions Caucus include Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Mike Braun (R-IN), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Susan Collins (R-ME), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Mitt Romney (R-UT), Angus King (I-ME), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Michael Bennet (D-CO).

The Senate Climate Solutions Caucus promotes bipartisan discussion about climate policy and advocates for Congress to play a central role in addressing the challenge. Since launching in late 2019, the caucus has held regular meetings with members and staff, including with Microsoft founder Bill Gates and with CEOs who are members of the CEO Climate Dialogue. In the coming weeks, the caucus will hold meetings with executives from Fortune 500 companies who are members of the Climate Leadership Council, representatives from the Global CCS Institute, member companies of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, ambassadors, and leaders from a variety of faith traditions to discuss their concerns and priorities for federal climate policy and opportunities for collaboration.