War Powers Resolution


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700316/war-powers-resolution


Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of my  colleague from Virginia Senator Kaine's resolution prohibiting the  United States from continuing this illegal war in Iran.

I want to start with the basic premise that I think we can all agree  on: We are here to represent the people of our States and their  desires. Wisconsinites have been unequivocal that they do not want  another foreign war. I agree with them, and for a while, it seemed  Donald Trump did too. The President promised not to get into more  foreign wars, but the President broke that promise and has gone all in  on war with Iran. The consequences are dire. Six American  servicemembers are now dead. My heart absolutely breaks for their  parents, their siblings, their children, their spouses, and their  communities. Thousands of Americans in uniform who are stationed in the  region are at risk because of the President's reckless and illegal war.

And what does the President have to say? He says that it is likely  more Americans are going to die. He said that is just the way it is. He  said that. The President's callous response shows his disregard for the  men and women he is supposed to lead.

Our Constitution is crystal clear: If our country is going to war,  Congress needs to vote on it.

In 2002, Congress debated the war in Iraq, and I opposed it. I  believed the Bush administration dangerously underestimated the  potential consequences and did not have a clear path forward after the  initial military operation. I was right. As a result, thousands of  brave service men and women died, taxpayers paid billions of dollars,  and we got ourselves into a yearslong war in the Middle East.

I have the same concerns today. I fully agree that Iran's regime is a  dangerous and murderous one and can't be allowed to obtain a nuclear  weapon, but how we deal with them and keep America safe matters.  Diplomacy--the hard work of peacefully negotiating--is the answer, not  war. That is exactly why I supported the 2015 deal that kept Iran from  getting a nuclear weapon, but President Trump ripped that deal up and  allowed Iran's nuclear program to flourish.

Wisconsinites see exactly what this President is doing, and they do  not support it. They want President Trump to live up to his promises  and to address their kitchen-table issues and concerns, not pull our  country into another foreign war.