Education is of Great Importance to Congressional Black Caucus, Congress, and Constituents


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689644/education-is-of-great-importance-to-congressional-black-caucus-congress-and-constituents


Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, the President of the United States signed an  executive order to dismantle the Department of Education. It is very  important for people to understand what calls for the closure of the  Department of Education would mean to local communities.

The Department of Education is responsible for protecting the civil  rights of students, supporting students from low-income backgrounds,  developing and preparing educators, providing resources for English  language learners, collecting statistics on enrollment, staffing, and  crime in schools, and for the $1.6 trillion Federal student loan  program.

Many parents are concerned about disruptions to programs and services  that ensure that the 7.5 million children with disabilities and 49  million students enrolled in K-12 public education get the education  they deserve.

President Donald Trump and his administration do not have the  authority to dismantle the Department of Education. Only Congress has  that authority. An agency created by Congress can only be dismantled by  Congress. However, by firing 50 percent of Federal workers at the  Department of Education and terminating funding for ongoing Federal  education research, the Trump administration is making it difficult for  the Department to accomplish its goals of ensuring equal access to  education for all students.

The Department of Education does not influence public school  curriculum, instruction, or instructional materials. Those decisions  are already made at the local level by local boards of education.

I am trying to state the facts, to lay them out so that the people at  home understand what is happening right now. This is not an emotional  journey. This is not an effort to save a department that does not help  people. It is, in fact, law.

The Department was created by Congress. There are 7.5 million  students who receive special education services that the Department of  Education ensures that they get. You heard Congresswoman McClellan say  that I was a public schoolteacher for 15 years. I worked in a title I  school district. I understand that it is rural communities, low-income  communities, communities that don't have large tax bases that will be  hurt the most. It is my community.

Education is the great equalizer. I don't understand how if we want  to have conversations about making the  Department more efficient or more effective that isn't happening here  in Congress. That isn't happening in the committees of jurisdiction. I  don't understand how my colleagues are giving away all of our  congressional authority to make sure that the children in our  communities are protected.

Ending funding or eliminating the Department does not end our legal  obligation to provide services to kids who rely on public education.  One of two things is going to happen in your communities: Either other  services will be cut or local property taxes will be raised to  compensate for the lack of Federal funding that communities will  receive.

The thing is, here in Congress we go back and forth between  majorities and minorities. We have policy debates and disputes, but our  kids can't wait 4 years. They can't wait another congressional term.  They can't wait until we figure it out because what we are actually  doing today they needed us to do 20 years ago. There are so many  funding gaps and so many services that students still don't receive.

I hear people talk over and over about the NAEP scores and how  students are not at proficiency or where they need to be. I would  encourage you to disaggregate those scores and look at the lack of  funding over the years, look at the States that have disinvested over  time in education. Look at the communities that don't value public  education. Those are the communities that are dragging those scores  down.

We have so much work to do here in the Congress. Our budgets are a  statement of our values. In the same sentence or at the same press  conference where the President talked about cuts to public education,  he also talked about additional military grants to build aircraft. I  don't understand how as a country we keep increasing military and  defense funding and keep taking away from our children, whether it is  education, food, or basic services that families need. I really don't  understand it. Of all the things that we could be doing here, cuts to  public education should not be one of them.

I will end by just saying, the President and the Secretary of  Education keep promising that there is a plan. I haven't seen anything  articulated. We don't know what happens next. We don't know how these  services will be provided. He says that some things will go to HHS, and  a small business will handle student loans.

For anyone who has actually worked in education, you know that by  April, you are closing out your budgets. You are already planning for  the next year, so we are already too late as far as giving information  to schools as to what they do in September. They need to be ready to go  on day one for the 49 million children who depend on public education.

Still there is no plan. We are weeks into this executive order, and  no plan. Nothing from the Secretary of Education, nothing submitted to  Congress, no concrete plan about who would take over IEPs, special  education services, and the civil rights protections that are  guaranteed by the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. No plan.  Just empty promises from an administration that has been dead set on  cutting public education to the kids who need it most.

The Congressional Black Caucus and House Democratic Members are  committed to continuing the work to make sure that these cuts do not go  unchallenged because if they were as good as the President and his  cohorts, Secretary McMahon and Elon Musk, say they are, then they would  be here before Congress with a detailed plan to share with the American  people of how this will work and what happens next.

Mr. Speaker, I can tell you, coming from a State like Connecticut  where we value education, I want a high-quality education for every  student. Even the kids in Louisiana with some of the lowest test scores  in the Nation and even the kids in our rural communities, I want those  kids to have a good, high-quality public education. I am going to fight  just as hard for them as I will for the kids in my congressional  district.