Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698939/protecting-education-for-children-with-disabilities


Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to lead this Special Order hour  and to speak about a matter of great importance to millions of American  children. With everything going on, it is easy to overlook what is  happening at the Department of Education.

Today, I would like to highlight the concerns of parents who have  children living with disabilities. They are scared, concerned, and  confused.

The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA, is the  Federal law that ensures children with disabilities receive a free and  appropriate public education tailored to their unique learning needs.

IDEA provides services to children from birth to age 21. Since its  enactment in 1975, IDEA focused on providing children with disabilities  the same educational opportunities as all other students. It allows the  7.5 million children living with disabilities who rely on services to  receive early intervention and remain in the least restrictive  environments alongside their nondisabled peers.

It provides grants and helps parents with their rights and to know  what is legally required of schools to develop individualized  educational plans, detailing specific goals, services, and support for  students.

IDEA requires that teachers be highly qualified with ongoing  training, ensuring they meet the unique needs of students with  disabilities. These services are there to provide students with  postsecondary education, employment, and independent living.

IDEA addresses past failures to educate students with disabilities. I  am old enough to remember a time when students with special needs were  educated in the basement of schools or outright denied entry. Before  IDEA, millions of children with disabilities were denied an education  and often refused admission to schools or even programs.

Today, children with disabilities are able to attend any public  school and receive services at no cost to their parents. They have  legal and civil rights protections for their children under this  landmark law.

On March 20, 2025, the President signed an executive order directing  the Secretary of Education, Linda McMahon, to facilitate the  dismantling of the Department of Education, which raises significant  questions about the future of IDEA and the impact on the education of  these 7.5 million children.

The students who would be hurt the most by weakening the Individuals  with Disabilities Education Act are the children who are the most  vulnerable. In nearly every State, public schools are primarily funded  by State and local governments with local property taxes playing a  crucial role.

Without IDEA and Federal resources, these students could end up in  underfunded schools that lack resources, expertise, or accountability  to provide the special education services and supports they require.

IDEA is Federal law, which means that even without funding from the  Department of Education, State and local districts will have to figure  out how they will make up this deficit. They will still have to provide  services and likely have to cut other programs.

This could mean a student with dyslexia would no longer receive daily  reading interventions. A student who was deaf or hard of hearing would  not have a sign language interpreter. A student who just needed a  little bit of speech therapy in order to be a part of the class would  not have that, making it nearly impossible to follow daily lessons or  participate in discussions.

Weakening IDEA would not only cut funding or reduce services, but it  would threaten the future of these students who with just the right  amount of support and accommodations could thrive.

The stakes are too high. We must protect the Department of Education,  and we must protect IDEA. This administration has yet to lay out any  detailed plan for the future of IDEA.

I have serious concerns about moving services for students with  disabilities to HHS because then they are only being viewed through a  medical lens. They would only be diagnosed and would not be seen as  students first and given the resources they needed to survive.

Today, I would like to elevate the stories of my colleagues who have  children and families living in their district who rely so heavily on  the services that the Federal Government provides.

Adams), a member of the Committee on Education and Workforce.

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Adams for her  remarks. As she noted, I was a classroom teacher for over 15 years. I  know exactly how important these resources and supports are. I had  students who had severe learning disabilities but who were able to  thrive with the appropriate accommodations and the resources and  support in the classroom.

Mr. Speaker, I would also like to note that in my State of  Connecticut, in 2025, we received approximately $160 million from the  Federal Government in order to facilitate services for students with  exceptionalities. A State like Connecticut would have to fill that gap  in order to make sure these students continue to receive services. What  is happening with the Department of Education is of grave concern to  me.

Bynum).

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Oregon for her  support.

To the gentlewoman's point, the IDEA has never been fully funded as  the Federal Government promised. In the State of Oregon, they received  $162 million in 2025, which is just a fraction of what it costs to  educate students with special needs.

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, as our colleague on the committee from  Oregon makes her way to the podium, I will just read an excerpt from an  email that I got from a parent in my district:

As a special needs mom, the current news of the cuts       happening in the special education department are frightening       to me. I am not well-versed in politics or government, and I       don't know how or if this will affect us in Connecticut, but       I am my child's only advocate, and I can tell you that our       special education system is strained.

Please put yourself in the shoes of a special needs parent       who relies on the staff to tell them what happened at school       because their child cannot. I ask that you place yourself in       the shoes of a parent who cannot afford out-of-pocket       services and relies on the public school system to provide       speech, occupational, and behavioral services.

Please advocate for my child. I don't even know how to. I       need you to do this for them.

Bonamici).

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Brown. I think she  knows I will always fight for RJ and all the kids like him.

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I would just like to say as a teacher, when  students with disabilities enter public schools, they can't be turned  away. You have to figure out what their needs are. You have to meet  with parents and the team to come up with a plan and teach those  students.

Unlike charter schools, for-profit schools, or even some private  schools, which can decide that a student doesn't belong in their  environment, at public schools, all kids belong there. We just have to  figure out how to teach them.

Moore).

Mrs. HAYES. It has been floated, but we haven't seen any concrete  plans, which is part of the problem.

Mrs. HAYES. Yes. Many employees were RIF'd at the Department of  Education. I think even more concerning is the Office of Civil Rights  in the Department of Education, the number of staff who were fired.

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her remarks.

I will say that I am uniquely positioned to speak about some of the  things that were brought up about what happened to children before IDEA  was passed.

Before becoming a teacher, and, actually, while I was a teacher, I  worked at the Southbury Training School in Connecticut, which is a  facility, an institution, that was established in the 1930s for  children with developmental and mental disabilities.

Many of those people, who are now adults, became institutionalized  because they were placed in this facility. With their disabilities, had  a law like this been in place, they could have been able to thrive and  live in their community, but we put them behind walls in institutions.  We can never go back to a time when that happens again.

I thank Ms. Moore for joining us tonight.

Mr. KENNEDY of New York. Mr. Speaker, first of all, let me thank  Representative Hayes for her leadership in hosting this Special Order  hour.

This past November, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, an incredible milestone  that serves as a reminder of the promise we make to our Nation's  children that every student, no matter who they are or how they learn,  deserves equal access to a quality education.

Yet, this anniversary comes at a time when the Trump administration  continues its systematic efforts to eliminate the Department of  Education, gut the Office of Special Education Programs, and undermine  IDEA, a landmark law that fundamentally changed how we educate children  with disabilities.

Since 1975, IDEA has provided immeasurable support to children with  disabilities, particularly for those in their earliest and most  formative years. IDEA part C, a Federal program closely intertwined the  Medicaid, provides early intervention from birth to age 3, oftentimes  the difference between a child meeting developmental milestones or  falling behind.

These Federal dollars change millions of lives across the country  every single year. However, Trump and congressional Republicans have  told American families that these investments don't matter, that their  child's future does not count, and that Federal dollars are better  spent elsewhere.

I am here to remind the American people that the President's  shameless assault on early intervention and Medicaid paints a grim  picture for the future of special education and for the future of  millions of children.

As an occupational therapist myself, I have worked with children with  developmental disabilities in their earliest years, and I have seen  what happens when we make good on our promise to invest in special  education and early intervention. Early intervention care alters the  course of a child's life for the better, dramatically improves health  and educational outcomes, and gives working families the support they  desperately need.

Republicans in this body need to remember the sacred promise made to  children with disabilities 50 years ago and stand by it rather than  turn a blind eye. Democrats will not sit idly by as this administration  jeopardizes our children's futures and undermines the fundamental right  to an education.

These aren't budget cuts. These are broken promises to children with  disabilities. We cannot build a stronger nation by cutting off critical  support for those who need it most. We must fully fund and support the  essential mission and fulfill the commitment of the Individuals with  Disabilities Education Act.

Mrs. HAYES.  Tlaib), who is a champion for children.

Mrs. HAYES.  Simon), to speak on this very important issue.

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from California and  again thank her for cosponsoring that piece of legislation with me. I  understand that if a child can't see the board, they can't learn. Her  enthusiasm when I brought it to her is exactly why we need people from  diverse perspectives in this Chamber.

I now yield to the gentlewoman from Hawaii (Ms. Tokuda). I thank her  so much for the work that she does on behalf of children in her home  State.

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentlewoman from New  Mexico (Ms. Stansbury), a fearless advocate for children and her  constituents.

Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from New Mexico and  all my colleagues who showed up tonight. I really thought I would be  standing here for an hour reading emails from my constituents and  telling the stories of the hundreds of students with disabilities that  I have taught in my classroom, telling the stories of how we met them  where they were and made accommodations so that they could thrive and  really learn.

I can't express to you what it feels like as a teacher when you have  a student who is struggling or has a disability and you see the moment  where they get it, the moment where the lesson breaks through and they  are receiving the information in the same way as the other students in  the classroom.

I want to make sure that those students can continue to be educated  alongside their nondisabled peers and not put in a basement or behind a  wall at an institution. I also want to make sure that even if a child  doesn't have a strong parent advocate or a strong family at home that  they, too, will have people in their public schools fighting for them,  that they, too, will still have the services that they need and  deserve.

The Secretary of Education has often said that her final mission is  to close the Department. I would like to put her and everyone else on  notice that I, too, am on a mission, on a mission to make sure that not  only the kids that were in my classroom and in my State of Connecticut,  but kids all across the country know that they have the right to a  high-quality public education, know that it is our responsibility to  make sure that they thrive and are prepared for life and being self- sufficient.

Again, I thank all of my colleagues for showing up tonight, and I  will continue to fight not only for these children and these families,  but for all of the educators who stand in front of them and pour their  heart out so that they can meet their needs.