Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Do No Harm in Medicaid Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protect Children's Innocence Act; and Relating to Consideration of H.R. Standardizing Permitting and Expediting Economic Development Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698301/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-do-no-harm-in-medicaid-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protect-childrens-innocence-act-and-relating-to-consideration-of-hr-standardizing-permitting-and-expediting-economic-development-act


Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, I rise to defeat the previous question and  bring up H.R. 6074, which provides for a clean 3-year extension of the  Affordable Care Act enhanced tax credits.

Congress has 3 legislative days left to extend the ACA tax credits,  or they will expire at the end of the year. The impact of the tax  credits expiring is devastating. Expiration of the tax credits will  result in health premiums increasing by an average of 114 percent for  individuals who rely on the marketplace, forcing 4.2 million people to  lose their health insurance.

I hear the fear in the voices of my constituents, Republicans and  Democrats, and Americans across the country who talk about healthcare  and the looming crisis. Small business owners, independent contractors,  retirees, farmers, and constituents in my district continue to call my  office or stop me to share how they will be unable to afford healthcare  as they continue to experience rising costs for essentials like  groceries, insurance, utilities, and housing.

If Republicans can find a way to provide tax cuts for billionaires,  Congress can find a way to provide relief for individuals to access  healthcare. As I have said, we are under the pressure of time. We have  a discharge petition, but that will take 7 days for a ripening through  the House procedures. What we can do today is vote to defeat this  previous question.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the four Republicans who have joined us, but  time is of the essence. They need to go one step further and vote to  defeat the previous question, alongside Democrats, so that we can have  a vote today in this House before we go on break.

Congress must protect healthcare and lower the costs for all  Americans by extending the ACA tax credits.

As my colleague, Mr. McGovern, said, this isn't about Democrats. This  is all of our constituents who benefit from the Affordable Care Act.  This is all of our constituents who face rising deductibles and  premiums. This is all of our constituents who fear that they will lose  their healthcare. No reasonable proposal has been introduced. This is  what we have today.

Help us defeat the previous question.