Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In Freezers''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator-freezers''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Defending Education Transparency and Ending Rogue Regimes Engaging in Nefarious Transactions Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689051/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-walk-in-coolers-and-walk-in-freezers-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-office-of-energy-efficiency-and-renewable-energy-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-commercial-refrigerators-freezers-and-refrigerator-freezers-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-defending-education-transparency-and-ending-rogue-regimes-engaging-in-nefarious-transactions-act


Mrs. HAYES. Mr. Speaker, last week, the President of the United  States signed an executive order to dismantle the Department of  Education.

Instead of reaffirming the integrity of the Department of Education  or pursuing real plans to explain to parents how services will  continue, House Republicans are again fixated on appliances. Today, we  are debating eliminating two cost-saving energy regulations and  legislation that could hinder research at institutions of higher  education.

It is important to understand what calls for the closure of the  Department of Education would mean to local communities.

The Department of Education is responsible for protecting the civil  rights of students, exactly what this DETERRENT Act would do. The  Department of Education would handle the enforcement. The Department of  Education supports students from low-income backgrounds. They develop  and prepare educators. They provide resources for English language  learners. They collect statistics on enrollment, staffing, and crime in  schools and manage the $1.6 trillion Federal student aid program.

Parents are concerned about disruptions to programs and services that  ensure that the 7.5 million children with disabilities and the 49  million students enrolled in K-12 public education will still get the  education they deserve.

My legislation, the Department of Education Protection Act, would  shield the Department from efforts to dismantle the agency and ensure  that every student receives the free and appropriate public education  that is mandated by law.

My legislation would prohibit the use of appropriated funds to  decentralize, reduce staffing levels, or alter the responsibilities,  structure, authority, or functionality of the Department.

The Trump administration has not developed or articulated a clear  plan to how these programs would continue their functions without  disruption. They keep saying they will return it back to the States.  What has been taken from the States, and what are the next steps moving  forward?

We need the Department of Education to enforce Federal law and  protect the civil rights of students across the country.

I thank the nearly 100 Members of Congress who have already  cosponsored my legislation, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on  the previous question so we can bring up my bill, the Department of  Education Protection Act.