Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BURR. Mr. President, in my 25 years representing North Carolina  in Congress, I have cast thousands of votes, each with its own  significance. The ones that weigh most heavily are those that send our  men and women in uniform into armed conflict. Those are the votes I  spend the most time debating before casting--first and foremost because  of the human cost involved but secondly because they hold the power to  irrevocably set the course of American history. 

  With similar consideration, I have taken a sober and deliberate  approach to the impeachment proceedings of the last few weeks,  conscious of my constitutional responsibility to serve as an impartial  juror. 

  As the investigative body, the House has charged President Trump with  abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. The Senate's role is to  determine whether the House has proven its case beyond a reasonable  doubt and whether, if true, these charges rise to the level of removing  the President from office. 

  After listening to more than 70 hours of arguments from the House  managers and the President's counsel, I have concluded that the House  has not provided the Senate with a compelling reason for taking the  unprecedented and destabilizing step of removing the President from  office. 

  In my role as chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I have  visited countries all over the world. What separates the United States  from every other nation on Earth is our predictable, peaceful  transitions of power. Every 4 years, Americans cast their ballots with  the confidence their vote will be counted and the knowledge that both  winners and losers will abide by the results. 

  To remove a U.S. President from office, for the first time in  history, on anything less than overwhelming evidence of ``Treason,  Bribery, or High Crimes and Misdemeanors'' would effectively overturn  the will of the American people. 

  As the Speaker said last year, ``Impeachment is so divisive to the  country that unless there's something so compelling and overwhelming  and bipartisan, I don't think we should go down that path, because it  divides the country.'' 

  I believe the Speaker was correct in her assessment. A year later,  however, the House went down that exact path, choosing to conduct a  highly partisan impeachment inquiry, with underwhelming evidence, in a  deeply flawed process. 

  The House had ample opportunity to pursue the answers to its inquiry  in order to prove their case beyond a reasonable doubt. They chose not  to do so. Instead, investigators followed an arbitrary, self-imposed  timeline dictated by political, rather than substantive, concerns. 

  For example, the House did not attempt to compel certain witnesses to  testify because doing so would have meant confronting issues of  executive privilege and immunity. They argued navigating executive  privilege--something every administration lays claim to--may have  caused some level of delays and involved the courts. 

  At the time, the House justified their decision by claiming the issue  was too important, too urgent, for any delays. Yet, after the House  voted on the Articles of Impeachment, the Speaker waited 4 full weeks  before transmitting the articles to the Senate. Those were weeks the  House could have spent furthering its inquiry, had it not rushed the  process. Instead, without a hint of irony, House leadership attempted  to use that time to pressure the Senate into gathering the very witness  testimony their own investigators chose not to pursue. 

  Additionally, in drafting the Articles of Impeachment, the House  stated President Trump committed ``Criminal bribery and honest services  wire fraud,'' two crimes that carry penalties under our Criminal Code.  Inexplicably, the House chose not to include those alleged criminal  misdeeds in the articles sent to the Senate, much less argue them in  front of this body. 

  At every turn, it appears the House made decisions not based on the  pursuit of justice but on politics. When due process threatened to slow  down the march forward, they took shortcuts. When evidence was too  complicated to obtain or an accusation did not carry weight, the House  created new, flimsy standards on the fly, hoping public pressure would  sway Senate jurors in lieu of facts. 

  The Founding Fathers who crafted our modern impeachment mechanism  predicted this moment, and warned against a solely partisan and  politically motivated process. 

  In Federalist 65, Alexander Hamilton wrote, ``In many cases  [impeachment] will connect itself with the pre-existing factions, and  will enlist all their animosities, partialities, influence, and  interest on one side or on the other; and in such cases there will  always be the greatest danger that the decision will be regulated more  by the comparative strength of parties, than by the real demonstrations  of innocence or guilt.'' 

  Hamilton believed impeachment was a necessary tool but one to be used  when the evidence of wrongdoing was so overwhelming, it elevated the  process above partiality and partisanship. The House has failed to meet  that standard. 

  The Founders also warned against using impeachment as recourse for  management or policy disagreements with the President. 

  Prior to America's founding, impeachment had been used for centuries  in England as a measure to reprimand crown-appointed officials and  landed gentry. At the time, it included the vague charge of  ``maladministration,'' as well. 

  During the Constitutional Convention in 1787, George Mason moved to  add ``maladministration'' to the U.S. Constitution's list of  impeachable offenses, asking: ``Why is the provision restrained to  Treason & bribery only? Treason as defined in the Constitution will not  reach many great and dangerous offences. Attempts to subvert the  Constitution may not be Treason as above defined.'' 

  I submit for this body James Madison's response: ``So vague a term  will be equivalent to a tenure during the pleasure of the Senate.'' 

  Madison knew that impeachment based purely on disagreements about  governance would turn the U.S. Congress into a parliamentary body, akin  to those tumultuous coalitions in Europe, which could recall a  President on little more than a whim. To do so would subordinate the  Executive to the Congress, rather than delineating its role as a  coequal branch of our Federal Government. And with political winds  changing as frequently then as they do now, he saw that every President  could theoretically be thus impeached on fractious and uncertain terms. 

  In a functioning democracy, the President cannot serve at ``the  pleasure of Senate.'' He must serve at the pleasure of the people. 

  Gouverneur Morris supported Madison's argument, adding at the time:  ``An election every four years will prevent maladministration.'' 

  Thus ``maladministration'' was not made an impeachable offense in  America, expressly because we have the recourse of free and fair  elections. 

  I bring up this story for two reasons. First, the Founder's decision  signals to me they felt strongly that an impeachable offense must be a  crime akin to treason, bribery, or an act equally serious, as defined  in the Criminal Code. Second, this story tells me the Founders believed  anything that does not meet the Constitutional threshold should be  navigated through the electoral process. 

  By that standard, I do not believe the Articles of Impeachment  presented to the Senate rise to the level of removal from office, nor  do I believe House managers succeeded in making the case incumbent upon  them to prove. Given the weak underpinnings of the articles themselves  and the House's partisan process, it would be an error to remove the  President mere months before a national election; therefore, I have  concluded I will vote to acquit President Donald J. Trump on both  articles of impeachment. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT