Remembering Tom Coburn


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BURR. Madam President, I think divine intervention has played a  part here with this exchange and the comments of my colleagues because  I am here to pay tribute to my good friend Tom Coburn, who, on March  28, passed away--our colleague and, more importantly, a dear friend. I  almost sat in the cloakroom and then came out here, thinking this could  be a conversation that Dr. Coburn could be having on the Senate floor  about the need to accomplish things, to think outside the box. Yet, as  my good friend from Illinois said, don't destroy the gold standard that  is there; find a way to work within it. Dr. Coburn had a lifetime of  doing that. 

  To pay tribute to a friend and a colleague, I actually have to rewind  26 years, when both Tom Coburn and I came to the House of  Representatives in a large class. It was alphabetical, so you can see  how ``B'' and ``C'' would be close and how Chambliss would be a friend  and Latham. We were a cadre of folks who really sized up very quickly  whom it could trust. 

  To understand Tom Coburn is to understand that this was a guy with an  incredibly diverse background in that he ran a medical device company,  in that he was an OB/GYN, in that he experienced things in life and, in  my case, was a little bit older. To understand Tom Coburn is to  remember the commercial wherein the bull went into the china store, and  no matter which way it turned, it was always going to break something.  Tom believed that you had to break something to understand whether it  was important or whether it was just clutter. 

  I think, like every new Member of Congress, you come in with a belief  that you are going to change the world but have no idea how to do it,  and you find that people who have been there for their careers hold all  of the cards, and that is the knowledge of how that legislation was  crafted and why it was done. To understand Tom Coburn is to realize  that this didn't scare him. Tom knew a lot, and when he hit things he  didn't know, he sounded like he did; therefore, people were scared to  take him on. 

  As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, on which we both  served, Tom was incredibly instrumental in healthcare policy, in  medical device issues. Tom was a practicing OB/GYN when he got to the  House and then, later on, when he got to the Senate, and he never could  understand why he could not go back to Oklahoma on the weekends and  deliver babies. Now, this is a man who had delivered tens of thousands  of babies over his career in Oklahoma, but the way the Senate rules  are--they are so antiquated--you couldn't go home and keep up your  license to deliver babies because you could not earn money. Tom  challenged that when he was in the U.S. Senate. He challenged that  antiquated rule, and he lost. 

  So, as I sat and listened to this debate that was about healthcare, I  could only sit there and think about the argument that Tom Coburn had  made about this antiquated rule that what you came in with and  practiced in civilian life you had to throw overboard here. You could  no longer do it. Tom decided he would go back on the weekends and  deliver babies. Yet, rather than have them make payments to him, they  would make payments to nonprofit organizations in his hometown of  Tulsa, and they would make them commensurate as to what they could  afford. 

  So, for a guy who was perceived as the right of the right hard-liner,  Tom was probably one of the most compassionate individuals. He was one  of the individuals who understood the common person, because, in his  mind, he was one his entire life--one who was never privileged, who  earned everything he got, and who banked everything he learned.  Ultimately, at the end of his career, he used that for this  institution, for the American people, and for people around the world. 

  Early on, I remember Tom and my sitting down with John Dingell, the  former Democratic chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. John  Dingell, who was a great man and whom Tom and I both liked a lot,  either wrote every bill that came out of the Energy and Commerce  Committee or his dad did before him for, probably, 60 years. John had  an inherent advantage every time we argued legislation because he  either wrote it or his dad wrote it. He knew why he did it, and he knew  why they structured it the way they did. I think John recognized  something in Tom--that here was a guy who could bring fresh life to it. 

  At the time, I remember Chairman Dingell sitting us down and saying:  Guys, spend a year listening, not a year talking. 

  Well, that was easy for me to do because I didn't know a whole lot  when I got here, but that was the toughest thing Tom Coburn was ever  faced with was to be silent because he really came in and wanted to  change the world in short order. 

  When he got there, Tom said: I will only be here for 6 years. 

  He accomplished a tremendous amount. His imprint is felt by the  people in the House today. You might remember he was probably the  loudest voice for government waste--for the size of what we spent, for  how much we took from the American people, and for what bad stewards we  were of how we used it and spent it. I think Tom left with peace from  the House of Representatives because, for the first time in our  lifetimes, the budget was balanced. 

  None of us anticipated what would happen in 2000 and the effects of  9/11, and nobody was more shocked than I, in the same year I came from  the House to the Senate, to see Tom Coburn run as a Senate candidate  for the State of Oklahoma. Tom came in with the same belief that we  needed to change things and that we needed to do it quickly. Tom served  on the House Intelligence Committee. When he got to the U.S. Senate and  served on the Senate Intelligence Committee, Tom understood much better  the challenges with which we were faced. I will not say that his  approach changed but that Tom assessed what was possible and never went  for what was impossible. 

  There are Senators in this Chamber who haven't had the good fortune  to serve with a Tom Coburn, who haven't been influenced and educated by  some  of the things Tom Coburn impacted many of us with--those of us who  spent our entire careers with him. Yet the American people will feel  the benefits of Tom Coburn's education here, his imprint on this  institution. 

  James Lankford, the Senator from Oklahoma, picked up his ``Pig Book''  that he put out every year, which is a list of those insane  expenditures that Tom Coburn used to come up with on an annual basis to  make us all feel shameful about the appropriations process. Thank  goodness Tom Coburn did that because James Lankford still does it today  on an annual basis. 

  I probably can't point to anything more important than healthcare to  tell you how Tom's impact on this institution has been felt, and I  think it will be felt for years to come. Tom and I believed that there  was a different direction, not because we were smart but because the  one we were on didn't work 

  I remember sitting down with Dr. Coburn, and he said: We are going to  change the healthcare architecture. 

  I said: Tom, you have been doing this for a long time. What  architecture works? 

  He said: Well, we are going to have to try them all, and when we find  one that doesn't fail, we will know that one is right. 

  When he got to that point, without hesitation, Tom came to the Senate  floor and talked about the Patients' Choice Act over and over and over  again. In the 3 or 4 years since Tom has been gone from the  institution, the debate has shifted. In fact, where Tom Coburn was and  where he tried to tell our colleagues we needed to settle--in  empowering patients and bringing transparency to healthcare--is  something we struggle with today. 

  There was no bigger advocate for transparency in healthcare costs  than Tom Coburn, and when the administration tried to administer that  this year, hospitals went to court and won--meaning, they don't have to  publish pricing. To the average person, that makes no sense. For those  of us who had been on the frontline with Tom Coburn, finally, an  administration had done it only to see it overruled. Yet, even on the  day he died, it was one of the key things that Tom believed--that  transparency was absolutely essential in the healthcare process. 

  I can remember Tom was not new to cancer. I think he fought cancer  four or five times. One day, during his most recent battle, we were  coming up on the Christmas holiday, I remember, and I think he was in  his chemotherapy treatment. He was still in the U.S. Senate, and Tom  was exhausted at the time. In between votes, he would go to the  cloakroom and lie down on the couch. Everybody knew he didn't feel  well. When he would get up to vote, we would look at the pillow. It  looked like a cat had been on it as Tom's hair would stay on the  pillow. Now, he never lost it all, but we understood the challenges he  was going through in his own personal life that he never expressed with  any of his colleagues or friends. 

  I have never seen a person who battled as peacefully as did Tom  Coburn. His impact will be felt for generations to come, not just here  but by the kids he delivered in Oklahoma, who today are 2 and 3 and 4  and 5 years old--kids who will grow up reading about their hero from  Oklahoma. 

  Though Tom had a distinguished congressional career and will be  remembered for a lot of legislative victories, that is not Tom Coburn's  greatest claim to fame. I have never known an individual more devoted  to a wife than Tom Coburn was to Carolyn. She was a beauty queen. She  was when she was young, and she was, in Tom's eyes, on the day he died.  He loved her without question. Tom also loved his daughters. He was so  proud of their accomplishments. He and Carolyn worked to make sure they  finally moved so they had everybody close. I think Tom knew that the  wheel of luck was going to run out. Yet, you see, that is not the way  Tom looked at it. He wanted to spend every precious moment with his  wife, his kids, and his grandchildren. He wanted any impact and  impression he could make to be on that next generation of Coburns. 

  For all of the qualities in Tom Coburn that I could talk about, there  is not enough time to really praise him. It would take days, and it  would take many individuals to come up and do it. It is probably  impossible to say goodbye to a friend like Tom Coburn. To me, there is  no question that I came to trust and value everything that Tom stood  for. 

  The one thing about Tom Coburn that many people knew was that Tom had  this tremendous peace about himself. I think some might have thought it  was because Tom had had such a stellar background and had known so  much. The truth is, if you had sat and talked to Tom, you would have  found out the truth. Tom loved his Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't hide  it. When given the opportunity, he wanted to share that peace with  anybody who was willing to sit and listen. Tom was criticized for where  he lived because it was certainly religious in leaning, but that was  Tom's life. As much as he adored his wife and children and  grandchildren, he adored his Lord just as much.  

  My colleagues were blessed to have Tom Coburn's influence on this  institution. Not everybody in America understands how blessed they are  to have had his influence on the policies and the way future  generations will be impacted by Tom Coburn for all of his works. Today  Tom may be in Heaven--no, today Tom is in Heaven, and I would bet my  colleagues that he is giving them hell. He is up there trying to change  the architecture of the deck chairs. He is up trying to say: Why do we  do things this way and not that way? 

  One of the things that used to bug Tom about this institution is he  couldn't figure out why we had telephones in the U.S. Senate that  looked as though they were created in 1950. You might remember, about 5  or 6 years ago, the Senate got new phones. They still will not redial  from the last number you called, and they still look like they are from  the Soviet era of the 1950s, but that is the way the U.S. Senate is,  and that is what Tom was trying to change. In many aspects he may not  have changed the telephone, but he changed the institution. He changed  the way we look at it. 

  Although he may be challenging the rules in Heaven today, make no  mistake about him, he is still preaching the Word and he has always  believed that Word. For all of the things Tom Coburn tried to  accomplish, he did it in a way that his Lord would have been proud of  him. 

  My colleagues, I know others will pay tribute to Tom Coburn's work  here. I am here today to pay tribute to Tom Coburn's life, not just the  impact he had on this institution or the Congress of the United States  as a whole but the example he set for all of us that life doesn't have  to be fair. But we as individuals have to be committed, and Tom Coburn  was committed to everything in life that he did. I am sure today Tom  continues to preach commitment to those who will listen. 

  With that, I honor his passing, and I say this to him in the spirit  that it is meant. Several days after we got word that he had passed, I  said to my wife: With COVID-19 and Congress dislocated, what would Tom  Coburn have done? She looked at me and she said: He would have grown a  beard. 

  We all remember those days when, all of a sudden, he would show up,  and the beard was grown, and he would say: Until this is over, I am not  going to shave. And that day I decided not to shave. 

  I was going to give this tribute to Tom Coburn last week. The events  of last week didn't permit me to come do that tribute, and I couldn't  make it through this week until I got home and shaved because it was  the most aggravating thing that I have ever had, and I understood why  in 64 years I hadn't grown any facial hair. I proved that I could do it  because I was honoring my friend. 

  I hope that others in this institution will look on Tom Coburn's  contributions in the same way I do, as a very special exposure that we  all had. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT