Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 6172


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BURR.  He has shown more interest in this bill today than  he has ever in the history of tools that keep us safe. 

  I remember Paul Harvey on the radio. He always came on and said:  ``Now, for the rest of the story.'' 

  Senator Lee has never supported this bill, never supported giving any  of these authorities to law enforcement. And let me explain what they  are--roving wiretap and lone wolf. Lone wolf is that individual out  there who pops up, whom we can find, who is not tied to an  international terrorist group but is homegrown. On wiretapping, we are  going to take roving wiretaps away from the Federal Bureau of  Investigation, and we are going to take it away for terrorism. But  since 1960, they have had roving wiretaps for organized crime--think  about that--and then business records and their access to business  records to find those clues that we need to keep America safe. 

  Senator Lee talked about us holding hostage. No, we are not holding  anybody hostage. He is holding the bill hostage to get amendments, some  of which shouldn't even be considered under the reauthorization of  section 215. They are FISA reforms being taken up by the Senate  Judiciary Committee. 

  That bill that came over from the House--the one supported by Pelosi,  Schiff, and Nadler--is actually a bipartisan bill that 63 percent of  the Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives have supported. It  is Leader McCarthy. I will not go down the list of them. But it is easy  to make this out as the boogeyman. 

  But to my colleagues, we don't play national security risk, boogeyman  games against the American people. We err on the side of providing as  many tools as we possibly can to make sure that our oath to keep  America safe is as robust as it possibly can be. 

  Now, why do we need to do this? It is because we need to provide law  enforcement the certainty of knowing that they can continue to use  these tools. If not, we are going to have cases that they are working  on today where they have to stop at midstream and start over at some  point later on. The question is, Will they be able to, or will they  have lost the coverage they need on a certain individual? 

  Now, what happens if they are gone? Well, we have been there. This is  the result of trying to create guardrails that these agencies operated  in. The President, under 12333 authority, can do all of this without  Congress's permission, with no guardrails, with no ability to go in and  say: Stay within this. 

  That authority exists. 

  The thing that I hear the most is that we want the ability for an  amicus to go in and represent somebody in front of this foreign  intelligence court. Well, let me tell you something that you are never  going to be told. The court itself has the authority, today, to assign  an amicus to any case that comes before the court. And what better  judge is there to make a determination as to whether an individual on  whom there is an application on for FISA coverage than the court itself  to determine: Is this a person, an individual, who needs to be  represented by a third party? No, it is not good enough to let the  courts do it; they want to make sure that everybody does it. And when  everybody does it, we slow down a process because that is what they are  there for. We slow down a process that is there trying to be ahead of  the security risk that might have been prevented. 

  Personally, I am ready for a big debate. We are going to have it next  week, and we can have a debate on every one of the amendments of  Senator Lee and the list of people he gave, and I think that they will  be struck down. But I am not going to have a 45-day extension. I will  let us go dark. I will let us go dark, and if there is a need, the  President, by Executive order, can do it for whatever period people  think they are willing to let it expire. 

  I will make every attempt to try to get this process of reviewing  FISA--not 215--in the Judiciary Committee, where it should come out of,  where the folks on the Judiciary Committee, who are experts on the  interactions with the court, have an opportunity to have input. 

  These amendments may never come out of the Judiciary Committee. They  may never come out. Yet they want to expedite them and bring them right  to the floor on a bill that is not necessarily appropriate to put them  on. 

  Why? It is because they know by themselves they will never become  law. They will have a tough time. So they will hold up those tools that  we use for national security in an effort to try to get some changes. 

  Well, I am holding the changes. This is not a straight  reauthorization. This is a bill that has very carefully been crafted by  the Attorney General, the Speaker of the House, and the minority leader  of the House. Sixty-three percent of the Republicans and not as many a  percentage of the Democrats supported it. I think it was 270-some votes  out of the House of Representatives. 

  Truthfully, by unanimous consent today the Senate should approve what  they passed, but we will not because somebody wants to demand all of  these amendments. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT