National Coal Council Reestablishment Act


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 707, I call up  the bill (H.R. 3015) to reestablish the National Coal Council in the  Department of Energy to provide advice and recommendations to the  Secretary of Energy on matters related to coal and the coal industry,  and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the  House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  3015.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the National Coal Council  Reestablishment Act, introduced by my colleague from Ohio's Sixth  District (Mr. Rulli).

This legislation would codify the National Coal Council, an important  advisory committee that had aided our Federal Government for 37 years  with expertise and technical reports on all matters affecting the coal  industry and its workers.

The reestablishment of the National Coal Council couldn't come at a  better time. It is no secret that our energy demands are rising. If the  demand isn't met with sufficient supply, we risk ceding leadership in  the next-generation economy to China, while raising costs on American  households along the way.

We are seeing the demand for reliable electricity affect nearly every  industry. At the end of the day, electricity policy is technology  policy, and electricity policy is manufacturing policy.

There is one source of reliable electricity that has been powering  American industry for many years. Coal-powered generation is a key  baseload resource that even today can protect against upward price  pressures and provide the right type of energy to fuel American  innovation and the next-generation industries.

Unfortunately, the previous administration sought to deliberately  undermine the financial viability of coal while subsidizing preferred  sources like wind, solar, and batteries.

Instead of regulating one industry and subsidizing another to make it  competitive, we need to get back to making things affordable in the  first place.

The National Coal Council plays a critical role in developing a  cohesive national energy strategy that will unleash American energy  dominance to lower costs for hardworking households.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3015, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, we are absolutely concerned about families making ends  meet through cheaper electricity. There are also hardworking families  in my Commonwealth of Kentucky who work in the coal industry and have  been really hurt by the policies that came out of the prior  administration.

This has been reinstated by the Trump Presidency. This ensures a  future President can't again undo what we experienced in the last 4  years. That is the difference in where we are. That is why it is  important that we are doing it.

He is a new member of the  Committee on Energy and Commerce, and I am proud to have him on the  committee.

Mr. Speaker, I just want to say that over the next decade, we are  going to  need 152 gigawatts of power. A gigawatt of power is about what is  needed to power the city of Seattle, so 152 Seattles over the next  decade is what is estimated.

We are also slated to close 112 gigawatts of power, so we need 152  gigawatts of power in the next decade. It takes years to get any  project approved. Hopefully we can speed that up through permitting  reform that hopefully we all can work on. However, when you need that  much power and you have existing power, then why take it offline?

My understanding--I have had a couple of people bring this coal plant  up that was just mentioned--is that the grid needed it for the summer  because they were afraid they were not going to have enough power to  get through the summer. It wasn't just that the Federal Government  forced them to keep it open. The Federal Government allowed them to  keep it open.

The first thing we can do to help our fight against China--that is  what it is all about. We know either we have the scaling data centers  here, or China is going to dominate. That is the only choice.

Europe can't do it. We know what happens if you overregulate and  don't produce the energy. That is a good example right there from  Europe.

We know we need the power or we are going to lose the great battle of  our time of who is going to control AI and supercomputing, eventually  quantum computing.

The very first thing we can do to really bridge that power gap is not  take power offline. I think it is reasonable to do. I think it is the  right thing to do, and I think that it is absolutely what we should do.

Hageman).

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Congressman Rulli, for sponsoring  this legislation. It is important. We don't want this to be  unestablished. I know it is getting reestablished.

The reason President Trump is having to reestablish it and it is  coming soon is because it got unestablished. That is what we are trying  to prevent in the future.

Mr. Speaker, I wish the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. McGarvey), my  friend and colleague, were still here because I would thank the  gentleman for the kind words. He is a good friend with kind words.

I will say that I wish that he were in here just a couple of years  ago when he said we haven't spent 1 minute or any time helping the coal  miners. There are more retired union coal miners in Kentucky and the  surrounding areas than there are current coal miners. Their entire  pension system and their healthcare system were based on a time when  there were always new people coming in and fewer people going out.

It is upside down now. If my friend had been here, he would have seen  in the Longworth Cafeteria or the Rayburn Cafeteria, day in and day  out, people with their coal hats on, their miner hats on, their shirts,  and a lot of them from Kentucky saying, what am I going to do? This is  something I had depended on.

I will tell you, we all worked on it. I will have to say that his  constituent, our colleague on the other side of the bill and the leader  at the time, Leader McConnell, took that as his issue. I will tell you,  if you ask any coal miner, retired coal miner in Kentucky with a  pension, a union benefit, retired union benefit, they will tell you who  spent time on that issue, who was the leader on that issue.

Leader McConnell used to go around Kentucky when he was campaigning  and say things like, Kentucky punches above its weight, and we  absolutely did on that. He threw the right punch on that.

Our retired union coal miners have the benefits they have today  because in an omnibus or spending bill--I can't remember, probably both  together--he put in a provision that preserved their benefits.

When you say we hadn't spent a minute on it, maybe he is talking  about right now, but I can tell you we have here in this Congress, the  leader absolutely did, and I commend him for that.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.