Promises Made, Promises Kept


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Nearly 2 months ago, Republicans in Congress worked alongside  President Trump to deliver on our promises and pass the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act is a historic win for our country,  unleashing American energy, promoting innovation, protecting our  Federal healthcare programs for our most vulnerable citizens, and  delivering historic tax cuts for families.

As chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, one of my  top priorities is ensuring that America has the energy needed to win  the race for AI against China and power our future.

I am proud to report that the One Big Beautiful Bill Act unleashes  American energy dominance through strategic investments and eliminating  wasteful subsidies. Our bill begins to refill our dangerously low  Strategic Petroleum Reserve and creates new investments to generate  reliable energy that will secure our grid and power AI.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act also spurs technological innovation by  renewing American wireless leadership through spectrum auction  authority that protects national security and generates $85 billion of  new revenue for the Federal Government.

For months, there has been a campaign of fear-mongering and  misinformation about the bill's impact on our most vulnerable. For  Americans who rely on Medicaid, the truth is that the One Big Beautiful  Bill Act restores integrity back into our Federal healthcare programs  by ensuring that ineligible recipients do not cut the line in front of  those in most need. In fact, since its passage, we have already seen  countless examples of waste, fraud, and abuse in our government-run  healthcare programs.

Just last week, the Congressional Budget Office found that the One  Big Beautiful Bill Act removes 2.1 billion ineligible individuals from  the ACA marketplace coverage, with 1.2 million of those being  unauthorized immigrants or noncitizens.

CBO also found that 5.3 million able-bodied, unemployed adults  covered by Medicaid will now have to work in order to continue  receiving their fully subsidized healthcare. The vast majority of  Americans agree that Medicaid should be a safety net, not a long-term  entitlement for those who are able to work but choose not to.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act strengthens and secures Medicaid for  expectant mothers, children, low-income seniors, and people with  disabilities.

Without passing the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, the average family in  my district would have faced a 25 percent tax increase next year. Our  bill prevented that tax hike by making permanent the 2017 Trump tax  cuts and built upon it.

Let's talk about individuals. The individual who lives on their  Social Security will have more money in their pocket because they won't  have to pay taxes on that--we exempt taxes--or the waitress in Glasgow,  Kentucky, who won't have to pay taxes on her tips; or the farmers in  Owensboro who will be able to pass their family land down to their  family because of the death tax exemption that we made permanent.

We also talked to individuals who have family members in nursing  homes, and we know that we strengthened the nursing homes that came to  us because they were threatened by some of the Biden rules that we shut  down, and people need access when they have loved ones who are in need.

These tax cuts aren't talk. These efforts aren't talk. They will grow  our economy. Our legislation provides much-needed tax cuts for working  families, unleashes American energy, supports innovation, and  safeguards healthcare for Americans who need it most.

I was glad to see this bill signed into law, and I am glad it had a  positive effect on the people who I represent.