Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Chairman Griffith, for  yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, this rule is an example of unsubstantiated bureaucratic  overreach that does not have any added impact to public health benefits  and actually goes so far as to have a negative environmental impact.

The Biden-Harris EPA finalized a rule targeting American tire  manufacturers that runs the risk of destroying domestic tire production  and eliminating thousands of good-paying American jobs.

When finalizing the rule, the EPA stated the goal was to reduce  emissions from hazardous air pollutants. However, the rule also adds  emissions limitations for total hydrocarbons. These two pollutants are  not correlated.

In short, limiting hydrocarbons does not reduce emissions from  hazardous air pollutants.

Additionally, implementation of this rule requires facilities to use  regenerative thermal oxidizers. Use of RTOs will result in higher  carbon dioxide emissions, as they require significant energy inputs to  operate and maintain.

American tire manufacturers already comply with National Emission  Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, known as NESHAP, and are  operating well under the acceptable limitations. The manufacturers'  compliance has ensured that our communities are safe. On the other  hand, this rule all but ensures their demise.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle are concerned about why  we are bringing these issues up now. Due to the number of Biden-Harris  administration midnight regulations, we have no choice in Congress but  to address the onslaught of these policies before they destroy  businesses and make life more expensive for the American people.

Mr. Speaker, let us be pragmatic and use common sense in our  policymaking, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.J.  Res. 61.