Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator- Freezers''


Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 242, I call up  the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 75) providing for congressional  disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule  submitted by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy,  Department of Energy relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy  Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and  Refrigerator-Freezers'', and ask for its immediate consideration in the  House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  Res. 75.

Mr. GUTHRIE.

Mr. Speaker, as President Trump took office in January, the Biden- Harris Department of Energy finalized amended energy efficiency  standards for commercial refrigeration equipment.

H.J. Res. 75, introduced by Representative Goldman of Texas, a new  member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, repeals this final  rule.

New standards for this equipment, which included a variety of  products, became effective just 3 years ago. Yet the Biden  administration moved ahead with implementing burdensome new standards.

In fact, these standards will require energy reductions up to 60  percent on top of the previous standards, pushing the price of this  equipment higher than ever before. The Department of Energy itself  estimates the final rule will cost $8 billion. However, it  substantially underestimated compliance costs throughout the rulemaking  process.

The Department of Energy, despite feedback from stakeholders, did not  account for the significant ongoing capital investment manufacturers  must make to shift to new refrigerants.

When amending energy efficiency standards, the Department of Energy  must prove that new or amended standards are economically justified, as  well as technologically feasible, and that they result in significant  savings. Not only is it unclear if compliance with the DOE's final rule  is technically feasible but it is certainly clear that the rule is not  cost-effective.

For example, one popular refrigerator design covered by this rule,  vertically closed transparent commercial refrigerators, is estimated by  the Department of Energy to have a payback period of almost 94 years  under the amended standards. For retailers, many of which are small or  family-owned businesses, it makes no sense to purchase equipment that  will take nearly 100 years to recoup the cost on, especially when the  average lifetime of this product is 14 years.

This will result in less efficient equipment being used beyond its  recommended lifetime or a significant capital expenditure which will  have to be passed down to American families in the form of higher  prices. This is a lose-lose situation for small business owners and  clearly violates the letter of the law.

We must pass H.J. Res. 75 to repeal this midnight rule and provide  certainty to American manufacturers and small retailers.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Goldman) for his  leadership on this issue. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting  H.J. Res.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I have a letter here from the National  Automatic Merchandising Association--vending machines, as most of us  would know it--that it would be affecting their vending members. Most  are small businesses. Ninety-plus percent of their operators have  revenues of less than $10 million a year.

Mr. GUTHRIE.   It is difficult for small businesses to stay in business. I would say  if this equipment was going to do for small businesses what the  Department of Energy  and the other side is saying, they would buy them. They wouldn't have  to be told to buy them.

I have a letter from the National Association of Food Equipment  Manufacturers, which sells to restaurants and so forth. It says these  costs must be passed on to customers, many of which are small  businesses like restaurants, bars, retailers, hotels, grocers, and  schools. As the Department of Energy acknowledges in its own analysis,  the increased capital expense caused by these standards may take more  than--not many small businesses will invest their money if it is going  to take more than 10, 75, and up to 94 years. Most small businesses  don't stay in families more than a couple of generations. In many  instances, to match cost reductions achieved through higher efficiency  gains, more expensive equipment translates into higher costs for  consumers. This is simple economics. As the cost of inputs in doing  business increases, a restaurant's or grocer's prices also must  increase to make enough of a profit to stay in business.

The other argument you can make is that if you buy this, you are  going to be more efficient. The other side has said that then you can  make more profit. If that is the case, believe me, our small businesses  would be doing it without a government mandate.

Mr. Speaker, I will yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Indiana  (Mr. Baird), my friend.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, the Federal Register lists this class of  equipment, and the simple payback period in years is 93.9 for all  purchasers. I have it right here.

Mr. Speaker, as we have heard today, the Biden-Harris administration  DOE's final rule for commercial refrigeration equipment will have a  detrimental impact on small businesses and the consumers. If small  businesses thought this was going to benefit their businesses, I  guarantee you, Mr. Speaker, as a family business owner, we would invest  in it. We would not have to be mandated to invest in it.

This final rule does not even meet the statutory requirements laid  out in ECPA for new or amended energy efficiency standards. With a cost  of at least $8 billion, questions surrounding the  technological feasibility of the standards and serious food safety  concerns cloud this rulemaking.

Simply put, the DOE far exceeded the bounds of its authority with  this rule. If Congress does not act, this final regulation will harm  small businesses, drive up costs for American families, and put already  expensive equipment out of reach for many who need it for their  livelihoods.

That is why the following groups are supporting this CRA: The  National Association of Food Equipment Manufacturers; NATSO,  representing truck stops and travel centers; SIGMA, representing fuel  marketers; and National Automatic Merchandizing Association, which  includes vending machine operators.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this.

I just want to be clear. I don't have anything in my family business  in any of these businesses, but I will tell you what we look at is do  we get a return on investment and can we serve our customers better.

The list I just said, they looked at it and said that if they don't  get a return on their investment, then they can't serve their customers  better by this rule.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.J. Res. 75 to overturn  these unworkable energy standards for commercial refrigeration  equipment, and I yield back the balance of my time.