State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act


Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 936, I call  up the bill (H.R. 3628) to amend the Public Utility Regulatory Policies  Act of 1978 to add a standard related to State consideration of  reliable generation, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. GUTHRIE.  3628.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3628, the State Planning For  Reliability and Affordability Act, sponsored by my colleague  Congressman Evans from Colorado.

H.R. 3628 directs State public utility commissions to consider  implementing measures that would ensure utilities retain sufficient,  reliable generation through their integrated resource plans to maintain  the stability and affordability of their electric grids.

Over 35 States utilize resource plans to ensure their utilities are  appropriately planning their investments in the electric grid.

The U.S. grid, commonly referred to as the greatest machine on Earth,  is a complex system compromised of myriad components and infrastructure  to deliver electricity that powers our economy and enables modern life  for households.

To ensure the timely delivery of electricity at all times of the day,  utilities have historically undergone extensive planning processes to  methodically deploy ratepayer dollars to build requisite  infrastructure.

Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen States move away from an  integrated resource planning process centered on reliability and  affordability toward one intended to achieve climate and environmental  justice goals.

The central focus of utility planning must be on the end-use  ratepayers, keeping the lights on for households at an affordable  price. Unfortunately, the States that have taken the most aggressive  stance on climate goals are the same States with the highest  electricity rates in the country.

H.R. 3628 is fuel neutral and focused on attributes that are  essential to reliability and affordability, such as frequency and  voltage support. This legislation ensures that baseload and  dispatchable resources, such as natural gas, hydropower, coal, and  nuclear, are sufficiently considered as part of any 10-year plan.

There is a road for a diverse energy mix that includes renewables and  storage, but we know that not all electrons are the same.

This is the exact message that the Committee on Energy and Commerce  has heard in hearings with grid operators, utilities, engineers, and  those charged with protecting the reliability of our grid. In fact,  just last month, the head of the NERC called the current reliability  crisis a five-alarm fire.

The State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act prioritizes  the resources we need most. It will encourage States to take more  responsibility over their systems.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Ohio (Mr. Latta), my good friend and colleague on the Committee on  Energy and Commerce, the chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from  Colorado (Mr. Evans), a very important member of the Energy and  Commerce Committee.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared to close.

Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, first, I thank Congressman Evans for sponsoring the  State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act. Let's go back to  what this bill does.

H.R. 3628 directs State public utility commissions to consider  implementing measures that would ensure utilities retain sufficient  reliable generation through their integrated resource plan to maintain  the stability and affordability of their electric grids.

We have had a lot of discussion. We have been debating for the last  few months. The Affordable Care Act passed 15 years ago. Insurance  rates have doubled since that passed, and now, we are debating whether  to deal with the rising costs of health insurance or continue to  subsidize the rising costs. We want to deal with the underlying costs  of health insurance.

We are talking about the affordability of green energy or clean  energy. I am for all of the above, but if you remember what the  Secretary said, he said he is for the best of the above. There are  areas where the Sun shines and the Sun shines bright, and it shines  bright on my old Kentucky home. There are areas for that. There are  areas where solar makes sense, where wind makes sense, and where fossil  fuels make sense.

When he says best of the above, he doesn't mean we don't do all of  it. We do what fits in the right place at the cheapest price for our  citizens. When you talk about investing in your own utilities, if clean  energy--they keep saying they are going to go for more expensive energy  as opposed to the cleaner energy. That is what they say. I will say, I  think our energy companies want to go to the most affordable energy.  That is what they want to produce.

What this does, if you look at the map, and a lot of people have  looked at maps of energy prices, what are the highest cost electric  prices in the country? I know my friend from Colorado  pointed out to my other friend from Colorado that Colorado is up in the  grid with California, New Jersey, and New York. They have higher energy  prices, and it is because their general assemblies and their State  governments have put additional climate issues in place, not to make  energy more affordable, but it makes it more expensive. What we are  saying here is that State planning commissions have to ensure in their  plans that they look at affordability, reliability, and sustainability  within their grids.

That is what this piece of legislation does. I encourage my  colleagues to vote for it, and I yield back the balance of my time.