Hawaiian Language Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700306/hawaiian-language-month


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, this year marks the 250th anniversary of  America's founding, and this year should be a celebration of our Nation  and all those who have made it what it is. The story of our Nation is a  story of diversity, of people of different races, religions, and  national origins coming together to build something bigger than any one  of us.

That story should be told in its totality, but we have a regime that  fears diversity and is trying to erase it from our history. From  directing the National Park Service to remove aspects of American  history from exhibits, such as slavery, to targeting immigrant  communities across the country, to its all-out war on diversity and  inclusion, Trump's regime is attempting to rewrite history and create a  White America that never existed in the first place.

The Native peoples were here first. This country would not be what it  is today without the social, economic, and cultural contributions and  the many sacrifices of historically marginalized but important  communities.

As we celebrate 250 years of America, it is critical that we tell  their stories--stories that are central to the country and truly define  our communities. One such story is the revitalization of Native  languages, including the Hawaiian language.

Since 2023, February has been recognized by the State of Hawaii as  Mahina Olelo Hawaii, or Hawaiian Language Month. Following the  colonization of the Hawaiian Islands by English-speaking westerners,  the Hawaiian language, also known as Olelo Hawaii, was nearly driven to  extinction. After the illegal overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom in  1893, a law was enacted effectively barring the teaching of Olelo  Hawaii across the islands. As a result, the use of Olelo Hawaii sharply  declined, and the language came close to extinction.

Thankfully, cultural practitioners, educators, and community members  like Mary Kawena Pukui, author of the Hawaiian language dictionary,  kept the language alive until interest in learning Hawaiian increased  during the Hawaiian cultural renaissance in the 1970s.

In 1978, Olelo Hawaii was finally recognized as an official language  of the State of Hawaii--quite the contrast to President Trump's  Executive order designating English as the language of our country.

Olelo Hawaii has been reintroduced to the public education system,  and Hawaiian language immersion schools have been established  throughout the State to continue to revitalize and protect this  important aspect of Hawaiian culture.

The designation of February as Mahina Olelo Hawaii serves as a  testament to the resilience of the Native Hawaiian community and the  importance of Hawaiian history and culture.

Indigenous languages are an important part of our country's history  and fabric. A curriculum similar to what is used in our Hawaiian  immersion schools has also been used by other indigenous groups to  foster and revive their languages. In 2016, for example, a group of  Hawaii educators from our Aha Punana Leo immersion schools in Hawaii  traveled to the Midwest and mentored a language institute of the Ojibwe  Tribe. There, the group shared their methodology and curricula to  support the institute's program and help preserve the Ojibwe language.

I am really proud that the resurgence of Native Hawaiian language is  used as an example for other Native groups to learn how they can use  similar programs to preserve their very special Native languages.  Celebrating the survival and revitalization of these indigenous  languages helps to preserve and strengthen the cultural diversity of  our communities because, while much has changed since the founding of  our Nation, the through line of America has always been our diversity.

So Trump and Republicans can continue to tell their cherry-picked  version of American history, but they cannot erase the truth of our  diversity.

As we celebrate our Nation's 250th anniversary, we reaffirm our  commitment to upholding and fostering that diversity, to protecting the  culture of communities that were here before us, and to ensuring the  stories of our country and the Americans who make it so great are told  in full.