Nomination of Linda McMahon


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I rise today deeply concerned about the  state of public education in our country.

Public education is foundational. It allows people to get ahead. As  simple as that, it is foundational.

I have spoken before on the floor about the power of public education  in my own life. As an immigrant from Japan, I arrived in this country  speaking no English.

I started off by trying to learn how to count from 1 to 10--very  humble beginnings. But it was the public education I received at  schools like Koko Head Elementary and Kaimuki High School that enabled  me, an immigrant from very humble beginnings, to learn English and to  go on to college, law school, and, ultimately, the U.S. Senate.

We should all agree on the importance of a strong public education  system for every student in our country. An educated citizenry helps  grow the middle class and drive economic success in red and blue States  alike.

Support for public schools should not be a partisan issue. There are  millions of kids who are attending public schools in every single State  in our country, so it shouldn't be a partisan issue. But just weeks  into the Trump administration, public education is under attack.  Already, chain saw-wielding Elon Musk--it is really hard to get rid of  that image because he takes such delight in wielding that chain saw and  willy-nilly cutting all kinds of government programs that we rely on.  But Elon Musk and his minions have started unilaterally canceling  contracts at the Department of Education without any transparency or  accountability whatsoever, and Donald Trump has made no secret of his  desire to eliminate the Department of Education entirely, as part of  his quest to cut government services we rely on to give trillions in  handouts to his billionaire buddies.

While only Congress has the power to eliminate the Department of  Education in its entirety, that is not stopping Trump from using every  means available to weaken Federal support for education. And as you  heard from my colleague just previously, there is a lot of support for  public education in our country. Why? Because most of the people in our  country have to go to public schools.

The person who will help him do this, meaning totally weaken our  public school system and eliminate the Department of Education, is  billionaire Linda McMahon. As Trump's Secretary of Education, she will  dismantle the Department of Education from the inside out.

President Trump told her that he wants her to ``put herself out of a  job'' by eliminating this Department. Since President Trump only  nominates people who are 100 percent loyal to him, we can expect Linda  McMahon will comply with putting herself out of a job, which leads us  to wonder why we are even giving her this job in the first place.

A nominee tasked to end the very Department that she is supposed to  be leading does not need to have much by way of experience in leading  or running such a Department, which is the case with Linda McMahon. In  her confirmation hearing, Mrs. McMahon could not name a single  requirement of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the main  Federal law that supports K through 12 education.

She couldn't say whether teaching African-American history courses  violated Trump's Executive order on radical indoctrination. Teaching  the history of our country is considered radical indoctrination by this  President. Think about that for a minute.

She couldn't even answer a simple yes-or-no question about whether  schools receiving taxpayer dollars should be allowed to discriminate  against children with disabilities.

Mrs. McMahon is totally unqualified to oversee the education of our  Nation's children, but Donald Trump doesn't care about that. Linda  McMahon will carry out President Trump's dangerous agenda to dismantle  the Department of Education, privatize the Nation's public schools, and  strip educational opportunities from millions of students across the  country.

In doing so, she will be 100-percent loyal to Donald Trump above all  else. She will execute the plans laid out in Project 2025 to eliminate  funding for title I schools, which support low-income students. We are  talking about funding for 49,000 title I schools throughout the  country, including 170 schools in my State of Hawaii, 2,091 title I  schools in Florida, 7,500 title I schools in Texas, and so many more.  Every single State has title I schools. There are 49,000 title I  schools throughout our country.

Project 2025, Trump's blueprint, will have the Secretary of Education  dismantle civil rights protections for students and weaponize the  Office of Civil Rights to advance Trump's hateful, far-right political  agenda. Then the Secretary will come after funding for programs that  help provide childcare, afterschool care, school meals, and more. Think  about it: school meals. For many children, that would mean taking away  access to the only meal a day they can count on.

Why? Not because she thinks these decisions will improve outcomes or  benefit students. No. These attacks on the Department of Education are  about one thing and one thing only: finding money to pay for massive  giveaways to billionaires like McMahon, Elon Musk, obviously the  President, and their ilk.

Republicans are robbing our children's futures to line the pockets of  their billionaire buddies, and they are robbing our country of future  doctors, innovators, leaders, and more.

A strong public education system is the foundation of a strong  democracy, a strong economy, and a strong middle class. That is why  Democrats are committed to strengthening our schools and ensuring every  child has the opportunity to get ahead, regardless of disability,  income, or background. That starts with our rejecting Linda McMahon's  troubling nomination to lead the Department of Education, a Department  that she is going to start dismantling and, indeed, working herself out  of a job.

On behalf of students, teachers, and families in Hawaii and all  across our country, I urge my colleagues to think about it and to  oppose this nomination.