Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696175/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-central-yukon-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, right now, Republicans control the White  House, the House, and the Senate. In other words, Republicans control  the  Federal Government. Since day one of the Trump regime, they have used  that control to sow chaos and attack programs and services that the  American people rely upon. Here are but two examples:

Earlier this year, Trump tried to shut down Social Security offices  across the country, making it much harder for recipients of Social  Security benefits to call Social Security, find out the information  they needed, and to access their benefits. So Social Security reversed  course on this I call it lamebrain idea to close some of the offices  when they responded to the huge hue and cry from people who said that  was not something that should be happening to Social Security  recipients.

Another example: This regime slashed the Department of Education,  firing more than half of the Education Department's staff, as part of  an all-out assault on the Federal support for public education in our  country. If President Trump had his way, he would just get rid of the  Federal Department of Education altogether, but since only Congress can  do that, they did things like firing half of the staff.

Now they are coming after programs millions of Americans rely on for  their healthcare. Republicans created this healthcare crisis when they  passed their ``Big Ugly Bill,'' which guts Medicare, Medicaid, and  SNAP, among other programs.

At the same time, Donald Trump zeroed out funding for research on  diseases such as cancer. And when we are talking about research on  children's cancer, to cut off funding for that kind of research is more  than mean. They also cut out funding for research on diabetes,  Alzheimer's, halting studies that could unlock major breakthroughs and  literally save lives.

Unsurprisingly, the majority of Americans oppose what this regime is  doing regarding healthcare. Republicans know their position is  indefensible, which is why they are resorting to lies and excuses--lies  that get more desperate by the day. They are lying because they don't  want the American people to know the truth.

What is that truth? The truth is that Republicans are happy to make  permanent massive tax cuts for billionaires in their ``Big Ugly Bill''  but refused--refused--to make permanent tax credits hard-working  families rely on to get their healthcare.

Misplaced priorities are nothing new for Republicans. I was in the  House when we passed the Affordable Care Act--the ACA--which expanded  healthcare to more than 20 million Americans who up to that point did  not even have healthcare. I was here in the Senate as Republicans tried  over and over again to repeal the ACA and kick those millions of  Americans off their healthcare.

It is rich that these same Republicans who crusaded for years to get  rid of the ACA now stand before the American people talking about how  much they care about their healthcare. Why should the American people  believe these lies as they are, even as we speak, getting notices of  huge increases in their healthcare costs? The American people don't  believe the Republican lies. They see right through them.

Meanwhile, Republicans, unwilling to do what the American people  want, now claim that, well, extending these credits isn't urgent, so we  can do this a few months from now. We don't have to do it now. There is  no sense of urgency.

Another lie.

Time is of the essence. Open enrollment under the ACA starts in just  a few weeks, and because of Republicans' refusal to act--I repeat-- people across the country are getting notices saying: Here is what your  ACA premiums are going to cost you.

The figures are astounding. Without an extension of these credits,  average out-of-pocket premium costs for a family of four in Hawaii are  expected to increase from $10,000 to more than $16,000 a year--an  increase of more than $6,000, or $500 a month.

Maybe in Trump's world, $500 isn't much, but to everybody else, that  is a lot. Billionaires may not care that millions of people in our  country are getting these notices about their increase in healthcare,  but the rest of us do. For so many families, these huge increases could  well break the bank.

Let's face it--this is not a red State or blue State issue. Hard- working Americans in every State across the country rely on the ACA for  healthcare coverage, and they are all about to see their costs  skyrocket.

In Speaker Johnson's home State of Louisiana, where nearly 300,000  people--his constituents--get their healthcare through the ACA, a  family of four in Louisiana can expect to see their premiums increase  by more than $9,000 a year.

In South Dakota, Senate Leader Thune's home State, out-of-pocket  costs for a family of four will increase by more than $13,000 a year.  Think about that. Without action, Leader Thune's constituents will be  paying $13,000 more than last year for the very same coverage and the  same benefits.

Nationwide, it is estimated that healthcare premiums will more than  double for hard-working families. Make no mistake, plenty of families  won't be able to afford these significant hikes and will be forced to  go without healthcare--all because Republicans refuse to act.

Working families are awakening to this healthcare crisis because--and  I repeat--they are getting their increase notices even as we speak. And  they know who is responsible. It is the Republicans, with their ``Big  Ugly Bill.''

Trump returned to office promising to lower costs on day one--yet  another lie. It is not happening. More than 250 days later, Americans  are facing the fallout from this regime's reckless economic policies,  including the disastrous tariffs that are decimating small businesses.

So instead of actually doing anything to lower costs for our hard- working families, the Republicans have shut down the government because  they really don't care that families have to pay so much more for  healthcare. Many of them--millions of them--are going to drop  healthcare because they will not be able to afford these increases.

Under the Trump regime, Americans are poorer because costs are not  going down, and they are about to get sicker when they no longer can  afford the healthcare that was provided through the ACA tax credits.

Democrats, on the other hand, know that the health and welfare and  well-being of the American people are worth fighting for and that  keeping the government running shouldn't come at the cost of Americans'  healthcare.

We talk about what I would call a completely stupid choice--not even  a choice. We should keep the government running, but if the Republicans  are so intent on giving permanent tax breaks to the billionaires, they  should give permanent tax credits to the millions of Americans who need  and deserve this healthcare.

Frankly, Republicans can end the government shutdown today if they  agree to restore healthcare to the American people. Until then,  Democrats are going to keep fighting to protect Americans' healthcare,  reopen the government, and hold this regime accountable for the harm  they are inflicting on this country every single day.