Scarper Ridge Golden Gate National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701293/scarper-ridge-golden-gate-national-recreation-area-boundary-adjustment-act


Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I would be happy to yield to my colleague  from New Hampshire Mrs. Shaheen if she would like to go before me.

Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, for 125 years, women have bravely served  in our Armed Forces, risking their lives to defend our country and to  protect our national security.

Today, more than 2 million--2 million--women veterans live in the  United States--women Trump has ignored. Basically, he has turned his  back on them by denying them access to abortion care and counseling.

Abortion care is critical care, often lifesaving healthcare, as noted  by my colleague just now. That is why, after the Supreme Court's  disastrous Dobbs decision, the VA responded by enabling women veterans  to access abortion counseling and care.

But last December, the VA, under different leadership and thinking  they could get away with it, quietly implemented a near-total abortion  ban at the VA even in cases of rape, incest, or when a pregnancy  endangers the veteran's life. It is not an exaggeration to call this  change in VA policy yet another front in Trump's war on women.

Over 450,000 of the women veterans of reproductive age who receive VA  care live in States with abortion bans or restrictions. Because of  Trump's extreme policy, these women are now out of options and with  nowhere to turn, in reality, for abortion care. These are veterans, as  I mentioned, who bravely risk their lives for our country, who have the  expectation that their country will take care of them when they return  to civilian life--not so under this regime. Instead, the Agency tasked  with ensuring the health of our veterans is willfully risking their  health and lives all because of its ideological agenda.

We owe it to our women veterans and all veterans to provide them with  the healthcare they need and earn, not to mention deserve. That is why  Senate Democrats have introduced legislation to overturn this life- threatening policy at the VA and restore access to the care our  veterans deserve.

Tonight, every Senator will go on the record to make clear whether  they care more about the well-being of our veterans or the political  cruelty of Donald Trump. As the regime attempts to score cheap  political points and place the lives of thousands of women at risk, I  urge my colleagues to join in restoring access to essential healthcare  for these veterans.

I want to add to the examples provided by my colleague Senator  Blumenthal. Our women veterans, in their service to our country, are  exposed to toxic fumes and other environmental and surface conditions  that require comprehensive healthcare. As I mentioned, they are exposed  to conditions that maybe in the normal course, other women who are not  in our services are exposed to. So our women veterans require  comprehensive healthcare, and that is what we are asking for. Of  course, that care includes abortion care.