Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low Nox Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Mr. OBERNOLTE. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman and my friend for  yielding. I rise as the proud sponsor of this bill, H.J. Res. 89, but  also as a proud Californian.

This bill would overturn the EPA's waiver granting California the  ability to decide for all Californians what cars they drive and what  trucks they use to deliver their goods.

This waiver was granted in the waning moments of the Biden  administration, and I believe it was shortsighted and misguided.

To be clear, I am not an opponent of electric vehicles, and I  consider myself an environmentalist, but I feel strongly that my  constituents ought to have the ability to buy for themselves the  vehicle that will best meet their needs. For some of them, that is an  electric vehicle. For some of my delivery companies, that is an  electric truck; but for some, it is not. I believe our country was  founded on the principles of freedom and liberty, and that means we are  empowered to choose for ourselves about those decisions and not have  our government make those decisions for us.

Make no mistake, it is entirely appropriate that we are taking this  action here today. Article I of the U.S. Constitution gives this body,  the United States Congress, the ability to regulate interstate  commerce. As everyone knows, these vehicles, cars and trucks, are not  just manufactured for one State, the State of California, they are  manufactured for a worldwide audience. It is very much interstate  commerce that is at stake here.

Also, let's be clear about this: If it were more efficient or less  expensive to deliver using zero-emissions trucks, these companies would  already be doing it, but the truth is it absolutely is not. It is more  expensive. By forcing this choice on California consumers, we will also  be forcing on them all of the concomitant increases in the prices of  the goods that they buy every day.

Let me remind you, California already has the worst poverty of any  State in the country. Madam Speaker, this waiver would have made it  even worse. That is why I think it is entirely appropriate for us to be  considering this action today.

Also consider how nonsensical it is for us to run a system of  interstate commerce where trucks deliver goods from State to State to  State. If we were to allow every single State in the country to  establish its own emission standards for those trucks, every one of  these goods would have to stop at every single State line and be  transshipped from one truck to another truck. Madam Speaker, that is  ridiculous, costly, inefficient, and unnecessary.

I believe this body is entirely appropriate in taking this action  today, and I strongly urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this  resolution, H.J. Res. 89, and the other Congressional Review Act  actions we are taking today.