Charlie Kirk


Ms. PETTERSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today following the horrific  events of last week in my community and the rise of political violence  nationally.

Last week I was sitting in my office in a meeting when the phone lit  up. Charlie Kirk had been shot at an event in Utah. Seconds later, my  phone lit up again. There was an active shooter at Evergreen High  School, which is not far away from my house.

Our schools are supposed to be our safest places, and, unfortunately,  that is far from a reality in the United States. What happened in  Evergreen High School is every parent's worst nightmare. I felt shocked  and horrified as I waited minute by minute not knowing how many lives  might be taken.

I couldn't help but think: What if that had been my kids' school?

My heart breaks for the two students who continue to fight for their  lives in the hospital, the parents who are at their bedside not knowing  if they will ever come home again, and for the kids and the educators  who will carry this trauma forever.

Throughout the day, as I went back and forth thinking about the two  tragedies, the one in Evergreen and the assassination of Charlie Kirk,  I couldn't stop thinking about his two kids who will have to grow up  not having their dad and his wife, Erika, who lost her husband and  partner.

Charlie Kirk was exercising one of the most foundational pieces of  our democracy: engaging in free speech and debating his political views  in a public space without being threatened or silenced, and he was  targeted because of this.

Before this assassination, in April, Governor Josh Shapiro's house  was set on fire, endangering his entire family. Just 2 months after  that, two Democratic lawmakers, Melissa Hortman and John Hoffman, were  gunned down in their homes. Tragically, Melissa died alongside her  husband, Mark.

Nobody should be killed for their views. This is not how we settle  our differences. I can't help but feel that we have lost our way as a  country.

The radicalization and easy access to firearms has been a lethal  combination that doesn't just impact one party, one State, or one  community. This impacts all of us, and any one of us and our families  or someone we love could be affected.

Donald Trump doesn't take this moment to unite us as a country.  Instead, he has chosen to fan the flames. He refuses to bring us  together to unequivocally denounce all of the political violence that  we have faced. Instead, he has weaponized this moment and this tragedy  to go after people who disagree with him.

Right now, so many of us are questioning who we are as a country and  wondering how we got here. I know that we are so much better than this,  and I have to have hope that our country can find its way again. We  must build the future that our kids deserve, where we are safe at  school, the movie theater, the grocery store, where we can go to a  political rally without worrying about getting shot, and where we can  disagree with the President and the political party in charge without  being targeted.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues, if they continue to reel from the  death of Charlie Kirk, the shooting in Evergreen, and the killing of  Melissa Hortman and her husband, are you going to stand by while  someone's father, someone's son, and someone simply exercising their  right as an American continue to get gunned down while our kids get  shot in classrooms?

We face a choice at this moment, and I personally ask you to join me  in actually doing something about it. Let's choose a future where we  keep guns out of the hands of people who are a danger to themselves or  others, working together on bipartisan solutions that are  overwhelmingly supported by both parties and by our voters in our  districts.

Let's choose a future where our kids come home safe from school and  where we don't continue to lose countless innocent lives.

When is it enough?