Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


Ms. PETTERSEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Massachusetts  for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the rule that will kill our  bipartisan effort to allow parents who have welcomed a new child to  vote remotely.

I thank Representative Luna for her unwavering commitment to giving  moms and dads a voice in Congress. A large majority of the Members of  the House support changing the way we do things here and making it more  accessible to young families and more reflective of the American  people.

Speaker Johnson pulled out all of the stops to prevent us from moving  forward. We followed the rules and filed a discharge petition. We got  the 218 signatures necessary to bring it to a vote  on the floor. Yet, he went to historic lengths to try to stifle our  voices, including blocking our resolution today before we even had the  opportunity to vote for it.

Even the President supports this and doesn't understand why it is so  controversial, and neither does the rest of America.

Let's be clear that the changes agreed upon by the Speaker are not a  win for us. They do not address the challenges that we have worked so  hard to overcome. The Speaker turned his back on moms and dads in  Congress and working families across the country.

Congress is stuck doing things the way that we did hundreds of years  ago, and it is time that we move it into the 21st century.

For all of the people who have said that I should resign because I  can't do my job, they are completely missing the point. I am absolutely  capable of doing my job, but because I am a woman and because I chose  to have a baby, I have been prevented from doing so.

Mr. Speaker, I thank all of the people who have come forward on both  sides of the aisle in support of this effort, and I know that our fight  is far from over. We are not going to back down. We stand with the  people from across the country who have reached out, inspired to see  somebody like them who is struggling to manage having a new baby,  balancing work, and having a work environment that does not support  their needs.

Once again, I thank Representative Luna for being a champion, as well  as Representatives Jacobs and Lawler for all of their work on this. We  won't stop until we finally get this done.

Before I am done, I acknowledge Sam, who has now made four flights  across the country to change hearts and minds and also highlight the  need for reform here in Congress.

Ms. PETTERSEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I understand that my colleague, Representative Luna, has  done everything she can to try to find a path forward, and this is  ultimately the only option that existed at the end.

Yet, this does not address the real barriers that people continue to  face. This would be the last week that I could have been home, still  working in my district, working as a Member of Congress and  representing my constituents but making sure that I was not traveling  across the country with my son.

Do my colleagues think that there would be one Republican here today  who would stand on my behalf and vote ``present'' on the bills coming  forward this week?

I don't think so. This is why this is not a workable solution. This  is not going to address when people are unable to be here for medical  reasons and for the well-being of their kid after giving birth. While I  appreciate trying to find whatever common ground we can, this is not a  deal. This does not solve our problem, and the work continues.