Big, Beautiful Bill


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I like being in the top five. I rise to  recognize Wyoming's outstanding small businesses during this Small  Business Week.

Like Wyoming's diverse topography, from pastures to sagebrush to  majestic mountains, our small business landscape boasts a robust  variety of services and industries. We have small businesses catering  to the oil and gas industry and mining and energy, and we have boutique  shops that make up our incredibly vibrant downtown areas. We have  international businesses, like Brunton, within our State and those with  similar national prominence, even some supporting our space mission and  our military and putting food on the tables of Americans across this  great country.

I recently had the opportunity to meet Wyoming's Small Business  Person of the Year, Lauren Heerschap, of Brunton International. Lauren  is an innovator who saw an opportunity to improve a product she used  every day. She worked with her husband to refine the tool and presented  it to Brunton, a company that at the time was just a business whose  equipment Lauren was using.

Within only a few years of presenting that idea, and the company  deciding to move forward with then manufacturing and eventually  marketing a new product, Lauren and her husband, David, purchased that  company. Thanks to Lauren, Brunton International is now, once again, an  American-owned company. It is a beacon of resilience and prominence, in  no small part due to the company's passionate leaders, who are willing  to take on new opportunities with enthusiasm and trudge through  challenges with tenacity.

Wyoming businessmen and -women are a special kind of people. If you  are in business in Wyoming, you are willing to be both the janitor and  the CEO, sometimes even on the same day. You have a growth mindset and  are willing to take on the challenges brought by fluctuating markets.  You both strive to progress into new areas but are willing to take time  for one-off projects in order to help an individual in your hometown.

For Wyoming's business community and small businesses across our  great Nation, I am committed to ensuring that we pass legislation that  creates a legacy and regulatory climate that allows our small  businesses to be competitive and to grow.

Small businesses are pivotal to the success of our Nation's economy.  I join my colleagues this week in celebration of the small businesses  that keep our country thriving, and I will work with them to ensure  that there is opportunity long into the future.