Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699684/disapproving-the-action-of-the-district-of-columbia-council-in-approving-the-dc-income-and-franchise-tax-conformity-and-revision-temporary-amendment-act-of-2025


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my strong support  for H.J. Res. 142, which provides for necessary and lawful  congressional oversight of the District of Columbia.

This legislation rightly exercises Congress' clear constitutional  authority to intervene in the District's affairs when its interests, or  those of its residents, are at risk. While there are many examples of  the District's poor governance that warrant scrutiny, the issue before  us today is whether the D.C. Council should be permitted to decouple  its local tax code from the historic tax relief enacted through the  Working Families Tax Cuts Act.

This landmark legislation, passed by House Republicans last July,  delivers meaningful tax relief to working Americans by expanding the  child tax credit, allowing nonitemizers to claim charitable deductions,  eliminating taxes on tips and overtime, and more.

As much as my colleagues on the other side have tried to spin this  resolution as a tax giveaway to the wealthy, the reality is that it  delivers meaningful relief to Americans at every income level. Yet now,  they are supporting an effort to deny that very relief to the residents  of the District of Columbia.

While States retain the authority to determine how they raise and  spend their tax dollars, let me be clear: The District of Columbia is  not a State. Congress has both the authority and the responsibility to  provide oversight in this matter, as well as many others affecting the  governance of our Nation's Capital.

Mr. Speaker, I thank this resolution's sponsor, Representative Gill,  and Chairman Comer, for their leadership on this important issue. I  urge my colleagues to join me in voting in favor of H.J. Res. 142.