Expedited Appeals Review Act


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in favor of my bill, H.R. 677,  the Expedited Appeals Review Act, or EARA. This bill addresses the  backlog of appeals before the Interior Board of Land Appeals, or IBLA.

The IBLA is an appellant review board within the Department of the  Interior, and it is tasked with resolving disputes involving public  lands and natural resources under the Department's jurisdiction. This  includes appeals involving the Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of  Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of Safety and Environmental  Enforcement, Office of Natural Resources Revenue, and Office of Surface  Mining Reclamation and Enforcement.

It considers appeals dealing with grazing, mining, energy  development, wildfire management, timber harvesting, trespass, and  more.

The IBLA's stated mission is: ``to provide an impartial forum within  the Department of the Interior for the fair resolution of disputes  involving public lands and natural resources under the Department's  jurisdiction.''

There are, however, longstanding inefficiencies in the appeals  process. When combined with the high volume of cases, it has resulted  in a backlog of over 650 pending appeals dating all the way back to  2014.

The IBLA receives on average 290 appeals per fiscal year. Of those  cases that are not resolved on jurisdictional or procedural grounds,  only 2 percent are decided in favor of the appellant and against the  agency.

As instituted, the IBLA is not only falling short of its stated  mission for impartiality, but creating further burdens through its  extensive backlog.

The EARA creates an alternative path for expedited review, allowing  stakeholders to request an accelerated decision of their appeals within  6 months of such a request. Failure to meet this deadline then makes  the decision immediately eligible for de novo judicial review outside  of the Department.

This bill will alleviate the backlog in the IBLA, put the appealing  entities on a level playing field with the Department and promote  efficiency.

I am proud that this bill passed out of committee by unanimous  consent, and I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill.