Federally Recognized Tribe Leasing Authority


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700388/federally-recognized-tribe-leasing-authority


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my bill,  H.R. 5910, which amends the Long-Term Leasing Act to authorize any  federally recognized Indian Tribe to lease land held in trust for its  benefit for up to 99 years.

With the enactment of the Indian Nonintercourse Act in 1834, Tribal  land transactions have generally required congressional authorization.  In 1955, however, Congress passed the Long-Term Leasing Act,  authorizing Tribal lands held in trust to be leased by the Tribal owner  for nongrazing purposes for up to 25 years, subject to approval from  the Secretary of the Interior. These leases may be renewed for one  additional term of up to 25 years, which could allow for a total lease  time of up to 50 years.

It is becoming abundantly clear that longer term leasing is needed to  assist with Tribal economic development.

For example, lease terms of 99 years are often needed for long-term  commercial projects and financing arrangements. Requiring Tribes to  come to  Congress for enactment of a new authorization slows the process to the  detriment of the Tribe.

Although Congress has acted more than 50 times to allow for lease  terms greater than 25 years, more autonomy and flexibility are needed.  H.R. 5910 amends the Long-Term Leasing Act to grant 99-year lease  authority over trust lands for any Tribe that desires this ability.

Tribes know best what is in their interest, and this bill gives them  additional authority to meet those needs. By proactively extending this  long-term leasing authority to Tribes, Congress can empower them to  pursue longer agreements that drive long-term investment, job creation,  and economic opportunity in their communities. These goals simply  cannot be achieved under the current statute.

At its core, H.R. 5910 would update existing law to better align with  modern business practices, reduce time-consuming bureaucracy Tribes  must go through, and allow each federally recognized Tribe to determine  what lease authorities are best for them and their members.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Leger Fernandez for her continued  co-leadership on this important piece of legislation and Chairman  Westerman for our Natural Resources Committee's focus on Tribal  autonomy and economic development. I encourage all of my colleagues to  support H.R. 5910.