Fire Improvement and Reforming Exceptional Events Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701958/fire-improvement-and-reforming-exceptional-events-act


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6387 to ensure  States are not unjustly penalized under the Clean Air Act for engaging  in responsible, proactive wildfire mitigation activities.

Mr. Speaker, wildfires are, unfortunately, all too common in my home  State of Wyoming and across the intermountain West.

According to the Office of State Lands and Investments, approximately  250,000 acres of land in Wyoming were burned in 2025 due to more than  1,600 wildfires. The numbers were even worse in 2024, with around  850,000 acres burned through more than 2,000 fires. With just one fire,  it burned 25,000 acres in 3 hours, giving an indication of the fuel  load in the Bighorn National Forest.

Wildfires have profound effects on all of my constituents, including  threatening the livelihoods of our farmers and ranchers, endangering  our courageous first responders, and causing serious respiratory and  other health complications for Wyoming families.

Given these life-altering consequences, we must use every tool at our  disposal, including responsible forest management--which has  historically been hampered by bad policies coming out of Washington,  D.C.--to minimize the scale and damage caused by these destructive  forces of nature.

Active forest management through prescribed burns and mechanical  thinning is essential to supporting healthy ecosystems, preventing  catastrophic wildfires, and improving the long-term air quality.

Unfortunately, as it currently stands under the Clean Air Act, the  use of these individual wildfire mitigation measures can create  uncertainty, discouraging their use out of concern that doing so would  lead to noncompliance with National Ambient Air Quality Standards.

Failure to meet these standards can result in nonattainment  designations, which can come with a host of immediate and downstream  challenges, including excessive fees and sanctions, delayed  infrastructure projects, and slowed economic growth, all of which can  lead to immeasurable harm for smaller Wyoming communities.

By reforming the Clean Air Act to ensure these wildfire mitigation  activities are appropriately treated as exceptional events, we are  incentivizing their use and putting a stop to unfair and  counterproductive regulatory punishments.

I thank Representative Evans and Chairman Guthrie for their steadfast  leadership on this legislation and urge all of my colleagues to support  H.R. 6387.