Memorandum of Understanding to Address Potential Impacts of A Certain Record of Decision on the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my legislation, H.R.  1001, which requires the Bureau of Reclamation and the Western Area  Power Administration, or WAPA, to enter into a memorandum of  understanding to address the impacts that bypass flows at Glen Canyon  Dam have had on the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund.

It is worth taking a moment to highlight why we are here today. Under  the Biden administration, the Bureau of Reclamation wanted to rush to  implement bypass flows to prevent smallmouth bass and other warm water  invasive nonnative fish from becoming established below the Glen Canyon  Dam outlet works.

This action, however, comes at significant costs as it would mean  foregoing hydropower generation for the majority of these releases.

The Bureau of Reclamation initiated its record of decision, or ROD,  over Glen Canyon Dam's long-term experimental management plan  supplemental EIS this past summer. It was signed on July 5, 2024, with  implementation beginning just 3 days later on July 8. Pretty doggone  quick.

The ROD calls for higher flows at the dam to combat the presence of  predatory smallmouth bass which threaten the federally protected  humpback chub. These higher flows bypass hydropower generators in order  to cool the river temperature below the dam in an attempt to disrupt  smallmouth bass downstream.

While this ROD was well-intentioned, it comes at a very serious cost  to communities and power customers. Due to the bypass requirements, the  lost hydropower generation must be replaced with power purchased on the  open market.

WAPA makes these purchases from the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund  which is funded by power revenues or, in other words, by the customers.  WAPA's preliminary estimate of energy replacement is about $20 million  more than it would have been without the bypass requirements. Going  forward, it projects the impact on customers to be even significantly  more.

The American people are fed up with these heavyhanded decisions by  the Federal Government that makes it increasingly difficult to get by  in this country, particularly if you are trying to raise a family.  Water is the interior West's most important resource.

For over 60 years, Glen Canyon Dam has been producing hydroelectric  power, providing reliable, flexible, low-cost, emission-free baseload  energy across the entire region. That is why this bill is important.

My bill requires the Bureau of Reclamation to acknowledge the effect  of the decision through a memorandum of understanding that measures the  economic, environmental, and reliability impacts of the action. I am  grateful that this important legislation is being considered today.