Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694893/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-miles-city-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Congressional  Review Act joint resolutions that we are bringing forward to overturn  the Biden administration's disastrous and radical resource management  plans, beginning with H.J. Res. 104 to repeal the Miles City RMP in  Montana to ensure continued access to the Powder River Basin.

These Biden-era plans lack balanced resource management and, in fact,  are mineral withdrawals in disguise, which runs contrary to Federal  law. They lock up America's resources, kill jobs, and undermine energy  security.

The Miles City Resource Management Plan amendment, combined with the  Buffalo RMP amendment in Wyoming, bans future coal leasing across the  Powder River Basin, which holds roughly 30 percent of our Nation's coal  reserves.

The Powder River Basin does not just power Montana and Wyoming,  however, but our Nation at large. The Miles City plan strips away  access to 37.8 billion short tons of coal, which is enough to meet U.S.  demand for the next 73 years.

The consequences are vast, including higher energy costs for American  families, the loss of $46 million annually in Montana State revenue  that supports public education, and the elimination of countless high- paying jobs that sustain rural communities.

Wyoming knows this fight all too well. The Buffalo field office was  hit with the same environmentalist-driven lawsuits and agency  overreach, with  bureaucrats pushing ``no leasing alternatives'' that amount to nothing  more than backdoor energy bans.

To this day, I am still baffled and horrified that, for 4 years, our  government intentionally tried to impose energy poverty on the American  people, all to please the vocal but minority climate lobby.

When the Powder River Basin turns off, so does America.

Energy security is national security. The Biden administration's RMPA  undermines both. By restricting access to our own resources, it pushes  America toward greater dependence on foreign nations, including our  adversaries.

I applaud Congressman Downing of Montana for introducing this joint  resolution, which aligns with President Trump's executive orders to  reinvigorate America's clean coal and unleash American energy, restore  strength to our energy policy, and put the needs of his constituents  and all Americans first.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution to  restore American energy dominance.