Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696878/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-buffalo-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my legislation,  H.J. Res. 130, which utilizes the congressional disapproval procedure  under the Congressional Review Act, or CRA, to restore coal leasing in  Wyoming's Powder River Basin.

Many on the East Coast of America might be surprised to learn that  the Federal Government owns massive amounts of the western States.

In Wyoming, the Federal Government owns about half of our surface  estate and 60 percent of the subsurface estate, or our minerals. In  northeast Wyoming, the Bureau of Land Management's Buffalo Field Office  owns and manages over 780,000 acres of land and 4.7 million acres of  our mineral estate.

Notably, this land encompasses Wyoming's share of the Powder River  Basin, North America's largest coal deposit responsible for the  production of 40 percent of our Nation's coal.

Wyoming is the largest coal producer in the Nation. We, in other  words, are responsible for ensuring that you can turn on your lights  and heat your home. The BLM manages its public lands pursuant to the  Federal Land Policy and Management Act, which is implemented pursuant  to what we refer to as resource management plans, or RMPs.

These RMPs are designed to maximize resource values for the public.  The BLM is required to comply with a multiple use mandate, ensuring  that these combination of uses meet current and future needs of the  American people.

In its waning days, the Biden administration issued an RMP amendment  for the Buffalo Field Office which pursued the no new leasing  alternative, pulling 481,000 acres of America's largest coal reserves  and resources offline, making 48 billion short tons of coal unavailable  and ending leasing in the Powder River Basin.

Such a decision cannot be considered a legitimate or legal RMP  pursuant to  FLPMA, and neither does it align with Congress' multiple use mandate.

The Biden RMP is instead very clearly a mineral withdrawal enacted by  climate activists in direct violation of the law.

The Biden administration's decision to terminate mining in Wyoming's  PRB is not only irresponsible and harmful but downright illegal, a  mechanism used by the governing elite to inflict harm on every single  citizen of this great country to further climate change lunacy.

If this RMPA is allowed to continue, it would risk 4,122 jobs in  rural Wyoming, $1.9 billion in labor output through 2048, and millions  of dollars in State revenue used to fund public K-12 education.

This seemingly localized decision has national repercussions, as  well. In 2024, Wyoming produced 191 million tons of coal, 171 million  tons of which were shipped to 26 different States for producing  electricity.

At these rates, Wyoming produces about 40 percent of the Nation's  coal and about 80 percent of all Federal coal production.

With coal generating as much as 23 percent of America's electricity  at any given time, Wyoming coal supplies as much as 9.2 percent of the  electricity produced in this country.

Watching the arguments in the Committee on Rules last night and on  the floor today, it is clear that ``affordability'' is the word of the  day for my colleagues across the aisle. If utility bills for Americans  are something they genuinely care about, then I encourage them to vote  for H.J. Res. 130 and to not turn off the Powder River Basin coal,  which accounts for so much of American energy and could generate even  more if Washington, D.C., had not waged a war on coal for the last  three decades.

In short, it is policies such as no new coal leasing contained in  this Buffalo RMPA that reduce affordability, which my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle will be supporting if they continue to oppose  H.J. Res. 130.

This vote today is a vote to shore up the grid, which will have  positive impacts on the utility bills of Americans. When combined with  what this majority did for energy development in the One Big Beautiful  Bill Act, we are shoring up centuries of energy production.

We cannot survive in this country without Wyoming coal, the majority  of which is produced in the Powder River Basin. Demand for Wyoming coal  is only increasing, both here and abroad. If you turn out the lights on  one of Wyoming's most important industries, you will also be turning  out the lights on America.

The Biden administration knew this and pursued this harmful policy  anyway, and they did so in violation of the law.

On September 18, 2025, the Government Accountability Office  determined that the Buffalo RMP was a rule subject to the CRA on the  grounds that it is an agency statement, is of future effect, and it  implements, interprets, or prescribes law and policy.

This decision is in line with previous GAO decisions on similar land  management plans and RMPs, several of which this body has passed in the  119th Congress.

A vote today for H.J. Res. 130 has many positive implications.

First, it would overturn this harmful plan and revert to the 2015  RMP, thereby protecting access to 481,000 acres for coal leasing.

Second, it would provide certainty to countless Wyomingites who rely  on our good, clean coal for jobs and for revenue that funds the schools  that our children attend.

Third, it is a vote for the millions of Americans who continue to  rely on Wyoming coal--and who always will.

Fourth, it is a win for Congress, reminding the agencies that we are  the primary policymaking branch of government and that we will hold the  agencies responsible for bad, unlawful regulations.

I urge all of my colleagues to vote in favor of H.J. Res. 130.