Repeal of Senate Notification Requirements Relating to Legal Process on Disclosures of Senate Data


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696923/repeal-of-senate-notification-requirements-relating-to-legal-process-on-disclosures-of-senate-data


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6019.

Included in the Senate amendment to H.R. 5371 was a section providing  for a private right of action for those Senators who were targeted by  the Biden administration to access their cell phone data.

I support repealing this particular provision, not because I think  that these Senators and others should not be able to sue the Federal  Government for these acts, but because they already have the ability to  do so.

The Senators, similar to any other citizen who was wrongfully  targeted by the Biden administration, already have a private right of  action to sue the Federal Government, including the FBI and other  agencies that may have been involved, for violation of their Fourth  Amendment rights and other statutory provisions that govern privacy  rights and/or that limit Federal law enforcement from pursuing  political witch hunts.

I guess I am just absolutely shocked by my colleague on the other  side who believes that the Federal Government has the right to invade  the privacy and violate the Fourth Amendment rights not only of sitting  U.S. Senators but the 340 million people in this country. He apparently  believes that the Federal Government has the right to access their  phone data at any time, which is absolutely untrue.

My message to those individuals who were involved in violating the  constitutional rights of American citizens is very simple. You are the  very type of tyrants that our Founders fought against and the reason as  to why they drafted the Bill of Rights. You will be exposed. You will  be held accountable. You should never be allowed near the levers of  power again.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R. 6019.