Secure Rural Schools Reauthorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697661/secure-rural-schools-reauthorization-act-of-2025


Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 356 to reauthorize  the Secure Rural Schools program.

Mr. Speaker, with such a large percentage of Wyoming's resources  historically locked up in Federal lands, including national forests,  communities across my State have long weathered challenges associated  with reduced flexibility and a decreased tax base.

While a percentage of revenue from timber sales previously alleviated  tax shortfalls, shifting land management priorities in Washington,  D.C., have led to significant declines in timber harvest.

The Secure Rural Schools program was created to bridge the gap for  our rural communities that continue to be impacted by decades of agency  mismanagement, Federal overregulations, and harmful lawsuits.

Since its creation, Wyoming communities have received vital funding  to support infrastructure projects, public education, search and rescue  operations, and other critical emergency services. The program's lapse  in authorization has since threatened these essential functions, and  its successful reauthorization will assist countless Wyoming  communities that are uniquely and disproportionately impacted by  bureaucratic decisionmaking beyond their control.

Lastly, we must not lose sight of the underlying problem and continue  to prioritize policies that restore timber production and the original  intent of our Federal land management agencies: supporting multiple use  and healthy forests through proactive management strategies while  meeting the needs of surrounding communities.

I appreciate all of the Wyoming stakeholders who brought this issue  to my attention and have remained engaged on this legislation  throughout its consideration in Congress. I also thank Representative  LaMalfa and Chairman Westerman, as well as Chairman Thompson, for their  steadfast leadership on this legislation to resolve these issues and  support our rural Wyoming communities.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support S. 356.