Recognizing the Recipients of Florida's 16th Congressional District Veteran Commendation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697469/recognizing-the-recipients-of-floridas-16th-congressional-district-veteran-commendation


Mr. BUCHANAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize a group of veterans  for their military and community service.

Our veterans have sacrificed much in the defense of our Nation. Many  of them retired their uniforms but continue their service by helping  others in their community.

Four years ago, I established the 16th District Congressional Veteran  Commendation to recognize the heroic wartime sacrifices and admirable  peacetime community involvement of my constituents. These are  exceptional Americans. I appreciate the opportunity to honor them for  their service to the Nation and community.

An independent panel reviewed several nominations and chose the  following nineteen veterans for their wartime and post-military  service. I include in the Record their names:

Nelson Betancourt of Valrico who served in the U.S. Army       outside of war time.

Benny Blackshire of Sun City Center who served in the U.S.       Army during the Vietnam War.

Jeffery Camp of Parrish who served in the U.S. Army and       Army National Guard during the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars.

Jack Carter of Lakewood Ranch who served in the U.S. Marine       Corps during the Vietnam and Gulf Wars.

Charles Conover, Jr. of Sun City Center who served in the       U.S. Army outside of war time.

Ronald Cousineau of Sun City Center who served in the U.S.       Air Force outside of war time.

Emily Farkas of Brandon who served in the U.S. Air Force       during the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars.

Ferris Garrett, Jr. of Sun City Center who served in the       U.S. Air Force during the Vietnam War.

William Greer of Wimauma who served in the U.S. Air Force       outside of war time.

Brian Hammer of Sun City Center who served in the U.S. Army       during the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars.

Nathaniel Hawthorne of Sun City Center who served in the       U.S. Navy during the Iraq War.

Roberta Jordan of Riverview who served in the U.S. Army       outside of war time.

Robert Lucas, II of Sun City Center who served in the U.S.       Army outside of war time.

Danny Melton of Riverview who served in the U.S. Marine       Corps outside of war time.

MaryAnn Rowe of Sun City Center who served in the Michigan       Army National Guard during the Iraq War.

Richard Steinestel of Valrico who served in the U.S. Navy       during the Vietnam War.

Roland Tiso, Jr. of Valrico who served in the U.S. Army       durIng the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars.

Paul Wheat, Jr. of Sun City Center who served in the U.S.       Army during the Vietnam War.

Edward Wudarsky, Jr. of Sun City Center who served in the       U.S. Army during the Vietnam War.