Central Bank Digital Currency


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693006/central-bank-digital-currency


Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Speaker, I am here today to talk about central bank  digital currencies.

A lot of people don't necessarily know what a central bank digital  currency is, so we will start with a definition. A central bank digital  currency begins with the central bank. The central bank in the United  States is the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve manages our  currency. They also manage settlement between banks, so when banks have  to pay each other, they do it directly, but a lot of times they manage  it through the central bank.

Central banks around the world, whether in the United States or the  European Union, China's central bank, most countries have a central  bank. Switzerland has the Bank for International Settlements. Their  central bank is essentially the central banker to the central banks, so  when central banks pay each other, they broker the transaction through  the Bank for International Settlements.

What is the digital currency? Digital is sort of self-explanatory.  Currency is a means of payment. Traditionally, you think of money, the  system of money is as old as people. The right to transact predates any  government. People would transact with one another before we had a  government. It is an inherent natural right. As our Founders  recognized, we are endowed by our creator with certain inalienable  rights, that among them are life, liberty, and the pursuit of  happiness.

One of the ways we pursue happiness is by transacting with each  other: We buy things, or we make money from selling things. In the  natural order, there is nobody between you and the person you want to  do business with. In cash, that is still the case. When you hand a $20  bill to somebody for sweeping your driveway or a $100 bill for  shoveling your driveway in the snow or things like that, that is  between you and maybe the high school kid who came and shoveled your  driveway. There is no third party to get in between you and the other  person.

When you think about a lot of other transactions, we have sort of  migrated to a digital payment system of sorts today that involves third  parties, like Visa or Mastercard. They dominate the payment system in  the United States. Banks are behind the credit cards, so they are in  the scene, too, but fundamentally when you transact with a credit card  people think, well, that is digital, and you are using a credit card  company.

What they do really is amazing. For a relatively small fee, they  guarantee that it really was you who made the transaction. If it was  fraudulent, they insure the transaction, they will make you whole on a  credit card if you didn't pay it. They establish the identity and say  this really is you, and you really do have the credit available. Then  they establish the person who you are buying from as a store and say  this is really a credible transaction, and they approve it or deny it.

What they do with an amazing frequency in volume of transactions is  incredible. That is a third party, and it is  a private party. They don't necessarily collect the data between you  and Walmart, what did you buy while you were at Walmart. They will be  able to say, hey, Walmart is a credible place, you really were there,  you really did spend $100 at Walmart. They don't necessarily know what  you bought there. They might be able to recover that at some point. If  they are forensically discovering what did you buy when you were at  Walmart, they might be able to work with Walmart to figure that out,  but Visa doesn't necessarily cover that. That is our current state of  payments.

In a central bank digital currency, they would be able to know with a  digital identity who you are because they have got a digital ID. When  you look at the state of privacy and the amount of data the government  has on you, they know who you are, they can have access to all kinds of  information. Even the private sector has a lot of information.

If you look at what is being done today to aggregate that data, it is  not formally being done to establish a digital ID in the United States,  but it is being done in lots of places around the world. In China, they  have done this digital identification. They have tied it with your  facial recognition features, your geolocation data, all your  transaction data that they can discern and everything else they can  find about you in a government database in China, and they build what  is known as a social credit score.

If you attend events with people who support the government, your  social credit score might go up. If you attend events and your  geolocation data is associated with people who have been critical of Xi  Jinping, your social credit score goes down. If it goes down enough,  you can't even travel in China.

They are linking this digital ID with the payment system, the digital  currency, and in that sense, they are kind of essential components to  the way that it works. The way that Visa or Mastercard establishes who  you are has its own system. Here in the central bank digital currency,  digital ID is a critical component to how it works. The last  information I had, in four provinces this is the payment system.

You think, well, China, I mean, they are a Communist government. They  have a very authoritarian leader in Xi Jinping. Surely, Western  civilization wouldn't be doing this.

The reality is that 100-plus countries around the world are  developing a central bank digital currency. They are not developing  what you would think of in America with freedom and free markets. They  are developing essentially the same kind of central bank digital  currency that China is.

In fact, the Bank for International Settlements in Switzerland is  telling people how to do it. They are facilitating central banks--not  just random central banks, our central bank. They are not working  directly with the Federal Reserve entirely.

They are saying they are working with this independent private  entity, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. This is a quasi-public- private kind of dynamic in the U.S. central bank with the Federal  Reserve.

They are building it. Literally, multiple components of the Federal  Reserve are actively recruiting people to write code to develop a  central bank digital currency.

For ``Star Wars'' fans, this is a depiction of the Death Star. I  don't want to give away the plot, but the evil empire builds this Death  Star that is like a moon-sized place, and it can destroy entire planets  with one giant laser beam. Just boom and the planet is gone.

It is an amazing amount of power that the empire has built for  themselves in ``Star Wars,'' and, of course, it is fiction. The central  bank digital currency is kind of the equivalent. The central banks are  saying: Don't worry. We would need permission from the legislature  before we could establish a central bank digital currency. We are just  designing it.

In the movie, they didn't really get permission to turn it on. They  were just designing it. Then, they were just building it, and it wasn't  yet complete. Then, they were just testing it. Once you demonstrate the  capability, you have all the power.

The reality is that in the fall, I traveled with fellow Financial  Services Committee members to the Bank of England. I met with them, and  they are developing a central bank digital currency. They know that  their legislature would have to act to impose it on the citizens of the  United Kingdom. They know that it is not popular with their citizens.  Nevertheless, they are developing it, just designing it and testing it.

Then, we traveled to Brussels and met with the European Central Bank.  They, too, are designing, developing, and testing how a central bank  digital currency could work. They know that before they could impose  this on the European Union, they would need not just support from the  European Parliament but from the member states of the European Union.  Nevertheless, they are working to build it.

Then, we traveled to Basel, Switzerland, which is the base of  operations for the Bank for International Settlements. We met with  them. They, too, said that they are just studying this, not really  proposing that everyone do it.

The reality is that when you talk to everyone who is developing it,  who is helping coordinate it? The Bank for International Settlements.  Again, there is no country that we found anywhere that is developing a  system that protects privacy, that protects identity, and that protects  the transaction data. They are all doing it the same way China is, and  they are designing it to be interoperable around the world.

The reality is that a system of money is as old as civilization. Like  I said, the right to transact predates any government. The government  doesn't give you that right. Governments around the world have adopted  a very similar approach. In the United States, we have the Bank Secrecy  Act, anti-money laundering laws, and know your customer laws.

The United States, every Western democracy, and dictatorships around  the world have similar features for banking. If you spy on your  customers, you are allowed to operate a financial services business.  They don't state it that way. I mean, it is not that creepy inherently  in the United States. For the most part, you are supposed to get a  warrant. They don't always do that. They have been found to violate it  on occasion in the United States. In certain other governments, it is  very creepy.

As we were working to protect secrecy, the Canadian Government was  literally imposing a shutdown on bank accounts for Canadian truck  drivers who were protesting COVID policies in Canada. It wasn't that  they were stacking SWAT teams or special operators outside the door of  houses. The one ring to rule them all, the massive amount of power, was  your access to your own money. You can't even buy groceries. You can't  pay rent. You have no means of payment.

That is why it is essential that we protect the power to transact and  protect privacy so that it really has the same kind of characteristics  as cash.

As a citizen, without probable cause and due process, no one should  see your transaction data. Without being guilty of something, no one  should limit your ability to transact. That is the system of government  our countrymen have.

Around the world, they don't have the same protections, so why is our  government and our central bank working on the exact same plan? When  you look at dystopian fiction, whether it is ``Brave New World'' or  ``Nineteen Eighty-Four,'' or what I and billions of people around the  world consider Scripture, the Book of Revelation, the money is always  corrupted.

It is taken from its proper use as a store of value and an efficient  means of transaction, and it is corrupted into a tool for surveillance,  coercion, and control. Unless you comply with the regime, whoever that  is, then you don't get the right to transact.

Everywhere it is depicted, whether it is fiction or Scripture, it is  evil, so we should rightly resist this future. It is dystopian.  ``Nineteen Eighty-Four'' was meant to be fiction, not an instruction  manual. Unfortunately, you see people working to build this very future  around the world. That is what a central bank digital currency is.

Let me tell you what it is not. People often associate every kind of  digital money with central bank digital currency. Bitcoin may be the  most widely known form of crypto, certainly the  biggest share of the market value. If you look at the Bitcoin white  paper--you can look it up out there. In just the abstract, the whole  point is to preserve the characteristics of cash, permissionless peer- to-peer transactions where there is no third party that goes through  it. This is why Bitcoin became popular.

The ability to do this depends on the architecture. There is no  corporate headquarters, no CEO. It is really math and computer  programming.

How does this work? They establish trust in a different way. They  assume they trust no one. The transactions are approved in blocks. With  blockchain, that is the way it is done. It is done very securely.

Governments around the world initially didn't like it. They wanted to  ban it. After a while, they decided that they couldn't really ban it,  so they were not going to be able to stop it. The checkdown position is  to just keep it account-based.

Account-based crypto is pretty harmless. It is about like banking. I  mean, cash isn't technically illegal. When you go to the bank and ask  for any significant amount of it, they always ask questions. That is  because of the Bank Secrecy Act, the anti-money laundering laws, the  know your customer laws. ``What are you going to do with all that  cash?'' ``It is my cash. Why can't I have it?''

Sometimes they will tell you. Sometimes they won't. I have to fill  out this report. ``Who gave you all that cash?'' In fact, if you  deposit more than $10,000, it creates a cash transaction report.

When that was first passed in the early 1970s, it was $10,000. Today,  that number adjusted for inflation is over $81,000. That is who they  were looking for. If you look at the last Presidential administration  under Joe Biden, they wanted to know about your bank account if you had  ever had $600 of transactions in your bank account, so they were going  the other way.

The reality is that they want to monitor every single transaction.  That is how they know whether you had a transaction over $10,000. They  look at everything. There is already a lot of surveillance in it. To  me, maybe too much.

The question is, what can you do with it? Once you create a central  bank digital currency, you have empowered the central bank to see every  side of every transaction.

In fact, the former director of the Commodity Futures Trading  Commission, Giancarlo, talked about digital dollars. He has gone around  for a long time talking about it and touts the features. They call it  programmable money.

If you wanted to put stimulus into the economy like we were doing  during COVID, you could put money in and say it expires. If you don't  spend it by this date, it is gone. You can say it can be used only for  these things.

When we did stimulus checks during COVID, a lot of people went out  and bought flat-screen TVs from China. That didn't exactly help the  U.S. economy. Proponents of programmable money were saying they could  make it so you could spend it only on these things and not those  things.

Climate change alarmists--climatologists, as I refer to them--could  program the money so that if you are driving a hybrid vehicle but still  need to buy gas from time to time to keep your hybrid internal  combustion engine running, you could pay $2 a gallon for gas. If you  are driving a pickup truck that is considered a gas guzzler, you could  pay $10 a gallon.

It is programmable money. You could design any feature in it you want  because the central government controls it.

Mr. Speaker, the central government controls it.

That is why central bank digital currency is truly a threat to  Western civilization. It puts the government between us and our money.

In the United States, the pursuit of happiness has been defined as  protection for private property and property rights. There is no more  basic thing than the property right to a bank account and to the money  we earn. We have a right to the paycheck that gets deposited into a  bank account.

Mr. Speaker, if that is not really yours, if it is really  programmable money and if it is conditioned upon whatever the  government wants to condition it upon, is it really yours?

That is exactly the future that people want to create out of crypto.  If we look at the Bitcoin White Paper and many of the other use cases,  Crypto is designed to somewhat separate money from the State. This  future is pretty creepy.

It is quite literally Orwellian. It is described as one of the  characteristics in Orwell's famous book ``1984.'' Dystopian is another  synonym for Orwellian. It gives the government a massive amount of  power, coercion and control over the public. Yes, perfect surveillance  could, if in the hands of benign, good actors, protect us and keep us  safe from bad people.

In our country, we can easily see people who suffer from what I label  as Trump derangement syndrome. These are people who are alarmed that  Donald Trump would have access to information. Imagine if Donald Trump  could control this money. A lot of people in our country would be  scared to death. On the other hand, we can imagine maybe somebody from  the political left who would control this money. We could say that that  is pretty creepy.

Just like in ``The Lord of the Rings'' where they had the one ring to  rule them all. The only good thing to do with the one ring to rule them  all is destroy it.

Actively, right now, the Federal Reserve is hiring coders to write  code and develop a central bank digital currency. Actively, right now,  our allies are working to develop this.

Actively, right now, just as the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.  Schweikert) who spoke right before me addressed, the United States has  a massive debt problem. So does a lot of the rest of the world.

The last time the planet had this much debt was at the end of World  War II. The main difference is at the end of World War II, we knew we  had to spend less money, and we did. Our debt-to-GDP ratio, the amount  of money we owe versus the size of our economy, is about the same size  as it is right now.

Instead of spending less, right now we can't even agree to cut off  $9.4 billion in DOGE cuts. That is 0.13 percent of what our United  States Government is going to spend this year. It passed the House with  no support from Democrats and four Republicans voting against it, but  it can't get a floor vote in the Senate yet.

Think about this. At the end of World War II, we knew we had to spend  less. Even then, they did a monetary reset. Some people might have  heard of this idea of a great reset. One of the core components of it  is resetting the money system.

The money system they have in mind is the central bank digital  currency. When a crisis occurs, they might say that, well, there are  all kinds of things we could do, but here is what we can do now. It  would take forever to develop every other alternative. What we could do  now is what we have been working on for a decade. We could launch this  central bank digital currency. It will solve everything. It will keep  us safe. It will catch the tax evaders, the money launderers, and the  illicit finance.

In the hands of a good leader, it could. The reality is we know, as  our Founders recognized in Federalist Paper after Federalist Paper and  in the very structure of our government, eventually somebody who isn't  benign is going to have the power.

For ``The Lord of the Rings'' fans, they know that even the best  person, when they put the ring on, it is tempting to do evil things.  That is what is going to happen with this.

We have to stop it right now. When he came into office, Donald  Trump's executive order, among digital assets, banned central bank  digital currency.

That is why my colleague from Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) has moved a bill  to ban central bank digital currency. Unfortunately, it hasn't gotten a  vote on the floor of this House this term in the House of  Representatives, and it doesn't have a clear path through the Senate.

While it is the creepiest surveillance tool I have ever seen, I can't  get my coalition of Republicans and Democrats to oppose it. Last  Congress, I had a coalition of 123 Republicans and 96 Democrats who  voted to end the evasion of the Fourth Amendment.

The Fourth Amendment is supposed to protect our privacy. The  government is supposed to get our data only with probable cause or a  warrant or a subpoena from a court. They are buying our data. They are  creating a market for data, and they are buying their way around the  Fourth Amendment. We wanted to turn that off.

The Fourth Amendment doesn't regulate private entities, but it does  regulate the government. In part, the government has a power that no  private-sector body does. They can put us in jail. They can deprive us  of life, liberty, and property.

I am glad that we have this bipartisan coalition, but I don't  understand why Democrats are more concerned about the ability to  monitor our transactions than they are about the invasion of privacy. I  hope we restore that coalition on this and we can work together to ban  central bank digital currency.

I truly believe this poses an existential threat to Western  civilization. If this thing takes effect, it is a massive amount of  power. It is the kind of power that the Death Star has over  civilization. People think they would resist. A lot of people won't  even go vote. How aggressively are they going to resist when the  government shuts off access to their bank?

We had a trial run of this during COVID. Lots of people really  objected to all sorts of things about COVID policies, like when their  workplace imposed mandates and restrictions including shots that  weren't really tested or proven. Now we find out that the data, there  is a lot of concern about mRNA, in particular.

I talked to nurses who were crying in our office, but they felt like  they couldn't risk losing their job. They chose to get shots that they  were concerned about. The coercive power of the access to earning a  living is a massive amount of power. People can't afford it. They can't  pay their way to live. They can't raise their family.

This power is way bigger than that. We have got to stop this. We have  a President who wants to stop it. He issued an executive order, but we  don't have a legislature that is doing the work to stop it.

We were talking about moving crypto bills today. The Senate passed  the GENIUS Act in the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban  Affairs and on the floor of the Senate, which regulates stablecoin.

Stablecoins are about 7 percent of the crypto market. The rest is  market structure. I have had a bill to regulate that since 2018. For  over 7 years, I have been trying to stop this. I do not want to stop  the good things. I do not want to stop the market from things like  bitcoin, bitcoin ETFs, or all other kinds of use cases that are good. I  do not want to stop self-custody but protect self-custody so that we  protect the ability to do transactions.

We are trying to stop the counter to it, central bank digital  currency, the one ring to rule them all. We have been trying to stop it  for that long. The idea was maybe not even possible technologically  when science fiction writers were writing ``Brave New World'' or  ``1984'' or ``Fahrenheit 451.'' In Scripture, how could this even  happen, when we read Revelation through all time?

Today, we can see the technology that can do it. With artificial  intelligence, it is even quicker. We are here, talking about an AI  provision in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act that stays. No matter what  else they rule out, they seem to find a way for the AI provision to be  there for more surveillance on more people.

We have got to stop this. We need the legislature to step up and do  it. I plead with people everywhere I can, don't be fearful of all  digital assets. For example, bitcoin is 180 degrees different than  central bank digital currency.

Mr. Speaker, do everything you can to stop the government's power  grab with this, or the superficial layer that is really just cosmetic  where the big banks offer a cosmetic layer of stablecoins but on the  back end it is effectively a central bank digital currency operated by  not just the Federal Reserve, but the central banks around the world  working together with the Bank for International Settlements to create  this system.

It is a true threat to Western Civilization and maybe something that  to some of my colleagues who couldn't be here tonight also is as big of  a deal to them. I appreciate those people who have cosponsored and  voted for   Tom Emmer's bill. I hope we can vote on it soon in the  House, and the Senate takes it up.