Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700507/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Speaker, my name is Warren Davidson, and I love  this country with a soldier's passion.

More than 30 years ago, I enlisted in the infantry. My chain of  command later helped me earn an appointment to the United States  Military Academy at West Point. I was commissioned as an infantry  officer, serving in the 75th Ranger Regiment, the 101st Airborne,  Rakkasans, and The Old Guard.

Then and now, I swore an oath to support and defend our Constitution  against all enemies, foreign and domestic.

Make no mistake, Iran is an enemy of the United States. As our  military engages them, they do so justly. Unfortunately, they are not  yet doing so constitutionally, and that is why we are here today.

For some, this debate will be about whether we should even be  fighting in Iran. For me, the debate is more fundamental: Is the  President of the United States, regardless of the person holding the  office, empowered to do whatever he wants? That is not what our  Constitution says.

Is he empowered to do whatever he wants for 60 or 90 days? That is  not what the War Powers Act says.

Is there any limit to executive authority whatsoever?

I rise in support of this War Powers Resolution today because the  moral hazard posed by a government no longer constrained by our  Constitution is a grave threat.

The threat to a government no longer constrained by the plain meaning  of words is not new for Democrats. Recall that Democrats needed help  answering: ``What is a woman?'' Unfortunately, Republicans now want to  claim they can't answer: ``What is a war?''

This debate isn't even new. Democratic President Harry Truman  obstructed a vote on the Korean war, pretending it was, instead, a U.N.  police action. Republican Senator Taft from Ohio insisted in vain that  Congress should not shirk its duty to vote on declaring war or at least  to authorize the conflict. Instead, Congress then, as it has in the  past, passively cut checks to fund the war that they refused to  authorize.

This dereliction of duty is commonly mocked as an example of  constitutional avoidance, and it contributed to the passage of the War  Powers Act.

President Trump's America First message was supposed to be a  rejection of the globalist war machine whose endless wars have left  America less free, less safe, and more burdened by debt. On the other  hand, President Trump has been reluctant to embrace war and has been  incredibly successful in diplomacy.

In this case, war may well be necessary, but it is far more pressing  that we restore a government small enough to fit within the  Constitution. We can afford a government that small and no other.  America is a Republic, not an empire.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage everyone to honor their oath and support our  Constitution. Vote ``yes'' on this resolution.