Systemic Risk Authority Transparency Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697286/systemic-risk-authority-transparency-act


Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3716) to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require  reports on the use of the systemic risk authority applicable to winding  up a failed insured depository institution, and for other purposes, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3716

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Systemic Risk Authority       Transparency Act''.       SEC. 2. BANK FAILURE TRANSPARENCY RELATED TO SYSTEMIC RISK                     EXCEPTION.

(a) GAO Review.--Section 13(c)(4)(G)(iv) of the Federal       Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1823(c)(4)(G)(iv)) is       amended to read as follows:

``(iv) GAO review.--

``(I) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United       States shall, not later than 60 days after a determination is       made under clause (i), and again 180 days thereafter, review       and report to the Congress on the determination under clause       (i), including--

``(aa) the basis for the determination;

``(bb) the purpose for which any action was taken pursuant       to such clause;

``(cc) the likely effect of the determination and such       action on the incentives and conduct of insured depository       institutions and uninsured depositors;

``(dd) any mismanagement by the executives and board of the       insured depository institution that contributed to the       failure of the insured depository institution;

``(ee) a review of the compensation practices of the       insured depository institution;

``(ff) any supervisory or regulatory shortcomings with       respect to the appropriate Federal banking agency of the       insured depository institution;

``(gg) any actions taken by the Federal banking regulators,       Financial Stability Oversight Council, Department of the       Treasury, and other relevant financial regulators in relation       to the failure of the insured depository institution; and

``(hh) any additional relevant entities or activities that       may have contributed to the failure of the insured depository       institution, including with respect to auditing, accounting,       credit rating agencies, investment bank underwriters, and       emergency liquidity options such as loans from the Federal       reserve banks or advances through the Federal Home Loan Bank       system.

``(II) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this clause or a       report issued pursuant to this clause may be construed to       limit the authority of a Federal agency to enforce violations       of Federal statutes, rules, or orders.''.

(b) Appropriate Federal Banking Agency Report.--Section       13(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.       1823(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(12) Appropriate federal banking agency report.--

``(A) In general.--The appropriate Federal banking agency       of an insured depository institution about which a       determination is made under paragraph (4)(G)(i) shall, not       later than 90 days after the date of such determination, and       again 210 days thereafter, submit a report to the Congress       that discloses the following:

``(i) Subject to such redactions as the appropriate Federal       banking agency determines appropriate of personally       identifiable information about customers and other financial       institutions (as such term is defined under section       11(e)(9)(D)), all--

``(I) reports of examination and inspection that relate to       the failed insured depository institution in the previous 3-      year period;

``(II) formal communications of a material supervisory       determination conveyed to the failed insured depository       institution in the previous 3-year period; and

``(III) any additional exam reports and correspondence that       the appropriate Federal banking agency determines may be       relevant to the failure of the insured depository       institution.

``(ii) An examination of any mismanagement by the       executives and board of the insured depository institution       that contributed to the failure of the insured depository       institution.

``(iii) Any supervisory or regulatory shortcomings by such       appropriate Federal banking agency with respect to the       insured depository institution.

``(iv) Any dynamics that the appropriate Federal banking       agency determines may have contributed to the failure of the       insured depository institution.

``(v) Any supervisory, regulatory, or legislative       recommendations such appropriate Federal banking agency may       have to improve the safety and soundness of similarly       situated insured depository institutions, the banking system,       and financial stability.

``(B) Protection of sensitive information.--

``(i) Effect on privilege.--The provision of any       information by a Federal banking agency under this paragraph       may not be construed as--

``(I) waiving, destroying, or otherwise affecting any       privilege applicable to the information; or

``(II) waiving any exemption applicable to the information       under section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly       known as the `Freedom of Information Act').

``(ii) Transparency.--

``(I) In general.--A Federal banking agency shall publish       materials contained in a report required under subparagraph       (A) to the fullest extent possible to promote transparency.

``(II) Consultation on omitting materials.--If a Federal       banking agency determines particular materials described       under subclause (I) should not be published, the Federal       banking agency shall consult with the chair and ranking       member of the Committee on Financial Services of the House of       Representatives and the chair and ranking member of the       Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the       Senate.

``(III) Omitting materials.--If, after the consultation       required under subclause (II), the Federal banking agency       determines there is a substantial public interest in not       publishing such materials, the Federal banking agency shall       provide those materials to the Committee on Financial       Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on       Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate with a       written explanation describing the reasons for not publishing       those materials.

``(iii) Privilege.--For purposes of this subparagraph, the       term `privilege' includes any work-product, attorney-client,       or other privilege recognized under Federal or State law.

``(C) Report extension.--A Federal banking agency may       extend a deadline described under subparagraph (A) for an       additional 60 days, if the Federal banking agency--

``(i) faces ongoing circumstances that require the Federal       banking agency to prioritize activities to promote stability       of the U.S. banking system; and

``(ii) notifies the Congress of such extension and the       reasons for such extension.

``(D) Consolidated reports.--A Federal banking agency may       consolidate multiple reports required under this paragraph so       long as the individual reports being consolidated all meet       the timing requirements under this paragraph.

``(E) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this paragraph or       reports or materials provided pursuant to this paragraph may       be construed to limit the authority of a Federal agency to       enforce violations of Federal statutes, rules, or orders.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3716, the Systemic Risk  Authority Transparency Act.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Green) for  offering this bill. I am pleased to note that this legislation earned  unanimous support of the House Financial Services Committee in June,  passing 51-0. I thank Mr. Green for offering this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the CBO cost estimate for this  bill.    H.R. 3716, SYSTEMIC RISK AUTHORITY TRANSPARENCY ACT, AS REPORTED BY THE          HOUSE COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES ON JULY 15, 2025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                           By fiscal year, millions of                                                    dollars--                                      -----------------------------------                                          2025      2025-2030   2025-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...........          0           *           * Revenues............................          0           *           * Increase or Decrease (-) in the               0           *           *  Deficit............................ Spending Subject to Appropriation             0           *           *  (Outlays).......................... ------------------------------------------------------------------------ * = between -$500,000 and $500,000.

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? *

Increases on-budget deficits on any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? *

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? Yes

Mandate Effects:

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No

Contains private-sector mandate? Yes, Under Threshold

H.R. 3716 would require several federal agencies to report       to the Congress if federal banking regulators invoke an       emergency determination known as the systemic risk exception.       Systemic risk is the possibility that the failure of a       financial business, market, or product could trigger severe       financial instability in the economy. The bill would require       the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Federal       Reserve, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), and the       Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to submit       information about bank supervision, regulation, management,       and recommendations to improve the safety and soundness of       the industry.

Enacting H.R. 3716 would increase administrative costs for       those agencies to meet the additional reporting requirements.       CBO estimates that the total cost across all four agencies       would be less than $500,000 over the 2025-2035 period. The       budgetary treatment for those four agencies is described       below:

The operating costs for the FDIC and the OCC are classified       as direct spending. The OCC collects fees from financial       institutions to offset its operating costs; those fees are       recorded as offsetting receipts, that is, as reductions in       direct spending. CBO estimates that enacting the bill would,       on net, increase direct spending by less than $500,000 over       the 2025-2035 period.

Costs incurred by the Federal Reserve reduce remittances to       the Treasury, which are recorded in the budget as revenues.       CBO estimates that enacting H.R. 3716 would decrease revenues       by less than $500,000 over the 2025-2035 period.

GAO's funding is provided in annual appropriation acts. CBO       estimates that implementing the bill would cost less than       $500,000 over the 2025-2030 period; any related spending       would be subject to the availability of appropriated funds.

If federal financial regulators increase annual fees to       offset the costs of implementing the bill, H.R. 3716 would       increase the costs of an existing private-sector mandate on       entities required to pay those fees. CBO estimates that the       incremental cost of the mandate would be small and would fall       well below the annual threshold established in the Unfunded       Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) for private-sector mandates ($206       million in 2025, adjusted annually for inflation).

The bill contains no intergovernmental mandates as defined       in UMRA.

The CBO staff contacts for this estimate are Julia Aman       (for federal costs), Nate Frentz (for revenues), and Rachel       Austin (for mandates). The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel       Papenfuss, Deputy Director of Budget Analysis.                                                     Mark P. Hadley            (For Phillip L. Swagel, Director, Congressional Budget                                                            Office).      Legislation Considered Under Suspension of the Rules

The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives       announces bills that will be considered under suspension of       the rules in that chamber. Under suspension, floor debate is       limited, all floor amendments are prohibited, points of order       against the bill are waived, and final passage requires a       two-thirds majority vote.

At the request of the Majority Leader and the House       Committee on the Budget, CBO estimates the effects of those       bills on direct spending and revenues. CBO has limited time       to review the legislation before consideration. Although it       is possible in most cases to determine whether the       legislation would affect direct spending or revenues, time       may be insufficient to estimate the magnitude of those       effects. If CBO has prepared estimates for similar or       identical legislation, a more detailed assessment of       budgetary effects, including effects on spending subject to       appropriation, may be included.

Mr. DAVIDSON. For the reasons I explained earlier, Mr. Speaker, I  urge all of my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.