Trump's First 100 Days


Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, I thank so much my amazing colleague from  the great State of California for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a simple but clear message. First of  all, I just have to clear up a few things. Instead of the President  cosplaying as the next Pope, he may want to try to cosplay as an actual  President of these United States. That means that he may have to do a  little bit of research and decide that he wants to understand that he  swore an oath, and this oath was to protect and defend the  Constitution. That is the oath that he was supposedly taking on January  20.

We may want as well that the President look into what the Declaration  of Independence was about. We may want him to understand that there was  a foundational document as relates to self-determination of those who  had recently gained their independence from Great Britain.

I hoped that he would maybe spend a few of these days in his first  100 days doing that. It is sad to say it is his second term, and he  doesn't understand that the Declaration of Independence is about this  idea that we are entitled to the rights of life, liberty, and the  pursuit of happiness, and that is for all of us that are here.

Let's go through some of the things that he did manage to do and some  of the havoc that he has managed to wreak.

In the first 100 days of the Trump administration, we have had to,  unfortunately, endure a lot of pain. This administration clearly is not  ready to lead. They are only here to tear down.

In just 100 days, we have witnessed an administration hell-bent on  dismantling the very systems designed to protect the most vulnerable  amongst us. For Black Americans, those of us who have always carried  the weight of a broken system and bad policies, the danger is real, it  is tangible, and it is urgent.

Let me be clear: The last 100 days have not been an accident or a  fluke. He has done exactly what he said he was going to do. He gave us  the blueprint in Project 2025. Some tried to warn us of the dangers  and, well, here we are.

Let's talk about education. Within weeks of taking office, the  Department of Education quietly rescinded guidance encouraging schools  to teach honest, inclusive Black history. Instead, they are attempting  to whitewash history and have begun promoting so-called patriotic  education, a sanitized version of history that skips over slavery, Jim  Crow, redlining, and systemic racism.

He signed an executive order reinstating ``commonsense discipline  practices in school,'' rolling back previous administrations' attempts  to address racial disparities in school discipline practices. Make no  mistake: These decisions have a direct impact on Black children,  children who deserve a fair shot to learn in safe and supportive  environments.

Let's talk about housing. HUD announced plans to gut fair housing  rules meant to fight discrimination. Those are the same ones that he  violated back when he was a landlord so many years ago. Yeah, those  same rules that were supposed to fight discrimination in lending and  zoning. This means there will be even more roadblocks for Black  families trying to buy a home and yet another generation locked out of  building wealth.

Let's talk about public safety. While they are cutting afterschool  programs and community violence prevention, they are pouring millions  of dollars into militarizing police departments. They are criminalizing  our communities while stripping away the very resources that keep us  safe.

Finally, money talks, so let's talk money. This administration  slashed funding of seven government agencies that provide Black  communities with educational materials and economic opportunities,  including the Minority Business Development Agency, the only Federal  agency dedicated to uplifting minority businesses. This agency helped  entrepreneurs all across the country, including in my own district,  keep their doors open and their workers employed. Now, it is under  attack.

While all of this is happening, they are dismantling environmental  protections in environmental justice, slashing funding for HBCUs, and  rolling back civil rights enforcement across Federal agencies. Let me  repeat what that means. To roll back civil rights enforcement across  Federal agencies, this is the so-called DEI attacks that we continue to  endure in this country. This is their way of trying to roll back the  Civil Rights Act of 1964 that so many died and bled for.

Mr. Speaker, this is not just about policy disagreement. This is  about direct attacks on Black futures, Black prosperity, and Black  freedom. This is about right versus wrong, point blank. But here is  what they don't understand. We have seen this playbook, and every time  they have attempted to silence us, erase us, and hold us down, we have  resisted and we have pushed this country closer to the ideals it claims  to hold.

They are trying to bury us, but what they don't realize is that we  are seeds and still we rise. I stand here a proud Black woman and a  proud member of the Congressional Black Caucus, and I refuse to stand  by while this administration tries to turn back the hands of time. We  will resist. We will continue speaking truth to power, and we will keep  organizing until everybody is free because, in the words of Fannie Lou  Hamer, nobody is free until everybody is free.