Aerial Firefighting Enhancement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691858/aerial-firefighting-enhancement-act-of-2025


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (S. 160) to amend the Wildfire Suppression Aircraft Transfer Act of  1996 to reauthorize the sale by the Department of Defense of aircraft  and parts for wildfire suppression purposes, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 160

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Aerial Firefighting       Enhancement Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. MODIFICATION AND REAUTHORIZATION OF AUTHORITY FOR                     SALE BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF AIRCRAFT AND                     PARTS FOR WILDFIRE SUPPRESSION PURPOSES.

Section 2 of the Wildfire Suppression Aircraft Transfer Act       of 1996 (Public Law 104-307; 10 U.S.C. 2576 note) is       amended--

(1) in subsection (a)(1)--

(A) by striking ``a period'' and inserting ``the period'';       and

(B) by inserting ``or water'' after ``fire retardant'';

(2) in subsection (b), by striking ``sold under subsection       (a)'' and all that follows through the period at the end and       inserting ``sold under subsection (a) may be used only for       the provision of aircraft services for wildfire suppression       purposes.'';

(3) in subsection (c), by inserting ``or water'' after       ``fire retardant'';

(4) in subsection (d)(1), in the second sentence, by       striking ``subsection (a)(1)'' and inserting ``subsection       (g)''; and

(5) by striking subsection (g) and inserting the following:

``(g) Period for Exercise of Authority.--The period       specified in this subsection is the period beginning on the       date of the enactment of the Aerial Firefighting Enhancement       Act of 2025 and ending on October 1, 2035.''.

Mr. Speaker, I am happy to support S. 160, the Aerial Firefighting  Enhancement Act.

This bill will amend the Wildfire Suppression Aircraft Transfer Act  of 1996 to allow the Department of Defense to, once again, sell excess  aircraft and aircraft parts for wildfire suppression.

This will help facilitate the acquisition of excess military aircraft  for the aerial wildfire suppression fleet.

This lifesaving authority protects our aerial firefighters and brings  in revenue from military aircraft that are not needed. In fact, the  Congressional Budget Office anticipates this legislation will reduce  government spending.

Our brave first responders work tirelessly on the front lines,  fighting wildfires that continue to get more dangerous every year.

This bipartisan, commonsense bill gives these brave men and women  access to more equipment that is critical in an emergency.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Senators Tim Sheehy and Martin Heinrich for  introducing this important legislation which passed the Senate  unanimously in April.

I also thank Representative   Dan Newhouse for introducing the House  companion bill and leading the charge in this Chamber. I encourage my  colleagues to once again support S. 160.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this  important legislation, which will protect our brave aerial firefighters  across the country.