Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of 2025


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 879, I call up  the bill (H.R. 5107) to repeal the Comprehensive Policing and Justice  Reform Amendment Act of 2022 enacted by the District of Columbia  Council, and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I support the CLEAN DC Act, which repeals the majority  of D.C.'s so-called Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Act of  2022.

By repealing this antipolice law, we will make our Nation's Capital  safer. We will also restore the integrity of and faith in the law  enforcement of the District of Columbia.

For instance, this law stripped law enforcement officers of many  tools needed to execute their duties safely and without fear of  retribution, as well as limited their options in situations of life or  death.

It also created new opportunities for antipolice activists to harass  law enforcement officers and added many undue burdens and requirements  to officers in the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department.

In 2023, both the House and Senate sought to nullify this law by  passing a joint resolution of disapproval. Unfortunately, this  resolution was vetoed by then-President Biden.

The CLEAN DC Act would largely repeal D.C.'s antipolice law and  ensure that law enforcement officers have the tools to keep visitors  and residents safe. D.C. law enforcement officers, who put their lives  on the line every day for our community, must have the capabilities to  do their jobs as they are trained to do.

By addressing the retention and recruitment crisis gripping D.C.'s  Metropolitan Police Department, Congress can do its part in helping to  boost the number of crime fighters this city desperately needs to keep  violent criminals off of the streets.

I thank the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Clyde) for leading this  effort in this Congress, and I encourage my colleagues to join me in  supporting this legislation.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, Congress has a constitutional duty to ensure the  District of Columbia is safe and secure. I urge my colleagues to  support this critical police reform bill that has the strong support of  the National Fraternal Order of Police.