Condemning the Attacks on Minnesota Lawmakers in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota, and Calling for Unity and the Rejection of Political Violence in Minnesota and Across the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692859/condemning-the-attacks-on-minnesota-lawmakers-in-brooklyn-park-and-champlin-minnesota-and-calling-for-unity-and-the-rejection-of-political-violence-in-minnesota-and-across-the-united-states


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the  resolution (H. Res. 519) condemning the attacks on Minnesota lawmakers  in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota, and calling for unity and the  rejection of political violence in Minnesota and across the United  States, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the resolution.

The text of the resolution is as follows:                                H. Res. 519

Whereas, on June 14, 2025, a gunman entered the home of       Minnesota State Senator       John Hoffman and shot and critically injured him and his       wife, Yvette Hoffman;

Whereas the gunman then entered the home of Minnesota State       House Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman and assassinated her       and her husband Mark Hortman;

Whereas the gunman had documents that listed dozens of       lawmakers targeted for assassination;

Whereas the law enforcement officers of Brooklyn Park and       Champlin saved additional lives by intervening with their       bravery and rapid response to the attack;

Whereas Speaker Emerita Hortman was a formidable public       servant who served her community and the people of Minnesota       with deep devotion, compassion, and strength;

Whereas acts of political violence have no place in the       United States of America and represent a grave threat to our       nation;

Whereas swift condemnation of political violence by elected       officials is necessary to preserve and protect American       democracy;

Whereas when these violent acts expose division, we must       persevere in the pursuit of democratic principles, resolving       our differences through debate and civil discourse; and

Whereas political violence not only attacks the life and       liberty of our representatives, it also attacks the right of       the people to be represented: Now, therefore, be it

Resolved, That the House of Representatives, in this moment       of tragic loss--

(1) strongly condemns and denounces the attacks on       Minnesota state legislators in Brooklyn Park and Champlin,       Minnesota on June 14, 2025;

(2) honors the life of Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman for       her devotion to public service and her tireless efforts to       serve the people of Minnesota, and the life of her husband,       Mark Hortman;

(3) honors Senator John Hoffman and his wife, Yvette       Hoffman, who were shot and critically injured, and wishes       their full and speedy recovery;

(4) honors the courageous law enforcement officers who       saved additional lives with their rapid response to the       attack and successfully apprehended and charged the suspected       perpetrator on June 15, 2025;

(5) calls on all community leaders and elected officials to       publicly and unequivocally denounce acts of political       violence; and

(6) calls on all people in the United States to unite in       this moment of pain and tragedy and reaffirm our commitment       to a safe, civil, and peaceful democracy where violent       rhetoric and acts are not tolerated.

Mr. Speaker, on June 14, a horrific tragedy was inflicted on America  and the State of Minnesota.

Early that morning, a deranged assassin ambushed State Senator John  Hoffman and his wife, Yvette, both of whom were shot multiple times at  their home while bravely defending their daughter.

Hours later, the same assassin broke into the residence of Melissa  Hortman and murdered her and her husband, Mark, in cold blood. Melissa  was the former 61st speaker of the Minnesota House of Representatives.

These attacks were not random.

Recent evidence has revealed that they were part of a larger plot the  assailant was planning that appeared to target public servants and  their families across the State.

Such violence has no place in our country, especially political  violence. Today, my colleagues and I firmly condemn these attacks and  all who seek to harm our elected officials, regardless of party or  ideology.

In this country, we resolve our differences through spirited debate,  the ballot box, and by working through an intentionally designed  constitutional system left to us as our Founding Fathers' greatest  legacy.

The victims of this horrible attack were not just politicians. They  were neighbors, parents, sons, and daughters. They believed in this  Nation and their State enough to dedicate their lives to representing  their constituents' interests and the pursuit of positive change.

I am confident that my colleagues share this sentiment and can agree  that no American, whether elected official or private citizen, should  live in fear of being targeted for their beliefs, their vote, or their  service.

I would also like to recognize the valiant effort of law enforcement  in tracking down and capturing the suspect in this case.

Despite knowing the danger the alleged murderer posed, for 40 hours,  officers across numerous departments and agencies worked tirelessly to  locate and stop the killer before he could strike again. Their courage  and professionalism prevented further loss of life, and they deserve  our deepest gratitude.

We stand with the people of Minnesota. We condemn these horrific  attacks and denounce political violence in all its forms as contrary to  the American Constitution and our way of life.

In moments like these, we must all come together to reaffirm our  commitment to protecting the peace and civility that define the America  that I know and love.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I join my House colleagues in offering my  deepest condolences to the people of Minnesota.

I particularly extend my sympathies to my House colleagues  representing the Minnesota delegation. We mourn the loss of Melissa and  Mark Hortman, remembering their lives and the lasting impact they had  on the State they loved so deeply.

We send warm wishes of recovery to John and Yvette Hoffman, who have  displayed true courage through this nightmare.

My prayers are with the families and friends of the victims who have  had their lives upended and forever altered by these heinous acts.

We will not bend to intimidation or fear, and we refuse to tolerate  the actions of those who would seek to usurp the will of the people and  their representatives, advancing their own twisted agendas through  violence and bloodshed.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage each of our colleagues to support this  resolution, and I yield back the balance of my time.