DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 707, I call up  the bill (H.R. 4922) to limit youth offender status in the District of  Columbia to individuals 18 years of age or younger, to direct the  Attorney General of the District of Columbia to establish and operate a  publicly accessible website containing updated statistics on juvenile  crime in the District of Columbia, to amend the District of Columbia  Home Rule Act to prohibit the Council of the District of Columbia from  enacting changes to existing criminal liability sentences, and for  other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 4922, a bill providing commonsense  reforms to the District of Columbia criminal code.

It is clear to Members of the committee and the public that D.C.'s  soft-on-crime policies have failed to keep D.C. residents and visitors  safe.

The DC CRIMES Act overturns targeted portions of the D.C. Council's  Youth Rehabilitation Act by amending the definition of a ``youth  offender'' from a person under the age of 25 to under the age of 18.

Let me emphasize Washington, D.C.'s current law. Currently, D.C. code  allows a criminal under the age of 25 to be given the same leniency  that is afforded to minors. This bill requires that we treat adult  criminals as adults, like the rest of the country. It also removes  judicial discretion to sentence youth offenders under the minimum  sentencing structures in place.

Our Capital cannot continue to let criminals freely roam the streets  and expect this crime crisis to end.

As juvenile crime soars in the District, the bill also requires the  D.C. Attorney General to create a publicly available website that  better tracks juvenile crime data. This data will inform Congress, the  District's elected officials, the Metropolitan Police Department, the  public, and others of the severity of juvenile crimes in the city.

Citizens of D.C. and visitors to our Nation's Capital deserve to feel  safe.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Donalds) for  leading this effort again in this Congress, and I encourage my  colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.

Mr. COMER.  Boebert).

Mr. COMER.  Hageman).

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this  commonsense legislation to ensure that citizens of Washington, D.C.,  and the many visitors to our Nation's Capital feel safe.