District of Columbia Federal Immigration Compliance Act of 2025


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 489, I call up  the bill (H.R. 2056) to require the District of Columbia to comply with  federal immigration laws, and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2056, the District of Columbia  Federal Immigration Compliance Act.

The House Oversight Committee has held multiple hearings on the  failings of the Biden-Harris administration to secure our borders and  protect our citizens. In March, the committee heard from sanctuary city  mayors, who offered carefully crafted, lawyerly statements defending  their decisions not to work with the Trump administration as it works  to remove criminal aliens as quickly as possible.

At the end of the day, illegal alien criminals who threaten our  communities have no right to be here in the first place. State and  local governments must work with the Department of Homeland Security to  share information on individuals they arrest. They must also honor  lawful detainers. When they do not, Congress must act.

H.R. 2056 ensures that the District of Columbia cooperates with  Federal immigration agencies, including ICE, to protect our citizens  and nullifies prior attempts by the District to make itself a sanctuary  city.

Mr. COMER.  Greene).

Mr. COMER.  Greene).

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I might add that the gentleman that the  gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene) was referencing is the same  gentleman that two members of the House Oversight Committee requested  authorization travel to go down to El Salvador and defend. I think that  she was very factual in everything she said, especially her criticism.

Mr. Speaker, President Trump's electoral mandate includes his promise  to the American people that Republicans would resolve the criminal  illegal alien crisis across our Nation.

This bill is a necessary step in ensuring our Nation's Capital is an  ally, not an opponent, in the fight to end this crisis.

Specifically, H.R. 2056 represents an important step in codifying  President Trump's executive order on making the District of Columbia  safe and beautiful by directly supporting the directive for enhanced  coordination between the Federal Government and law enforcement  regarding illegal aliens.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage each of my colleagues to support this  critical legislation sponsored by Mr. Higgins.