District of Columbia Policing Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695642/district-of-columbia-policing-protection-act


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 707, I call up  the bill (H.R. 5143) to establish standards for law enforcement  officers in the District of Columbia to engage in vehicular pursuits of  suspects, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate  consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support H.R. 5143, the District of  Columbia Policing Protection Act of 2025. This bill repeals subtitle S  of the Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act of 2022  and replaces it with policies empowering police to pursue a suspect  fleeing in a vehicle.

The 2022 act imposes burdensome restrictions on police pursuit of  criminal suspects. This has resulted in less justice for victims of  crime in Washington, D.C., and more opportunities for criminals, who  would otherwise be apprehended, to continue harming D.C. and  surrounding communities.

This bill replaces subtitle S with policies that allow for vehicular  pursuit of a suspect fleeing in a motor vehicle if the officer or  supervisor deems it necessary, the most effective means of  apprehension, and without unreasonable risk to bystanders.

I thank Representative Clay Higgins for his leadership on this  critical local policing reform legislation, and I urge my colleagues to  support his bill.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from  Representative Min that clarifies that he meant to vote ``yes'' on H.R.  5143 in committee.                                      Congress of the United States,                                        House of Representatives,                                 Washington, DC, September 15, 2025.      Chairman James Comer,      House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer: I am writing to respectfully clarify       my intent regarding a vote I cast during the House Oversight       and Government Reform full committee markup held on September       10, 2025. Because of miscommunication during the evening vote       series, my recorded vote on H.R. 5143, the District of       Columbia Policing Protection Act, does not reflect my       intended position.

For the record, I meant to vote ``Aye'' on the final       passage H.R. 5143, which repeals restrictions on the       circumstances under which law enforcement officers in the       District of Columbia may engage in vehicular pursuits. I ask       that this letter be included in the committee's official       record to reflect my intent.

Thank you for your understanding.            Sincerely,                                                          Dave Min,                                                Member of Congress.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this  commonsense legislation to allow police officers in the District of  Columbia to pursue and apprehend criminals to keep residents and  visitors in the District safe. I yield back the balance of my time.