Epstein Files Transparency Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696808/epstein-files-transparency-act


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, as chairman of the House Oversight Committee,  I have always believed that sunshine is the best disinfectant. For  years, the American people have demanded transparency about Jeffrey  Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell's horrific crimes and about the Federal  Government's failure to protect the victims.

The House Oversight Committee is conducting a thorough review of the  Federal Government's investigation into Epstein. Our work goes far  beyond the legislation before us today. We are committed to  accountability, transparency, and justice for the American people and  for the survivors of these appalling crimes.

To date, the Oversight Committee has released more than 65,000 pages  of documents, issued 13 subpoenas, and conducted interviews with two  key witnesses, both of whom were Republicans.

The Trump administration has provided us with Department of Justice  materials and access to suspicious activity reports. Unfortunately,  throughout this investigation, Democrats have chosen to manufacture yet  another anti-Trump hoax instead of pursuing justice. They have  mischaracterized witness testimony and selectively released documents,  complete with targeted redactions in an effort to smear President  Trump.

For example, former U.S. Attorney General Bill Barr, who oversaw the  2019 Epstein investigation, stated clearly under oath that the  prosecution team found no evidence that President Trump committed  wrongdoing.

Despite this simple and straightforward fact, Ranking Member  Robert  Garcia moments after that deposition, tiptoed out and publicly claimed  that ``Barr could not clear Trump of wrongdoing.''

That was a lie, and we have the transcript to prove it. I invite the  media to read the transcript.

When the Oversight Committee interviewed former U.S. Attorney for the  Southern District of Florida Alex Acosta, Democrats whipped themselves  into a frenzy trying to manufacture a ``gotcha'' moment, but they  failed.

Mr. Acosta dismantled the Democrats' narrative. His testimony  confirmed there was no contact between President Trump and Mr. Acosta  and no connection between President Trump in the Epstein case.

Next, Democrats resorted to selective leaks and doctored documents to  mislead the American people.

The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Republicans have  posted 65,000 pages of documents we have received to date. Democrats,  by contrast, have released fewer than one dozen.

In their latest selective leak, Democrats released just 3 of the  23,000 pages of documents from the Epstein estate, and they made  redactions to two of those emails that changed both the context and  meaning of the three pages they released.

When CNN called them out for their deceptive redactions,  Representatives Stansbury and Crockett tried to blame Republicans for  their own edits, for the Democrat Committee on Oversight and Government  Reform edits.

After Democrats released only 3 emails, Republicans released over  23,000 pages. What did Democrats say in response when we released every  single document that we got? They claimed full transparency was meant  to ``disorient'' or ``distract'' from their manufactured narrative.  These are the same Democrats who chanted ``release the files'' every  day--until the files contradict the story they want to tell. That is  the definition of hypocrisy.

In contrast, full transparency exposed how Epstein appears to be TDS  Patient Zero. The emails reveal that a journalist coached Epstein to  blackmail then-Presidential candidate Donald Trump.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, the files also show that a House Democrat  colluded with Epstein during the 2019 Committee on Oversight and  Government Reform hearing with a discredited witness with a vendetta  against President Trump. Unsurprisingly, Democrats have been silent  about their colleague's coordination with Epstein.

Another email shows Democrat fundraisers invited Epstein to an event  or to meet privately with Hakeem Jeffries as part of their 2013 effort  to win a majority. Hakeem Jeffries' campaign solicited money from  Jeffrey Epstein. That is what we found in the last document batch.

The files underscore why former President Bill Clinton must appear  for his deposition. We have subpoenaed him. To date, the Democrats have  done nothing to help us secure his appearance.

I support full transparency. The Committee on Oversight and  Government Reform will continue to work to get the truth to the  American people and to get justice for the victims. That is our goal of  this investigation.