Gerald E. Connolly Esophageal Cancer Awareness Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691831/gerald-e-connolly-esophageal-cancer-awareness-act-of-2025


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 3490) to require the Government Accountability Office to produce  a report on esophageal cancer, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3490

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Gerald E. Connolly       Esophageal Cancer Awareness Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds that--

(1) esophageal cancer is the fastest increasing cancer       among American men;

(2) esophageal cancer is one of the fastest growing cancer       diagnoses among all Americans, increasing more than 700       percent in recent decades;

(3) esophageal cancer kills 1 American every 36 minutes       every day;

(4) esophageal cancer is among the deadliest of cancers,       with only about 1 in 5 patients surviving 5 years;

(5) esophageal cancer has tripled in incidence among       younger Americans in recent decades;

(6) esophageal cancer has low survival rates because it is       usually discovered at advanced stages when treatment outcomes       are poor;

(7) raising awareness about esophageal cancer empowers       individuals to seek preventive care, recognize symptoms, and       pursue early detection strategies;

(8) survivors, caregivers, medical professionals, and       researchers have made tremendous strides in advancing       treatment options and improving the quality of life for those       affected by the disease;

(9) esophageal cancer can be prevented through early       detection of its precursor, Barrett's esophagus, which can be       eliminated with curative outpatient techniques;

(10) research indicates that patients diagnosed with early-      stage esophageal cancer have a significantly higher 5-year       survival rate (as high as 49 percent) compared to those       diagnosed at later stages, underscoring the critical need for       enhanced screening and awareness; and

(11) as of December 2022, the American Gastroenterological       Association recommends screening with a standard upper       endoscopy in individuals with 3 or more established risk       factors for Barrett's Esophagus and esophageal       adenocarcinoma, including--

(A) male sex;

(B) non-Hispanic white ethnicity;

(C) age of 50 years or older;

(D) a history of smoking, chronic gastrointestinal reflux       disease, or obesity; and

(E) a family history of Barrett's Esophagus or esophageal       adenocarcinoma.       SEC. 3. GAO REPORT.

Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of       this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall       submit a report to Congress that includes an evaluation of--

(1) the total impact of esophageal cancer-related health       care spending under the Federal Employee Health Benefits       Program for Federal employees and retirees diagnosed with       esophageal cancer; and

(2) how often individuals covered under the Federal       Employees Health Benefits Program with medical records       indicating such individuals are high-risk for esophageal       cancer undergo screening according to the established       guidelines.

Mr. Speaker, the House of Representatives has lost a true statesman.

Gerry Connolly was a father, a husband, friend, and a lifelong public  servant that dedicated his life to his constituents, his community, and  his country. I was deeply saddened to hear about his sudden passing.

From the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors to 16 years in the U.S.  House of Representatives, Gerry Connolly was a devoted public servant  from Virginia's 11th Congressional District.

In Congress, Gerry Connolly was a friend to many of us. He was  steadfast in fighting for what he believed in, but he was always  committed to bipartisanship where he thought we could agree.

Over his tenure on this committee, I am proud to say we cosponsored  eight bills together, including the Mail Traffic Deaths Reporting Act,  the FedRAMP Authorization Act, and the Federal AI Governance and  Transparency Act.

Mr. Speaker, I know I am not alone in that.

Many of my Republican committee colleagues found Gerry Connolly to be  a partner and a friend. I extend my condolences to his family and also  to the members of his staff. We lost our colleague after a short but  courageous fight against esophageal cancer, one of the deadliest and  fastest growing cancer diagnoses among Americans today.

The symptoms of this cancer are often overlooked or misdiagnosed,  leading to late detection and limited treatment options.

Through this legislation, we hope to raise awareness about esophageal  cancer to improve the odds for those who contract this disease. I am  proud to have joined Ranking Member Gerry Connolly in cosponsoring the  Gerald E. Connolly Esophageal Cancer Awareness Act and look forward to  working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on its passage  into law.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill  honoring the legacy of our friend and colleague, Gerry Connolly. I hope  that this legislation can shed some light on the impact of esophageal  cancer on Federal Government public servants.