Irrefutable Evidence


Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I have taken to the floor today to respond  to Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries calling me a ``stone-cold liar''  during a press conference defending the recent discovery of Democrats'  communication with convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein.

I bring with me something that he and many of his fellow Democrats-- Democrats like Jamie Raskin, Jasmine Crockett, and Stacey Plaskett-- apparently detest, which is a thing called evidence.

Tuesday, I gave a speech on the House floor detailing my House  Oversight Committee's good work to date on our Epstein investigation.  After all, Hakeem Jeffries, the Democrats in Congress, and their allies  in the corporate media have been demanding a full release of the  Epstein documents for months, including all the documents from the  Epstein estate.

Without hesitation, I subpoenaed all of the Jeffrey Epstein estate  documents because I, as well as my Republican colleagues on the House  Oversight Committee, want to know what really happened. We want to know  what went on and who was involved in these unspeakable crimes. We want  justice for the survivors. That is why we are doing this investigation.

The House Oversight Committee obtained over 30,000 pages of documents  from the estate. Unlike the Democrats, who only released 10 of those  over 30,000 pages of documents, Republicans on the House Oversight  Committee released every single document on the website for the  American people to see.

Democrats and many in the media were anxiously clutching their pearls  in anticipation of potential dirt on President Trump. In the end, after  full transparency by the Republicans on the Oversight Committee, there  was nothing new about the President's former relationship with Epstein  and certainly nothing scandalous. We did find two sitting Democrat  Members of Congress had communication with Epstein.

First, it has been highly reported and debated about Congresswoman  Stacey Plaskett texting during an Oversight Committee hearing with  Jeffrey Epstein, while trying to conspire with him to hurt or embarrass  Donald Trump. According to Jamie Raskin, that was okay because Mr.  Epstein was her constituent. How embarrassing a rationale is that?

The second communication was this email right here where Hakeem  Jeffries' campaign reached out directly to Jeffrey Epstein, soliciting  campaign dollars for the ``Brooklyn Barack.'' Now, whereas Jamie Raskin  explained Plaskett's communication with Epstein as simply responding to  a constituent, Hakeem Jeffries had a very different response when asked  about it by the media. He denied its existence. Hakeem Jeffries said  Comer is a stone-cold liar. Then he reverted to calling me names for  the second week in a row.

Let's read it to make sure. It is to Jeffrey Epstein. That is the  real Jeffrey Epstein, not Jasmine Crockett's Jeffrey Epstein. This is  the real Jeffrey Epstein. It is from Hakeem Jeffries' campaign.

Dear Jeffrey, we are thrilled that we are working with       Congressman Hakeem Jeffries, one of the rising stars of the       New York delegation, sometimes referred to as ``Brooklyn's       Barack.'' Hakeem is committed to electing a Democrat majority       in 2014 and is encouraging his friends to participate in the       DCCC fundraising dinner with President Obama and Hakeem       Jeffries.

It ends with a number for Jeffrey Epstein to call to go to the dinner  and ``get an opportunity to get to know Hakeem better.''

Here is the evidence. The email speaks for itself. The only stone- cold liar in this debate is Hakeem Jeffries.

Madam Speaker, I ask Mr. Minority Leader to take a deep breath, chill  out, stop lying, stop with the juvenile name calling, and own up to the  fact that his campaign solicited campaign cash from Jeffrey Epstein.