Mail Traffic Deaths Reporting Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688400/mail-traffic-deaths-reporting-act-of-2025


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 758) to direct the United States Postal Service to issue  regulations requiring Postal Service employees and contractors to  report to the Postal Service traffic crashes involving vehicles  carrying mail that result in injury or death, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 758

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Mail Traffic Deaths       Reporting Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REGULATIONS ON TRAFFIC CRASH DEATHS AND INJURIES                     INVOLVING VEHICLES TRANSPORTING MAIL.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the       Postmaster General of the Postal Service shall issue       regulations to require the collection, tracking, and public       reporting of information related to deaths and injuries       resulting from traffic crashes involving vehicles       transporting mail. Such regulations shall establish       appropriate mechanisms to monitor and enforce compliance with       the reporting requirements of this Act and may utilize       existing reporting mechanisms in use at the time of enactment       of this Act.

(b) Reports on Crashes.--

(1) Employees.--Any employee of the Postal Service engaged       in the transportation of mail shall report to the Postal       Service any traffic crash involving the vehicle the employee       was operating during such transportation that resulted in       injury or death not later than three days after such crash.

(2) Contractors.--Any contractor (of any tier) of the       Postal Service engaged in the transportation of mail shall       report to the Postal Service any traffic crash involving the       vehicle the contractor was operating during such       transportation that resulted in injury or death not later       than three days after such crash.

(3) Contents.--Any report submitted under paragraph (1) or       (2) shall include detailed information describing, at a       minimum, the crash, including the date, time, location,       nature of the crash, information identifying the contractor,       number of injuries, fatalities, and any contributing factors       to the crash. An employee or contractor (as the case may be)       shall update the report, in such form and manner as the       Postal Service deems appropriate, to reflect any change in       crash-caused injuries or fatalities.

(4) Accommodations in event of injury.--The Postal Service       shall provide for procedures under which reports may be       submitted under this subsection under an alternative deadline       in the event a Postal Service employee or contractor is       unable to submit a report due to serious injury resulting       from the applicable crash.

(5) Standard form.--The Postmaster General shall create a       standard form available to Postal Service employees and       contractors for the purposes of submitting reports under this       subsection.

(c) Database.--

(1) In general.--The Postal Service shall maintain a       continuously updated internal digital database that includes       comprehensive information related to deaths and injuries from       traffic crashes involving vehicles transporting mail.

(2) Contents.--The database shall include any information       provided by Postal Service employees and contractors under       subsection (b).

(d) Report.--

(1) In general.--The Postal Service shall make available to       the public an annual report summarizing information related       to deaths and injuries from traffic crashes involving       vehicles transporting mail.

(2) Contents.--The report shall include aggregated       statistics, trends, and analysis to enhance transparency and       accountability.

(3) Privacy.--Information in the report shall be made       available to the public in a manner that does not personally       identify any Postal Service employee, contractor, or any       other individual.

(e) Penalties.--Any Postal Service contractor who fails to       report a traffic crash within the deadline prescribed under       subsection (b) shall be subject to appropriate penalties as       determined appropriate by the Postal Service, including       fines, suspension of contracts, or termination of contracts.       The Postal Service may take into account the severity of the       applicable traffic crash and the frequency of noncompliance       with the requirements of this Act by the applicable Postal       Service contractor when determining which penalty to apply       (if any).

(f) Crash Defined.--In this Act, the term ``crash''--

(1) means an occurrence involving a commercial motor       vehicle operating on a highway in interstate or intrastate       commerce which results in--

(A) a fatality;

(B) bodily injury to a person who, as a result of the       injury, immediately receives medical treatment away from the       scene of the accident; or

(C) one or more motor vehicles incurring disabling damage       as a result of the accident, requiring at least one of the       motor vehicle to be transported away from the scene by a tow       truck or other motor vehicle; and

(2) does not include--

(A) an occurrence involving only boarding and alighting       from a stationary motor vehicle; or

(B) an occurrence involving only the loading or unloading       of cargo.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 758, which requires U.S.  Postal Service employees and contractors to report to the Postal  Service traffic crashes that result in injury or death.

In 2023, The Wall Street Journal published an article alleging that  the Postal Service contracted with low-cost trucking companies that did  not follow highway safety regulations.

They also reported that postal contractors have been involved in car  crashes that have killed 79 people in the last 3 years.

To conduct oversight of this important topic, Congress needs to be  informed.

The Mail Traffic Deaths Reporting Act requires the Postal Service to  report to Congress any traffic crashes that result in injury or death.

Under the bill, Postal Service employees and contractors will have 3  days to report a traffic accident to the Postal Service.

These reports will include, at minimum, the date, time, location,  nature of the crash, information identifying the contractor, and number  of injuries and fatalities.

The Postal Service will maintain a comprehensive internal digital  database of this information. The Postal Service is also required to  compile a publicly available report summarizing annual stats related to  injuries and deaths from traffic accidents.

I thank Representative Connolly, the ranking member of the House  Oversight Committee, for working to partner with me on this necessary  legislation.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, the Postal Service is tasked with the  challenging job of providing fast, reliable mail service nationwide.  While they do so, their safety should be prioritized.

I encourage all my colleagues to support this commonsense bill that  increases transparency into the Postal Service's safety record to  improve the public safety throughout our Nation. I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.