Recognizing Dave Baker


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701346/recognizing-dave-baker


Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize my good friend and  First Congressional District of Kentucky resident, Dave Baker, upon his  retirement from the University of Kentucky Sports Network after 37  years.

Dave ``Buzz'' Baker began his career at WKYT in Lexington as an  intern and was hired full time upon his graduation from Georgetown  College in 1982.

Dave and his lovely wife, Donna, reside in Frankfort and attend  church with me and my family at Forks of Elkhorn Baptist in Midway,  Kentucky.

Dave began working Southeastern Conference events in 1993 and has  been a constant presence on the SEC Network and other University of  Kentucky televised events ever since calling men's and women's  basketball, baseball, softball, and volleyball.

Buzz Baker is a Kentucky sports legend who has always been and will  continue to be a force in what we in the Bluegrass State call Big Blue  Nation.             Mission of Oversight and Government Reform Committee

Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise to give an update on the work that  the House Oversight Committee has been doing recently. I want to remind  everyone that our mission on the Oversight and Government Reform  Committee is to identify waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in the  Federal Government.

We have been going State by State and focusing on identifying massive  fraud in the Federal welfare programs administered by poorly run  States.

We began in Minnesota. We worked with nine whistleblowers. These  whistleblowers were career State employees who came forward, and I hope  that whistleblowers in other States saw how we treated those  whistleblowers. We protected the whistleblowers.

We sat down with the whistleblowers. We interviewed them. We did  transcribed interviews and took their testimony to produce a report to  build our case to help with the Department of Justice's ongoing  investigation in Minnesota on the welfare fraud.

What we concluded after bringing in people who were State employees  in Minnesota who had been ringing the bell on fraud there for many  years, we concluded that both Attorney General Keith Ellison and  Minnesota Governor Tim Walz knew about the massive amounts of fraud in  the welfare programs in Minnesota, yet did nothing about it, and in  some instances, retaliated against the State employees who did the  right thing and came forward.

Now we have moved our investigation into California, and we are  focusing on a massive hospice fraud scheme--hospice of all things. This  is a program I think every Member of Congress supports. Hospice is who  we call in our deepest, darkest times of need.

We have zeroed in on one particular area in California: Los Angeles  County. A recent audit revealed over $3.5 billion in hospice fraud  primarily in one county: Los Angeles County.

What we found in Los Angeles County is that 18 percent of the total  bill for the Federal Government for hospice in America went to one  county. You had thousands of people registered as hospice providers  billing hospice for hundreds and hundreds of patients that no one can  find.

We are going to continue to work with auditors. We hope that  whistleblowers will come forward in California like they did in  Minnesota, and we are going to try to identify this and hopefully work  with authorities in Minnesota who have prosecuted over two dozen people  already in Minnesota for fraud.

We are serious on the House Oversight Committee, the Republicans are,  about doing something about the massive amounts of fraud we are seeing.  We want to get the backs of the American taxpayer. The hardworking  taxpayers who work hard every day and send their tax dollars here to  Washington are frustrated that we are losing so much money to fraud. We  are going to do something about it.