Removing Restrictions From A Parcel of Land in Paducah, Kentucky


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697652/removing-restrictions-from-a-parcel-of-land-in-paducah-kentucky


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my bill,  H.R. 1276, to remove restrictions from a parcel of land in Paducah,  Kentucky.

It is an honor to serve the people of Paducah and McCracken County in  Congress. One of their community's most impactful institutions, the  Oscar Cross Boys & Girls Club has been a cornerstone of support and  opportunity for local youth for over 60 years.

The club is located on land currently owned by the city of Paducah,  which has held the property since 2012. For over 60 years, the Oscar  Cross Boys & Girls Club has been a force for good in Paducah and has  had a positive impact on thousands of children who have come through  its doors.

Today, the club is facing unprecedented demand. More than 100  children are currently on the waiting list due to space constraints in  the existing facility.

Unfortunately, lingering Federal interest in the property dating back  to the city's involvement in the Federal Lands to Parks Program decades  ago has impeded progress on an exciting renovation project for the  local Boys & Girls Club.

Despite strong local support from the city of Paducah and community  members, this Federal restriction has hampered efforts to raise funds  and begin the renovation process.

H.R. 1276 is a straightforward, commonsense bill that would lift this  outdated restriction and allow the city to fully transfer the land to  the Oscar Cross Boys and Girls Club. There is no time to waste in  making this commonsense fix to enable this project to move forward.

I was proud to collaborate with the city of Paducah, the National  Park  Service, and local stakeholders to develop a legislative solution to  this issue. It ensures that the Federal Government's unnecessary  involvement no longer stands in the way of progress for the children of  Paducah and McCracken County.

I thank Senator Paul for introducing the Senate companion bill, S.  601, and Senator McConnell for being an original cosponsor of that  legislation. I look forward to working with them to get this bill  across the finish line and onto President Trump's desk.

I also thank Chairman Westerman for his support and I urge passage of  H.R. 1276.