Safe and Smart Federal Purchasing Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688342/safe-and-smart-federal-purchasing-act


Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 856) to require the Director of the Office of Management and  Budget conduct a review to determine the impact of the lowest price  technically acceptable source selection process on national security,  and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 856

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Safe and Smart Federal       Purchasing Act''.       SEC. 2. REVIEW TO DETERMINE THE IMPACT OF THE LOWEST PRICE                     TECHNICALLY ACCEPTABLE SOURCE SELECTION PROCESS                     ON NATIONAL SECURITY.

(a) Review.--The Director shall review the procurement       management practices of Defense and Civilian agencies to       determine whether the provisions of section 15.101-2 of the       Federal Acquisition Regulation have created any national       security risk.

(b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the enactment of       this Act, the Director shall submit a report on the results       of the review under subsection (a) to--

(1) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the       House of Representatives; and

(2) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental       Affairs of the Senate.

(c) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Defense and civilian agency.--The term ``Defense and       Civilian agency'' has the meaning given the term ``agency''       in section 133 of title 41, United States Code.

(2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of       the Office of Management and Budget.

Mr. Speaker, the lowest price technically acceptable, LPTA, is a  source selection method outlined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

This process uses price as a determining factor for a contract rather  than other technical or operational factors.

Following legislative work done by the House Oversight Committee  during the 115th Congress, constraints were placed on agency use of the  LPTA in the fiscal year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act.

These constraints recognize that the LPTA criteria are not always  appropriate for agencies seeking complex or technically innovative  services.

For instance, this can result in agencies sacrificing long-term value  for short-term savings. We also do not want the LPTA to be used in a  manner that jeopardizes national security.

This bill requires the Director of the Office of Management and  Budget to evaluate this source selection process to determine whether  agencies are  using the LPTA in an appropriate manner.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, the Safe and Smart Federal Purchasing Act is  measured and targeted legislation that can inform future congressional  work on Federal procurement, a policy area we know is ripe for reform  and taxpayer savings.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my House colleagues to support this  commonsense, bipartisan bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.