Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, the American people are apprehensive about  the spread of the coronavirus in the United States and abroad, as we  can always remember. Global financial markets are on edge. Both are  resilient, but vigorous action, I believe, is needed to calm nerves,  stabilize the situation, and get our arms around this crisis. I believe  Congress must marshal the resources necessary for an aggressive,  comprehensive, and swift response. 

  I am pleased to report to my colleagues this afternoon that we, with  the House and leadership on both sides, have reached a bipartisan,  bicameral agreement on an emergency supplemental appropriations package  to do just that. The agreement provides a surge in funding at every  level, as I have advocated for--local, State, Federal, and  international--to meet the growing challenge that we face. 

  The total amount included in the package is $7.76 billion, a little  under $8 billion. We arrived at that figure by going back to the  agencies--the NIH, the Centers for Disease Control, and so forth. We  asked: What do you need? What do you think you would need if this virus  really spreads? We wanted to make sure that they had the tools and the  resources and that we would not shortchange the American people in any  way. 

  So the $7.76 billion, we have been told by the people who know,  should be sufficient. We hope it is. Nearly 85 percent of this funding  will be spent right here in the United States--85 percent. And $2.2  billion is for the Centers for Disease Control, which the Presiding  Officer is very familiar with because it is located in Atlanta, GA,  including, no less than $950 million--just short of a billion--to help  States and local governments prevent and combat the spread of the  virus. 

  Now, $836 million will go to the National Institutes of Health to,  among other things, train healthcare workers on the frontlines and to  develop diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines related to the virus.  And $61 million will support the Food and Drug Administration's role in  approving such products for the American people. 

  Now, $3.1 billion of this package is for the Public Health and Social  Services Emergency Fund, among other things, to supplement the  Strategic National Stockpile here; to develop and purchase diagnostics,  therapeutics, and vaccines; to provide resources for community health  centers; and to help hospitals and help systems adapt and respond if  this crisis grows. 

  Another $300 million is made available for the purchase of additional  diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines, should further need arise--in  other words, a contingency. 

  Finally, to fight the spread of the virus abroad, which we have to  do, $1.25 billion is provided to the State Department and USAID to  continue their work with our international partners. 

  We have listened carefully to the agencies and the experts on the  frontlines in crafting this package. Vice President Pence has also been  very helpful in this effort, and I appreciate President Trump's  eagerness to sign this legislation. 

  I also take a moment to thank Leaders McConnell and Schumer, Vice  Chairman Leahy of the Appropriations Committee, Chairwoman Lowey, chair  of the House Appropriations Committee, and Ranking Member Granger for  all of us coming together to do the right thing for the American  people. 

  We face this crisis together. We are fighting it together.  Ultimately, I believe we will prevail together, but now is the time for  action. The House will act first. All indications are they will pass it  swiftly--this package. I hope so. 

  When this package arrives in the Senate, I would urge my colleagues  to do the same so we can get help to those who need it and ease some of  the anxiety stemming from this outbreak. I think we owe it to the  American people to do no less. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT