Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, over the past 2 weeks, my colleagues and I  have patiently listened to arguments from both the House managers and  the President's counsel right here in the Senate regarding a grave  allegation from the House that the President has committed an act  worthy of impeachment. 

  As a Senator, I believe that the first and perhaps most important  consideration is whether abuse of power and obstruction of Congress are  impeachable offenses as asserted by our House managers. 

  Impeachment is a necessary and essential component of our  Constitution. It serves as an important check on civil officers who  commit crimes against the United States. However, our Founding Fathers  were wise to ensure that the impeachment and the  conviction of a sitting President would not be of partisan intent.  Since President Trump took office, many have sought to delegitimize his  Presidency with partisan attacks. We have heard this right here in the  Senate, and we have experienced it. This extreme effort to unseat the  President, I believe, is unjustified and intolerable. 

  Now that the Senate has heard and studied the arguments from both  sides, I believe the lack of merit in the House managers' case is  evident. The outcome of the impeachment trial is a foregone conclusion.  Acquittal is the judgment the Senate should and, I believe, will  render--and soon. 

  For my part, I have weighed the House managers' case and found it  wanting in fundamental aspects. I will try to explain. 

  I believe that their case does not allege an impeachable offense.  Even if the facts are as they have stated, the managers have failed, I  believe, as a matter of constitutional law, to meet the exceedingly  high bar for removal of the President as established by our Founding  Fathers, the Framers of the Constitution. 

  In their wisdom, the Framers rejected vague grounds for impeachment-- offenses like we have heard here, ``maladministration''--for fear that  it would, in the words of Madison, result in a Presidential ``tenure  during [the] pleasure of the Senate.'' 

  ``Abuse of power,'' one of the charges put forward here by the House  managers, is a concept as vague and susceptible to abuse, I believe, as  ``maladministration.'' If you take just a minute or two to look at the  definitions of ``abuse'' and ``mal,'' they draw distinct similarities.  ``Mal,'' a prefix of Latin origin, means bad, evil, wrong. ``Abuse,''  also of Latin origin, means to wrongly use or to use for a bad effect.  There is a kinship between ``mal'' and ``abuse.'' 

  As the Framers rejected in their wisdom ``maladministration,'' I  believe that they, too, would reject the noncriminal ``abuse of  power.'' Instead, the Framers, as the Presiding Officer knows, provided  for impeachment only in a few limited cases: treason, bribery, and high  crimes and misdemeanors. Only those offenses justify taking the dire  step of removing a duly elected President from office and permanently  taking his name off the ballot. 

  This institution, the U.S. Senate, I believe, should not lower the  constitutional bar and authorize their theory of impeachment for abuse  of power. It is simply not an impeachable offense, in my judgment.  Their criteria for removal centers not on the President's actions but  on their loose perception of his motivations. If the Senate endorses  this approach, we will dramatically transform the impeachment power as  we have known it over the years. We will forever turn this grave  constitutional power into a tool for adjudicating policy disputes and  political disagreements among all of us. The Framers, in their wisdom,  cautioned us against this dangerous path, and I believe the Senate will  heed their warning. 

  The other article, the House managers' obstruction of Congress claim,  is similarly flawed. Congress's investigative and oversight powers are  critical tools, and we use them in ensuring our system of checks and  balances. But those powers are not absolute. 

  The President, too, as head of a coequal branch of government, enjoys  certain privileges and immunities from congressional factfinding. That  is his constitutional right and has been the right of former Presidents  from both parties. The President's mere assertion of privileges and  immunities is not an impeachable offense. Endorsing otherwise would be  unprecedented and would ignore the past practices of administrations of  both parties. Adopting otherwise would drastically undermine the  separation of powers enshrined in our Constitution. 

  This was not what our Framers intended. Nowhere in the Constitution  or in the Federal statute is abuse of power or obstruction of Congress  listed as a crime--nowhere. What constitutes an impeachable offense is  not left to the discretion of the Congress. We cannot expand, I  believe, on the scope of actions that could be deemed impeachable  beyond that which the Framers intended. 

  What we really have here, I believe, is nothing more than the abuse  of the power of impeachment itself by the Democratic House. Doesn't our  country deserve better? The President certainly deserves better. 

  Today I am proud to stand and repudiate those very weak impeachment  efforts, and I will accordingly vote to acquit the President on both  articles. 

  My hope is that, in the future, Congress will reject this episode  and, instead, choose to be guided by the Constitution and the words  from our Framers. 

  Basically, I believe it is a time to move on. We know that the  American economy is booming. The United States is projecting strength  and promoting peace abroad. The President is unbowed. I believe the  American people see all of this. At the end of the day, the ultimate  judgment rests in their hands. In my judgment, that is just as it  should be. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT