Senate Passes Critical Bipartisan Legislation to Address National Coronavirus Crisis


The U.S. Senate today passed H.R.748, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which contains $339.855 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations to aid Americans during the coronavirus crisis.  The comprehensive relief package was advanced in the Senate by a vote of 96-0 and will now move to the House of Representatives for consideration.  Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) issued the following statement on the legislation:

 "I am pleased that we have finally been able to advance these resources and help protect Americans throughout the country.  This legislation will aid those on the front lines of this crisis, whether that be workers, families, small businesses, or health care providers putting their lives at risk.  Delivering much-needed assistance during this unprecedented time of need will help us overcome the current economic and public health emergency we're facing.  I thank my colleagues for their work to pass this bill and am hopeful our House colleagues will swiftly do the same.  Time is of the essence." 

 The emergency supplemental appropriations portion of the legislation brings to bear the full resources of the federal government, including $117 billion for hospitals and veterans' health care; $11 billion for vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, and other preparedness needs; $4.3 billion for the Centers for Disease Control; $16 billion for the Strategic National Stockpile; and $45 billion for FEMA disaster relief fund, among other things.  More than 80 percent of the total funding provided in the coronavirus emergency supplemental appropriations division of the package will go directly to state and local governments.

 The comprehensive CARES Act will provide financial assistance to the American people, provide urgent relief for small businesses and their employees, take significant steps to stabilize our economy and protect jobs, and support the brave healthcare professionals and patients who are fighting the coronavirus on the front lines.