Shelby: Army Selects Anniston Army Depot as De-processing Site for AMPV Program


U.S. Senator Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) today announced that the U.S. Army has selected Anniston Army Depot as the de-processing site for the Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle (AMPV) program. "The Army's decision to select Anniston Army Depot to serve as the de-processing site for the AMPV program is excellent news for the Depot and the entire Anniston area," said Senator Shelby.  "This project will have a positive impact on the Depot, creating jobs and bringing additional work.  I look forward to the implementation of this program and the economic growth it will bring to Anniston." De-processing for Army combat vehicles is a step that occurs prior to fielding vehicles for the first time.  Each vehicle is sent from the production facility to a dedicated location to complete any required software and hardware updates; conduct a road test; consolidate technical manuals, spare parts, and test equipment; and stage vehicles for final shipment to the unit.  In early 2019, the project manager for Mounted Armored Vehicles (PM MAV) evaluated potential de-processing locations, including Army National Guard and multiple U.S. Army installations where Program Executive Office (PEO) Ground Combat Systems already had an established Armored Brigade Combat Team (ABCT) footprint.  Following all necessary evaluations, Anniston Army Depot was selected based on the Depot's demonstration of overall lower execution risk and a better ability to adapt to changing Army requirements than the other sites.  Approximately 30 jobs are expected to be created at the Depot over the next 18 months to run the de-processing facility and support this effort, which will last anywhere between 10 to 15 years. The AMPV provides significant improvement in ballistic protection and is on-track for closing operational gaps the Army sees in force protection.  The vehicle has proven through operational and developmental testing to be more effective and survivable than the thousands of M113s it is replacing.