-9999


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, when Iran's proxies launched a full- scale war on Israel, October 7, 2023, President Biden pledged an  unwavering commitment to Israel's security. That was the right message  in the moment.

But as I warned publicly at the time, Israel needed more than just  rhetorical solidarity. Like Ukraine, Israel needed precious time, space  to maneuver, and materiel support to defeat a shared enemy. And yet, as  in Ukraine, America's commitment has indeed wavered. Our support has  not been ironclad.

Instead, under the previous administration, American support was  delayed, restricted, and paired with attempts to micromanage Israel's  operations and even interfere with Israeli politics. And at every turn,  the progressive left and isolationist right hyperventilated about the  specter of so-called forever war.

Fortunately, Israel held its ground. Israelis certainly weren't  enthused about a ground war in Gaza. Their leaders knew that war would  be difficult. But they knew it was unavoidable so long as Hamas  terrorists still refused to release its hostages. They also knew  lasting security meant changing Iran's calculus, not just responding to  attacks from proxies.

So Israel decided to turn Iran's terrorist assets into liabilities.  Despite the pearl-clutching here in Washington, our allies  simultaneously decapitated Hezbollah and crippled Hamas. Their bold  operations created a new opportunity for Lebanon to claw back its  sovereignty from a terrorist state within a state.

Meanwhile, the collapse of the brutal Assad regime in Syria brought  down a Russian vassal and Iran's favorite corridor of weapons and  terrorist finance.

These are the circumstances President Trump inherited. What to do  with them has been the subject of quite some debate. Some of his  advisers and supporters came with Obama-Biden-era talking points, ready  to urge him to continue his predecessor's policy of constraining  Israel. Some had argued publicly that America had no vital or  existential interests in the Middle East or claimed the region was a  distraction from other priorities. They warned of forever war.

Some seemed to push for nuclear negotiations with parameters eerily  similar to the nuclear deal the President withdrew from his first term.  They even proposed Iran could keep enriching uranium, until the  President, rightly, correctly, quashed that idea.

These mixed messages emboldened Iran and its proxies. After all, why  give up if administration officials saw the Middle East as little more  than a distraction or if they seem as fearful of restoring deterrence  as the previous guys?

So Hamas kept holding hostages. The Houthis kept targeting Israel and  Red Sea commerce. And the Islamic Republic kept marching toward a  nuclear weapon. And in response, Israel took the next logical step to  restore deterrence.

Once again, innovative and decisive strikes destroyed Iran's air  defenses and imposed immediate--immediate--costs on Tehran. Leaders  across Israel's politics stood united behind the daring operations.

Ah, but here in America, the same restrainers, anti-Israel  progressives, and self-proclaimed realists warned again of regional  conflagration if the President intervened alongside or even supported  Israel's strikes.

The President's own--his own--Director of National Intelligence  traveled to Hiroshima to record a bizarre video, not as a warning  against Tehran's nuclear ambitions but presumably against American or  Israeli operations to blunt them.

Now, fortunately, the President rejected the pleas of appeasers and  isolationists. The strikes he ordered dealt a massive blow to Iran's  nuclear program, bolstered American credibility, and strengthened U.S.  and Israel leverage to end Iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons and its  support for terrorism for good.

Thanks to Israel's historic efforts for more than a year and a half,  Iran's ability to threaten regional stability is massively degraded.  Not since before the Islamic Revolution has there been such an  opportunity for America, Israel, and our Arab partners to reset  regional dynamics on such favorable terms.

Achieving it has required no large-scale deployment of U.S. ground  forces. It required only supporting our friends. Israel is a close ally  and a strategic asset, not a liability. And the strategic return on our  investment in assisting Israel is incalculable. Standing with our  Israeli friends offers a powerful lesson about American leadership, the  value of alliances and partnerships, and the real nature of peace  through strength.

And this lesson extends far, far beyond the Middle East.

If America refuses to apply it elsewhere--like Ukraine--we do so at  grave risk to our own interests. But that is  exactly what some in Washington seem to be doing.

Congress recently learned that a senior DOD official conducted a  review of DOD security assistance efforts and--listen to this-- concluded that the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative, among other  programs, was wasteful. This is a Republican administration panning a  program created by the Republican Congress in 2015 to counter President  Obama's toothless response to Russia's initial invasion of Ukraine.

I would like to see the analysis behind the administration's decision  to zero out USAI in its fiscal 2026 request. I would like to hear them  try to explain away the massive return on investment of America's  security assistance to Ukraine and the previous lessons we have learned  from our Ukrainian partners.

The Secretary of the Army has, rightly, called Ukraine--listen to  this--``the Silicon Valley of warfare.'' Do his colleagues at the  Pentagon think this assessment is wrong or do they just not think  access to cutting-edge, modern combat is valuable?

Well, here is the truth: USAI and other security efforts have helped  us, measurably, address shortcomings in strategy, capabilities, and  production capacity that would have gone ignored until it was too late.

It is an inconvenient reality for isolationists and restrainers, but  for a tiny percent--a tiny percent--of our defense budget, we helped a  smaller military resist invasion by a vastly larger one and degrade a  major U.S. adversary.

As with Israel, Ukraine is fighting an adversary of the United  States. Our support does not entangle us in a far-off foreign conflict.  For Russia, Iran, China, North Korea, America is the main enemy, the  Great Satan. If these adversaries beat our friends, the threat to  America becomes a thousand times greater. We should be grateful for  friends so willing to defend our collective interests against common  folks.

Partnership with Ukraine is teaching us what modern warfare could  mean for U.S. forces when they do face direct conflict. It has tested  our assumptions about munitions inventories, expenditure rates,  electronic warfare, and the duration of conflict.

Without Ukraine's experience with U.S. weapons, we would have been  surprised to find some advanced systems quickly rendered inoperable on  future battlefields. The money we invest in USAI on weapons for Ukraine  expands our own production capacity in the process and will improve the  quality of our own munitions.

Supplemental appropriations on Ukraine and Israel, in turn, backfill  our own stocks with brand new capabilities--not just 155-mm rounds but  air defenses and long-range fires, with specific investment in solid  rocket motors.

These investments help us prepare for conflict in the Indo-Pacific,  and production would be slower in the absence of our partnership with  Ukraine. Not doing more to address our growing defense needs isn't a  failure of foresight. It is a failure of political will.

Everyone wants to see an end to Russia's war in Ukraine, but the  price of peace matters. If we want enduring stability in Europe, we  can't fall for an illusory peace. We should know enough history not to  dismiss this as merely ``a quarrel in a faraway country, between two  people of whom we no nothing.''

It is a major war of conquest in Europe--the most significant since  the days of Nazi Germany--and allies and adversaries half a world away  are watching it closely for clues about America's resolve.

Certainly, Europe's deepening commitments to collective defense will  make real peace more enforceable. The President's insistence has driven  much of this progress. Putin's brutality has reinforced it.

Since 2022, our European NATO allies have made historic--historic-- investments in defense, often buying from us. Many are preparing to  make even larger commitments at this week's NATO summit. All of that is  good news. But we can't expect allies to continue signing up for 3.5  and 5 percent commitments if America insists on falling further behind.

Likewise, we can't expect Putin to end his aggression if he thinks  America's abandonment of Ukraine is just a matter of time. And we can't  expect anyone to take America's threats and commitments seriously if we  are content to let our own strength atrophy.

A base budget request that cuts defense spending in real terms  doesn't show Moscow we are serious, let alone Beijing. Leading from  behind would be bad enough, but this is just plain falling behind.

The strongest deterrence is denying an adversary's objectives through  military means. Israel is restoring this deterrence in the Middle East.  Ukraine is achieving it by holding its own against Russia, but it needs  help.

Recently, I have asked administration officials simple questions,  like: Who is the aggressor in the conflict?

The answer is pretty obvious. But a second, equally simple question  seems to actually trip them up: Who do we want to win? Who do we want  to win?

The President made the right call to stand with Israel. I hope he  will also decide to stand with Ukraine, prevent Russian victory, and  start reversing a dangerous downward trend in our defense budgets.

I hope he will recognize Russia's attempt to ``tap him along'' for  what it is. Putin is getting mixed messages from us. He thinks he has  time. He believes the West is weak and divided.

But the President, at very little cost, can shatter that illusion. It  is time to impose sanctions, raise the price of Russia's aggression,  redouble security assistance to Ukraine, and drive the Kremlin to seek  peace. It is time for deterrence through denial.

There is no surer path to a just and enduring peace, no better way to  demonstrate that peace through strength actually means something, no  clearer sign to allies and adversaries watching closely, from the  Western Hemisphere to the Indo-Pacific, that America still has the will  to lead.