-9999


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the original  intent of the 2018 farm bill's Federal hemp legislation and the need to  restore it.

Earlier this year, a report from the University of Kentucky found  that cannabis-related poisonings among Kentuckians under 18 rose by 43  percent between 2023 and 2024. As you can see here, emergency room  visits are rising steadily as well: ``Cannabis-Related Emergency  Department Visits Climb in Kentucky, Especially Among [Young People].''

Calls to poison control centers in Kentucky regarding cannabis have  doubled in the last 5 years, and more than 40 percent--listen to this-- have been about children under 12.

Children all over the Commonwealth, from Laurel County to Jefferson  County, are facing serious health and safety concerns due to THC  poisoning from hemp-derived products, and so are children all across  the country. It is not just a Kentucky problem.

How did we get here? Let's go back to the beginning.

Back in 2014, I lead the effort to secure pilot programs for  industrial hemp, and I led the effort to legalize the crop in 2018.  This industry has seen tremendous growth, especially in Kentucky. Hemp  is used in food, clothing, paper, plastic, and many of our consumer  products. Its versatility gave farmers hope for a new and profitable  cash crop.

Unfortunately, some companies looking to make a quick buck have been  exploiting a loophole in the 2018 farm bill by taking legal amounts of  THC from hemp and turning it into intoxicating substances. They take  these synthetic chemicals and use them as ingredients in appealing  snack and candylike products and distribute them in familiar packaging.

Here, it gives you an example of how these hemp-related, THC-related  factors are packaged in candy that looks very much like candy being  consumed by kids all over the country. This is, by definition, a real  problem.

Children love candy. They can recognize well-known brands of candy  before they can even read. As you can see from the chart that we were  just talking about, the packaging on these snacks is nearly identical  to Oreos, Doritos, or Skittles. Little do kids know that these products  are laced with intoxicating synthetic chemicals. Young children are  consuming these snacks thinking they are candy, not poison.

On top of that, these products are easily accessible and can be  purchased at convenience stores. Some of them are even more  intoxicating than actually smoking marijuana. Let me repeat that.  Products more potent than marijuana can be bought off the shelf of a  gas station.

Look, for years, I have called on the FDA to regulate these products.  They have not taken the initiative to do so, which has certainly been  an ongoing disappointment.

That is why we are here today. The language I recently attempted to  secure in the Agriculture appropriations bill would have kept these  products out of the hands of children while preserving the hemp  industry for farmers.

For the sake of those misguided by my opponents on this issue, let me  clarify a few things: You will hear from some that this language would  have meant the total destruction of the hemp industry. Well, obviously,  that is wrong. Under my language, industrial hemp, and CBD would have  remained legal, period. Period.

Some predicted there would be widespread economic downturn to farmers  should this language become law. Wrong again.

Hemp makes up less than one-hundredth of 1 percent of all farmed  acres in the United States. I want the number to grow and to grow a  lot. That is why I secured the legalization of hemp production back in  the first place.

As long as I have been a Senator from Kentucky, I have supported our  farmers. I am proud to have served on the Agriculture Committee my  entire career in the Senate because of its importance to Kentucky. From  the tobacco buyout program to tax relief for the sale of farmland, I  have made sure our farmers have the tools they need to be successful in  volatile markets. My language would not have changed that.

This language would have remained in the appropriations package had  one Senator not derailed the process. You know, it is one thing to call  yourself an advocate for hemp farmers, but if you didn't support the  2014 pilot program and you didn't support the 2018 farm bill that  legalized hemp production and you would have blocked a major step  forward on this appropriations package if it had included my language  to close the bad-actor loophole, then what does being an advocate  actually mean?

This package funds a significant portion of the Federal revenue, from  Agencies that provide critical resources to our farmers to law  enforcement, military, and our veterans, just to name a few.

We need the appropriations process to function. Congress needs to do  its job and fund the government. And I, for  one, do not intend to be an obstacle. So in order to move the package  forward, I allowed my language to be stripped from the bill. But my  effort to rule out bad actors, protect our children, support farmers,  and reaffirm our original legislative intent will continue.