U.S. Senate Hallways and Balconies Regulations


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, pursuant to Senate Rule XXXIII, the  Committee on Rules and Administration adopted the U.S. Senate Hallways  and Balconies Regulations, on May 9, 2025, which supersede and replace  the current ``Display of Flags and State Senate Seals in Hallways  Outside Senator's Offices.''

The updated regulations include a new scope and definitions section,  updated language for unobstructed hallways and the display of flags,  and memorialize the renumbering and policies for the use of Senate  balconies.

Senate Hallways and Balconies Regulations   [Adopted by the Committee on Rules and Administration on May 9, 2025]

1.0 Scope--These regulations are applicable to all hallways       and balconies in the Senate Office Buildings and the Senate       wing of the Capitol.

2.0 Definitions--For purposes of these regulations, the       following terms have the meaning specified.

2.1 Balconies means the outdoor platforms attached to the       Senate Office Buildings and Senate wing of the Capitol that       are accessible by a window or door.

2.2 Capitol Superintendent means the Architect of the       Capitol's Capitol Superintendent's Office.

2.3 Committee office means the office of a standing,       select, or joint committee of the U.S. Senate.

2.4 Event space means any space the Rules Committee       authorizes to be reserved by a member office, committee       office, leadership office, or Senate support office for       Senate business related functions.

2.5 External support office means the office of an external       entity housed within Senate space that provides services to       the Senate, including federal government liaison offices,       independent government commissions, and non-government       entities such as contractors, credit unions, restaurants, and       other private service organizations.

2.6 Leadership office means the offices of the U.S. Senate       majority and minority leaders, majority and minority whips,       party conferences, and party policy committees.

2.7 Member office means the personal office of a U.S.       Senator.

2.8 Official signage means all temporary and permanent       signs in the Senate Office Buildings and Senate wing of the       Capitol.

2.9 Rules Committee means the U.S. Senate Committee on       Rules and Administration.

2.10 Senate offices means all member, committee,       leadership, Senate support, and external support offices       located in Senate space.

2.11 Senate Office Buildings means all space in the Russell       Senate Office Building, the Russell Courtyard, the Senate       garages, the Dirksen Senate Office Building, and the Hart       Senate Office Building.

2.12 Senate Superintendent means the Architect of the       Capitol Executive Director of Facilities Operations, Senate       Office Buildings.

2.13 Senate support office means the office of an internal       congressional entity that provides services to the Senate,       including the Architect of the Capitol, the Senate Sergeant       at Arms and Doorkeeper, the Secretary of the Senate, the       Office of the Attending Physician, Senate Legal Counsel, and       Senate Legislative Counsel.

2.14 Senate wing of the Capitol means all space on the       Senate side of the U.S. Capitol Building, including the       Senate side of the Capitol Visitor Center.

3.0 Senate Hallways--Any conditions or circumstances       pertaining to hallways not covered by the following       regulations must be submitted in writing to and approved by       the Rules Committee.

3.1 Unobstructed Hallways. All hallways in the Senate       Office Buildings and the Senate wing of the Capitol shall       remain unobstructed for security, accessibility, egress, and       other purposes. Displays, decorations, furniture, and signage       on walls, windows, doors, ceilings, floors, or in hallways       outside Senate offices, or facing the Hart Atrium or other       exterior spaces, are prohibited unless authorized by the       Rules Committee.

3.2 Official signage. The Senate Superintendent provides       the official signage in the Senate Office Buildings and the       Capitol Superintendent provides the official signage in the       Senate wing of the Capitol. All signage must be approved by       the Rules Committee.

3.3 Flags. Senate offices shall only display flags, at the       discretion of the highest-ranking official in that office, in       the hallway outside of the office's official reception room.       Senate support offices may also display flags outside of       department offices at the discretion of the highest-ranking       official in that office. All displayed flags must meet the       following conditions:

3.3.1 All flags displayed shall measure 3' x 5'. Senate       offices are responsible for providing all flags authorized       for display except the United States flag, which shall be       provided by the Senate Superintendent for the Senate Office       Buildings and the Capitol Superintendent for the Senate wing       of the Capitol.

3.3.2 Flagpoles, flagpole bases, and standard finials shall       be provided by the Senate Superintendent for the Senate       Office Buildings and the Capitol Superintendent for the       Senate wing of the Capitol.

3.3.3 Any flags displayed may not be commercial,       promotional, profit-making, or fund-raising in nature, or       those affiliated with political activities, including       political campaigns, political parties, or political action       committees.

3.3.4 For member, committee, and leadership offices located       in the Senate Office Buildings, a maximum of four flags may       be displayed: the United States flag and up to three       additional flags.

3.3.5 For committee and leadership offices located in the       Senate wing of the Capitol, a maximum of two flags may be       displayed: the United States flag and up to one additional       flag.

3.3.6 For Senate support offices located in the Senate       Office Buildings and the Senate wing of the Capitol, a       maximum of two flags may be displayed: the United States flag       and either the official Senate flag or the National League of       Families POW/MIA flag.

3.3.7 For external support offices located in the Senate       Office Buildings, only federal government liaison offices may       display the following flags: the United States flag, a flag       for each federal entity assigned to the office, and the       National League of Families POW/MIA flag.

3.3.8 For external support offices located in the Senate       wing of the Capitol, only federal government liaison offices       may display a maximum of two flags: the United States flag,       and either the flag for a federal entity assigned to the       office or the National League of Families POW/MIA flag.

4.0 Senate Balconies--Any conditions or circumstances       pertaining to balconies not covered by the following       regulations must be submitted in writing to and approved by       the Rules Committee.

4.1 Event space balconies. Any balcony attached to an event       space is reserved as a part of the event space and is       eligible for use during an event approved by the Rules       Committee.

4.2 Office balconies. The Rules Committee determines the       assignment of balconies, or sections of balconies, to member,       committee, leadership, Senate support, or external support       offices.

4.3 Balconies use requests. Requests to use a balcony       assigned to a member, committee, leadership, Senate support,       or external support office shall be made to the highest-      ranking official to whom the balcony is assigned.

4.4 Russell Rotunda balconies. Balconies located near and       around the rotunda of the Russell Senate Office Building may       be used under the following conditions:

4.4.1 Balcony 1 is reserved for use by Senators only.       Reservation requests can be submitted to the Rules Committee       for use Monday-Friday, 7 a.m. to 10 p.m., or at such times as       may be authorized by the Rules Committee.

4.4.2 Senators may submit requests to the Senate Radio-TV       Gallery to use balconies 2, 3, or 4 for official photographs.

4.4.3 Balconies 2, 3, and 4 are reserved for use by the       Senate Radio-TV Gallery daily from 6 a.m. to 12 a.m.